      MEMORANDUMAND RECOMMENDATIONOF THE PRESIDENT                               39683
         OF THE INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                    TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS ON A
   PROPOSEDWAIVER OFTWO CONDITIONSFORA RELEASEOF THE
   SECONDTRANCHE FORTHE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                        -GOVERNANCE
        STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDITNO. 3756-KG)



1.     The Government ofthe Kyrgyz Republic has made overall satisfactoryprogress
inimplementingthe Programsupportedbythe GovernanceStructural Adjustment Credit
(CreditNo. 3756-KG)andhas met all conditions for release o fthe secondtranche ofthe
Credit except for two, for which waivers are sought. Waivers are sought on the
conditionscontainedinparagraphs2 and 8 of Section I1o f Schedule2 of the
DevelopmentCredit Agreement (Credit No. 3756 KG) datedMay 28, 2003 betweenthe
Kyrgyz Republic andthe InternationalDevelopmentAssociation, onthe grounds set forth
inparagraphs6and 7 ofthe Tranche ReleaseDocument.

2.     Recommendation. Inview ofthe above, Irecommendawaiver ofthe above-
mentionedconditions and release ofthe secondtrancheofthe Credit inthe amount of
SDR 3.675 million.



                                                             -
                                                          Paul Wolfowitz
                                                          President
                                                        4    Graeme Wheeler
                                                          ManagingDirector
Washington, D.C.
April 23,2007




                    Vice President:      ShigeoKatsu
                    Sector Director:     CherylGray
                    Sector Manager:      RonMyers
                    Task Team Leader: RolandClarke


  KyrgyzRepublic-Governance StructuralAdjustmentCredit (Credit No. 3756-KG).
                  Releaseof Second Tranche-Waiver of Two Conditions.
                                    TrancheReleaseDocument
Background
1. This memorandum summarizes the progress made under the Governance Structural
   Adjustment Credit (GSAC) to the Kyrgyz Republic. IDA approved the SDR 14.7 million
   (US$20 million equivalent) Credit on 15 May 2003. The credit agreement was signed on 28
   May 2003 and became effective on 30 July 2003. The credit was to be disbursed in three
   tranches o f SDR 3.675, 3.675 and 7.350 millions respectively.          The first tranche was
   disbursed on effectiveness o f the Credit on 30 July 2003. The second tranche was to be
   disbursed on completion o f a series of governance reforms described below. Although the
   second tranche was originally planned for disbursement in mid 2004, there were delays in
   meeting some o f the critical conditions, which were increased by unstable political conditions
   inthe Kyrgyz Republic following the fall o f the previous government inMarch2005.

2. The GSAC supports the Government's program to strengthen the effectiveness o f the State
   and improve governance.          Its main objectives are: to improve the transparency and
   responsiveness o f the public sector and enhance the ability o f external stakeholders to hold it
   accountable and at the same time increase efficiency, effectiveness o f the public sector. To
   achieve these objectives, the GSAC is supporting reforms aimed at (i)improving personal
   accountability o f political officials and civil servants and enhancing the effectiveness of the
   civil service; (ii)improving service delivery in the health and education sectors; (iii)
   streamlining the structure o f Government ministries and agencies. (iv) strengthening voice
   and participation by improving public access to official information; (iv) improving the
   interaction between regulatory agencies and business enterprises; (v) strengthening public
   expenditure management (vi) improving transparency, value for money and accountability in
   public procurement.

3. The reform program supported by the GSAC i s intended to increase the ability o f citizens,
   civil society and the private sector to demand improvements in State performance, and at the
   same time to strengthen core competencies, including particularly public expenditure
   management, within the public sector.        The reforms also provide a basis for gradually
   increasing the professionalism and capacity o f the civil service, and more widely to improve
   governance and reduce corruption in the Kyrgyz Republic, so as to enhance the ability o f the
   State to pursue the development and growth objectives o f the Country Development Strategy
   (CDS).

4. The importance o f improved governance for economic development is a central theme of the
  draft CDS for 2007-2010 (the country's PRSP). The CDS identifies pervasive corruption, as
   one o f the key constraints to development in the past and a major cause o f the revolution o f
  March 2005. It recognizes that corruption and weak governance stem from state capture by
   interest groups, the absence o f effective checks and balances on executive power, and lack o f
  clearly defined responsibilities at the center o f government. It notes that corruption and weak
  governance hamper the business climate, particularly through excessive regulation, arbitrary
  and intrusive inspections, and a corrupt and inefficientjudiciary. Lastly, the CDS recognizes
  that improving governance requires a merit-based professional civil service as a stepping
  stone to forging transparency and efficiency in public administration. In this respect some
  solid advances have been made by the authorities in the last year, supported by the GSAC
  program, as discussed below.


                                                                                                  1

5. While reducing corruption in the Kyrgyz public sector will continue to require sustained,
   long-term efforts on many fronts, the reforms supported by GSAC are contributing to this
   objective in several ways. Some o f the reforms supported, such as publication o f declarations
   of incomes and assets and the introduction o f competitive appointments to the civil service,
   have a direct anti-corruption objective.       Others address the problem indirectly through
   systemic institutional reforms that increase transparency and accountability. For instance,
   increased awareness o f State activities and relevant rules and regulations enables external
   stakeholders to demand higherstandards of integrity from public officials. Similarly, reduced
   discretion and informality in budget execution resulting from modernization o f treasury
   operations; strengthening of internal control and external audit functions; and increased
   transparency inthe procurement process diminishes opportunities for fraud and corruption in
   public expenditure management. Finally, the elimination o f financing mechanisms (Special
   Means Accounts) that create perverse incentives for regulatory agencies to harass businesses
   in order to increase their funding, will both improve the business environment and the
   transparency and efficiency o f public resource management.

6. Waivers are being requested on two conditions which were met partially. The first i s on
   condition 2, relating to the passage o f a new Civil Service Law satisfactory to IDA. As
   explained below a draft law satisfactory to IDA was submitted to the Jogorku Kenesh
   (parliament) in May 2004. The new law was a big improvement on the previous law as it
   clearly differentiated between political appointments and permanent administrative
   appointments, increased the competitiveness in recruitment and promotion o f civil servants,
   improved incentives for performance and integrity, improved institutional arrangements for
   the management o f the civil service through the creation o f the Civil Service Agency to
   manage personnel processes, required declaration o f income and assets o f civil servants and
   allowed for these to be made public on request, as required under the conditions for the
   release o f the second tranche o f the credit.

7. The law was approved inJune 2004 but with amendments that weakened the independence of
   the Civil Service Agency and strengthened the relative powers o f ministers. These
   amendments to the original draft potentially reduced the independence o f the Civil Service
   Agency by specifying one year terms for the members o f the Civil Service Council
   overseeing the operation o f the Agency and deleted a provision in the functions o f the
   Agency which clearly ensured that it was to give its consent to personnel changes at the
   highest level o f the Civil Service. For these reasons the law was initially deemed
   unsatisfactory to IDA and changes were requested. Given these concerns on the amendments
   to the agreed draft o f the law, there was an extensive dialogue with the authorities that
   resulted in significant progress in implementing the law (particularly as regards merit based
   appointments, the responsibility o f the Civil Service Agency rather than Ministers for
  personnel matters). In the light o f the progress made in implementing the law it was
   recognized that changes by parliament to the law would be both difficult to achieve and add
   little value to its impact at this stage, given that the law as approved by parliament did
   comply substantively with that envisaged under the second tranche conditions.

8. The second waiver is being requested on condition 8 regarding the development o f capitation
  based formulae for the allocation o f funds for health and education.       In both cases the
  formulae were developed. However, in the case o f education it was recognized by the Bank
  team that in the absence o f other reforms in the education sector the purpose o f achieving
  equity and efficiency would not be feasible, and so it has been agreed to delay this action
  until further progress has been made. The preconditions for the effectiveness of the
  categorical grants to fund education were that they should be assigned to levels o f authority


                                                                                                2

    with the power to determine staff teacher ratios and numbers o f schools and that the grant
    finances inputs beyond salaries. Thus prior to the introduction of capitation based formulae
    for grants in education a clear re-definition of the responsibilities for the delivery o f
    education services will be required, together with the implementation o f decentralization of
    local finances, which is planned to take place with the approval of the 2007 budget. In the

    transparent and objective geographic allocation of resources throughout the country - which
    case of health, the transfer o f health financing to the republican budget has facilitated a more

    was the purpose of the capitation formula - and inthat sense can be taken as compliance with
    the spirit ofthe original conditionality.

Macroeconomic framework
9. Macroeconomic policy implementation in recent years has been adequate and the authorities
    have establisheda good record o f implementation o f successive PRGF-supported programs
    since 2001. InFebruary 2005, the IMF approved a new 3-year PRGF arrangement to support
    the Kyrgyz Republic's economic program. The Board completed the third review under the
    arrangement in November 2006. Under the program, growth has been modest although
    volatile (averaging 4 percent annually over the last five years) as a result of fluctuations in
    gold production and political turbulence. A prudent fiscal policy has been maintained with
    the fiscal deficit gradually reduced to 3.1 percent of GDP in 2006. Inflation has also been
    contained and wasjust above five percent last year. While the Kyrgyz Republic was eligible
    for debt reduction under the HIPC program, the authorities chose not to participate, and the
    indications are that risingrevenues implythat the Kyrgyz Republic will not longer be eligible
    for debt reduction under the HIPC initiative. While the current account deficit has increased
    to 23.6 percent o f GDP, this is essentially due to difficulties in recording a substantial
    proportion o f remittances and re-exports o f shuttle traders and businesses in the informal
    economy (particularly in the textile sector where the tax regime was simplified in 2006).
    These incomes are reflected in errors and omissions in the balance o f payments which
    reached 20.8 percent o f GDP in 2006. Much o f the increase in imports i s the counterpart o f
    these flows, and thus the current account deficit does not represent a significant external
    financing problem.

                      Table 1: Main macroeconomic indicators 2003-2006

                                                           2003       2004       2005         2006
                                                                                            prelim.


GDPreal growth(YO)                                          7.0        7.0       -0.2          2.7
GDPper capita(dollars)                                     381        434        478          542
Inflation(YODec-Dec, CPI)                                   5.6        2.8        4.9          5.1
Exchangerate (som/US$)                                       44         43         41           40
REER(endof period, 2000=100)                                101         96         95           93
Current accountbalance(%GDP)                               -4.4       -3.4       -8.3        -23.6
Public ExternalDebt(mln US$)                              1,809      1,949      1,883        1,983
ExternalDebt(%GDP)                                         95.8       94.9       82.3         78.8
Gross internationalreserves(mln US$, endperiod)            389        565        612          817
FiscalBalance                                              -4.7       -4.0       -3.8         -3.1


Recent Developments in governance reforms
10. When the GSAC reform program began in 2003, it was initiated by a government which had
    officially recognized in its National Poverty Reduction Strategy that good governance and

                                                                                                   3

    reducingcorruptionwere keyto development and poverty reduction. In2003 and 2004 three
    institutions were established in the area of good governance' but these institutions suffered
    from overlapping and unclear mandates. Finally in 2005 the authorities established anti-
    corruptioncommissionwith a mandateto formulate policy inthe area of anti-corruption.

11, Inmany areas reforms to the legal framework were adopted with the purpose of improving
    governance. For example, new laws and regulations to simplify licenses and reduce
    inspections were adopted. In2003, a law to decentralizefinancing to local governments was
    approved. In2004, laws to reform the Civil Service and to requirethe declarationof incomes
    and assets of high state officials were approved (see discussion below). Many technical
    reforms to the budget process to improve the transparency and efficiency o f the budget were
    also adopted.

12. During this period a clear pattern emerged. Technical reform's (particularly in the area of
    public finance, and the health sector), although slow, were gradually adopted. On the other
    hand, wider governance reforms would often only be introduced into the legal framework or
    by the creation of a new institution with an unclear mandate. Capacity and willingness to
    follow through and ensure implementation of those wider reforms was low. Survey data
    indicated that governance was deteriorating and corruption intensifying. According to the
    2005 Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS), 59 percent of
    businesses cited corruption as a significant obstacle to doing business.*       This figure is the
    highest inthe regionand indicatesa worsening compared to the 2002 survey.

13. The proliferation of new laws and institutions gave the impression of institutional
    development. However, behind the common failure to implement many laws and reforms,
    state institutions and the rule of law was weakening and endemic corruption was growing,
    particularly among the close associates of the Presidentandhisfamily. This ledto increasing
    popular discontentwith the regime for the failure of the state to deliver many basic services
    and at the clearly observable corruption which accompanied any interaction with state
    officials.

14. The fraudulent parliamentary elections of February and March 2005 provided a catalyst for
    this discontent. As a result a non-violent "Tulip Revolution" occurred in March 2005 in
    which the previous President and Government were overthrown. These changes opened up
    possibilities for significant reforms, and the new authorities indicated their commitment to
    transparency and good governance. These intentions have been supported by some reform
    constituencieswithin the authorities on the one side, and pushed, from the other side, by a
    civil societythat has become muchmore active and demanding.




1 The NationalCouncilonGoodGovernancewas createdby presidentialdecreeto be a "consultative-
advisory body to designand implementnew mechanismsthat ensure good, open andresponsible
governance aimedat implementinga nationalanti-corruptionpolicy". A subsequent decree createda
secretariat for the NCGG, althoughinpracticethe secretariat consistedof one unpaidofficial.Finallyin
2004 a PresidentialDecreeestablishedthe Consultative Councilon GoodGovernance,consisting of 5
Kyrgyzcitizens and 5 representativesofthe Internationalcommunity inKyrgyzstan, with the Presidentof
the KyrgyzRepublic as the Chairman.TheNCGGwas subsequently dissolvedand its secretariat
transferredto the CCGG.
* The BEEPSis ajoint WorldBank-EBRD survey ofobstaclesto doingbusinessinthe EasternEuropeand
CentralAsia region.

                                                                                                    4

15. The origins of the revolution meant that the rhetoric of the fight against corruption became
    one of the principal priorities of the new government. However the effect of the revolution
   was initially to fragment state power further. Since the revolution, continued political
   tensions within the government, and between the government and parliament have slowed
    progress, and at times threatenedto paralyzedecision-making. This sparkedanationaldebate
    on constitutionalarrangements and the relativepowers of the government, parliamentand the
   president, which resulted in mass demonstrations calling for redistributionof constitutional
   powers. As a result, the constitution underwent two major revisions during November and
   December 2006. While the original attempt of the revisionswas to reduce the powers of the
   president and introducemore checks and balances within executive, the final version of the
   Constitutionhas restored some of the president's powers. Neverthelessthe result has been
   that there are now more checks and balances within the state than existed prior to the
   revolution.

16. Inearly February, 2007, following the resignationofthe first post revolutionary government,
   a new prime minister was appointed and accepted by Parliament, and a new government was
   formed. Nevertheless, the Government has repeated the commitments of the first post-
   revolutionarygovernment to improvinggovernance.

ProgressinImplementingthe Reform Agenda

17 As can be seen from the overview of recent developments progress in governance reforms
   was uneven and difficult. The governance reform agenda supported by GSAC covered a
   large number of areas which included: civil service reforms, transparency in income and
   assets of senior officials, reformof external audit and the chamber of accounts, public finance
   reformsto ensure a comprehensiveand transparent budgetaryprocess, and the eliminationof
   the funding of institutions through special means accounts, reforms to public procurement
   and reforms to the financing of health and education, so as to ensure an efficient use of
   resourcesand improve servicedelivery.

18. Three of the reform areas (Civil Service, Declarationof Income and Assets, and Chamber of
   Accounts) required the development of significant legislation and implementation
   regulations. Itbecameclear that ownershipand understandingofthe reforms in each of these
   areas was weak. In the case of the civil service reform the principal idea was to remove the
   patronage of ministersand their appointees in designating civil servants, introducemerit and
   rule basedappointmentand promotion, ensure that professionalcivil servants have securityof
   tenure, and are not subject to dismissal following political changes. With respect to the
   Chamber of Accounts, the main idea was to reform the COA from being an organization
   concerned with exercising a control function and punishingviolations (and wide scope for
   rentseeking) to establisha modernexternalauditand accountabilityfunction.

19. Progressindevelopingthe legalframework, for all three major legal initiatives(Law on Civil
   Service, Law on Declarationof Incomeand Assets, Law on the Chamber of Accounts) was
   therefore slow, and required constant debate during the first year following the approval of
   GSAC, as the applicationof the principlesenshrined inthe GSAC programinthese areas was
   hadnot beeninternalizedat the time that the GSAC programwas agreed.

20. At the same time, the government made considerable progress in a number of reforms in
   public expenditure management under the GSAC. Budgetary functions were consolidated
   under the Economic Policy Council in 2004, an actionplanto bring all extra-budgetaryfunds
   under the Treasury was developed and implementedduring 2004, and regulations requiring


                                                                                                5

   the replacement of special means funding for agencies that had regulatory responsibilities
   with direct budget finding were implementedfrom January 2005. Finally at the end of 2006,
   the Ministry of Finance developed and approved a new budget classificationbased on GFS
   2001standards, which provides a solidbasis for transparent and coherent budget formulation
   and execution.

21. In addition, the government has made steady progress in improving other areas of Public
   Financial Management, including the introduction of the basic elements of the Medium
   Terms Budget Framework, improvement of comprehensiveness of the budget and its
   presentation (again all measures supported under the GSAC program). The Ministry of
   Finance elaborated and approved, on the basis of a PEFA assessment, a Public Finance
   ReformactionplanofJanuary 2006.

22. In the area of healthfinancing reforms a Single Payer Law was enacted in 2003 which took
   away responsibility for healthfinancingfrom Rayon and Oblast financial departments to the
   Republic budget in 2005. The effect (together with other reforms in the health sector) has
   been to increase the proportion of resources dedicated to primary health care as well shift
   resources within the health sector from hospital financing to direct patient care from so that
   the latter increased as aproportionof total health spending from 16.4 percent in2000 to 36.6
   percent in2004.

23. Thus progress, though slower than originally envisaged, was steady and visible. By May
   2004 the Governmenthad drafted acceptable versions of the Law on Chamber of Accounts,
   which in fact went further than the narrow conditionality of GSAC, the Law on Civil Service
   and the Law on the Declarationof Income and Assets. The three laws were approved by
   Parliament in June 2004. However, in the case of the Law on Civil Service, amendments
   were introducedwhich potentially weakened the independence of the Civil Service Agency.
   The Bank raised formal concerns that these amendments put at risk the independence of the
   new institutionsfor management ofthe Civil Service.

24, At the same time the Governmentmoved ahead in establishingthe Civil Service Agency to
   manage and develop the required procedures for a rule based system of appointments and
   dismissals, a separation of politicalappointees from career civil servants, and inparticular the
   establishment of the position of State Secretaries to head the permanent civil service in all
   ministries.Thus substantialprogressat a technical and institutionallevel was beingmade.

25. Shortly after the establishment of the Civil Service Agency, however, a close relative of
   President Akaev was appointed as State Secretary of the Civil Service Agency. The Bank
   team argued that this action demonstrated a lack of commitment and understandingof the
   reforms and was a clear breach of the overall program. This situation was only rectified
   followingthe Revolutionin March2005.

26. Then, in the immediate aftermath of the revolutionthere was considerableturnover of posts
   and appointments outsidedue process. The Civil Service Agency did attemptto oppose these
   appointments, sometimes successfully, but both in the parliament and much of the
   Presidentialadministrationthere was active hostility to the Civil Service Reform, precisely
   because it had made it more difficult to make arbitrary appointments. Conflicts broke out
   between State Secretaries and ministers, as some State Secretaries tried to safeguard the
   institutionalintegrity oftheir ministries.




                                                                                                 6

27. The Bank emphasized the need for the highestauthoritiesto show full public support for the
   reform process and the insti tutions and leadership in stopping appointments outside due
   process in the civil service. To increase compliance with the Civil Service Law on the
   recommendation of the Bank team monitoring mechanism were put in place. When
   monitoring began at the end of 2005, at least half of appointmentswere being made outside
   o f due process. By the end of 2006, virtually all appointments were beingmadethrough due
   process. It was also clear that a culture was developing in which the new institutional
   arrangements were accepted by the authorities, and in which the Civil Service Agency was
   now able to exercise its authority to ensure due process inappointments and dismissals.

28. Recognizingthat work supported by the GSAC credit is only the beginningof a process that
   will take decades to fully benefit the Kyrgyz Republic, it is the judgment of the team that
   despitethe imperfect legalframework, actual implementationof the reforms has been taking
   place, that there has been substantive compliance with the program and that although
   progresshadbeenslow, it is now sustainable.

29. Significant progress was also made inthe implementationof the Law on the Declarationof
   Incomeand Assets ofHigh State officials (see below).



Progress Against Second TrancheReleaseCriteria
    Condition 1. A new law, satisfactory to the Association, on declaration and
    publicationof income and assets of highstate officials in the executive,judicial and
    legislative branches of the State, includingthe President, the Prime Minister, Vice
    Prime Ministers, ministers, deputy ministers, judges and members of the
    Parliament, and their close family members (spouse and dependent children,
    parents, brothersand sisters).

30. The condition has been met. The law was adopted in August 2004. The law provides a
   comprehensive definition of close family members and the income and assets to be declared.
   Although approved 2004, it was not effectively implementeduntil early 2006. There was
   great reluctance to publish the declarations of parliamentary deputies and ministers. After
   severalmonths of dialogue, the principleof publicationwas accepted and since March2006,
   the declarations have been publishedin the mass media and the internet, and compliance in
   submittingdeclarationshas reachedat least 90 percentof eligibly officials. Since the law was
   approved, the Civil Service Agency, as the body responsible for its implementation, has
   successfullyconductedthree declarationcampaigns.

    Condition2. Amendments, satisfactory to the Association, have been introducedto
    the Civil Service Law to: (i) differentiate political appointees and career civil
    servants, (ii)increasecompetitivenessin recruitmentand promotionof civilservants
    and reduce politicalinterferencein personnel management decisions, (iii)improve
    incentives for performance and integrity; (iv) improve institutionalarrangements
    for management of the civil service, (v) require declarationof income and assets of
    civil servants and their close family members (spouse and dependent children,
    parents, brothers and sisters), and (vi) make declarations of income and assets of
    civil servants available to the public on request, and declarations of income and
    assets of their closefamilymembersavailableto specifiedstate bodies.




                                                                                             7

31. The condition has been partially (and substantively) met. A draft law satisfactoryto
    IDA was submitted to the Jogorku Kenesh (parliament) in May 2004. The agreed draft
    law was approved by parliament, but with amendmentswhich formal weakened the relative
    power of the Civil Service Agency, which was established under the new law, and
    strengtheningthe relative powers of ministers, For these reasons, the IDA team initially
    objectedto the changes. The new Law however, even with the amendments introducedby
    parliament,represented enormous progress compared with the previous situation. The law
    clearly distinguishes between political appointees and career civil servants, and improved
    incentives for performance and integrity. It improved institutional arrangements for the
    management of the Civil Service through the creation of a Civil Service Agency and
    empoweringit to manage the appointmentsprocess and to develop competitiveprocedures
    for appointments and promotions. It therefore ensures that civil service appointments are
    not simply the result of ministerialpatronage. It establishes the role of the State Secretary
    as the senior (permanent) civil servant in each ministry. The law also provides for civil
    servants to declare their income and assets and for these to be available to state bodies.In
    this respect the law compliedwith all of the criteria specifiedunder this condition, except,
    potentially, giving more scope than was desirable for political interference in personnel
    management.

32. However, after the revolution, it was recognized that there was insufficient support for
    reversingthe amendments to the Law on the Civil Service, in the Jogorku Kenesh, partly
    due to a lack of full understandingof the reforms and partly because there was a widely
    held view that the creation of the Civil Service Agency was tarnished by their association
    with the previous regime. Thus the Bank team recognized that while reversing the
    amendments to the Civil Service Law continue to be desirable it was more importantthat
    there should beprogress in actually implementingthe mainprovisionsof the law.

33. The Civil Service Law, as approved, embodies all the main principles described in the in
    the second tranche conditions and all the main provisions of the Civil Service Law are
    being implemented.Under the new institutionalarrangements the Civil Service Agency is
    responsible for ensuring the separationof political and administrative appointments. The
    Civil Service Agency has developed and implemented procedures for the competitive
    selection of Civil Servants up to the highest administrative level (State Secretary). It has
    also introducedproceduresto ensure transparent promotionon the basis of merit. Finally it
    has introduced and implemented procedures for the declaration of income and assets of
    civil servants. As of the end of 2006, compliancewith due process in the appointment of
    civil servants has improved significantly, and in December of 2006 there were no
    appointments made outside due process (compared with 30-40 percent hired outside due
    processat the beginningofthe year).

34. The Civil Service Agency has managedto establishits institutionalcredibility, and even in
    turbulent political circumstances has been able to assert its roleas guardianof a merit based
    civil service. Taking into account that the new Civil Service Law did embody all the main
    principles in the second tranche conditions, and represented enormous progress compared
    with the previous law, it was agreed that given the difficulties of reversingthe previous
    amendments to the agreed draft Civil Service Law, satisfactory implementationof the law
    andthe real progress in carryingout the civil service reformwarrantedrequestinga waiver,
    given the fact that the Bank team had initially objected to certain provisions of the law
   when it was approved.




                                                                                               8

      Condition3. Amendments, satisfactory to the Association, have been introduced to
      the Chamber of Accounts Law to: (i)ensure that the Budget Committee of the
     Parliament has an opportunity to review jointly with the Ministry of Finance the
      draft budgetofthe ChamberofAccounts prior to its submissionto the Government;
      (ii)eliminatetheprovisionentitlingtheChamberofAccountsto retain10percentof
      the amounts recovered to the budget as a result of its activity, and provide
      compensatoryfunding through the State budget; and (iii)adopt internationalaudit
      standards acceptableto theAssociation.

35. The conditionhas beenmet. A new law onthe Chamber ofAccounts was adopted in2004.
   The law establishes new audit standards, meetinginternationalrequirements, and changes the
   ways of budget formation for the Chamber of Accounts. Since 2005, the only source of the
    Chamber of Accounts' funding is general budget, and the size of allocations for the Chamber
    i s determinedjointly with the Ministry o f Finance and Budget Committee o f the parliament.
   The elimination of the 10 percent recovery charge has had a positive impact in terms of
   reducingrent seekingbythe COA.

    Condition 4. Actions, satisfactory to the Association, have been taken by the Borrower
    for integration of the budget related functions of the Budget Commission and
   Goskominvestwithin the EconomicPolicyCouncil.

36. The condition has been met.            In May 2004, a Government Decree transferred
   Goskominvest budget functions to EPC and amendments to budget law replaced reference to
   Budget Commission with EPC. This decision has significantly decreased fragmentation
   existing previously in budget decisionmakingprocess, with the Budget Commission, which
   reviewed and approved the recurrent budget and the Goskominvest Committee, responsible
   for the Public Investment Program (PIP) and the Development Budget (annual investment
   plan). That practicehad ledto incoherent decisions with regardto macro and fiscal discipline,
   sector policies and resource allocation. Currently, the Economic Policy Council is the only
   body considering the whole budget, which provides assurance that overall macroeconomic
   and fiscal policy decisions occur at a point in the policy-making process that allows the
   Government to impose fiscally sound, realistic and binding budget constraints and make
   policytrade-offs.

     Condition 5. An Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, for transferring all
     extra-budgetaryaccounts, with the exception of the Social Fund, into the Treasury
     General Ledger has been adopted by the Borrower's Government and is under
     successfulimplementation.

37. The condition has been met. The government has been successful in consolidating its
   resources under the umbrella of the Treasury system. An inventory of all special means
   accounts (comprised of fees collected by state bodies for specific services rendering) was
   conducted, and all special means accounts found operating outside the Treasury were
   transferredinto the Treasury General Ledger. Besides that, the sources of all special means
   were analyzed and all regulatory fees, as well as fees and fines from inspectionshave been
   transferredto the Republicanbudget. While closingspecialmeans accounts for the regulatory
   agencies, the Ministry of Financewas tasked to ensure the provisionof adequate replacement
   fundingto the agencies concerned.

38. As a result of inventoryof all extra-budgetary funds, the Governmentprepared an actionplan
   on transferring those funds into the Treasury system, which has been successfully


                                                                                              9

   implemented. The extra-budgetary funds o f the following public entities have been included
   into the Treasury system: State Committee on State Property Management, State Fund of
   Economic Development, State Commission on Public Procurement and Material Reserves,
   Special Funds under the Prime Minister's Office and Presidential Administration, and Fund
   for Ecologyunder Ministryof Emergency Situations.

    Condition6. The Borrowerhasachieved satisfactoryprogressin the implementation
    ofthe CPARActionPlan.

39. The condition has been met. In 1997, a Public Procurement Law based on UNCITRAL
   Model law was enacted. This law established a decentralized procurement system under
   which procurement is carried out by individual public entities; created State Procurement
   Agency (an independent oversight body) with authority to issue regulations; and established
   modern procurement processes.         However, the 2002 Country Procurement Assessment
   Report (CPAR) indicated a range o f deficiencies in the implementation of the law. Based on
   the CPAR recommendations, the Government prepared and approved the Action Plan on
   Public Procurement System improvement (July 2003), which includes separation of
   procurement function from the functions o f the State Material Reserve; strengthening the
   legal, monitoring and evaluation and procurement capacity building functions o f the SPA;
   and strengthening the capacity o f procurement agencies. In general, the implementation o f
   the plan has been satisfactory, although more needs to be done to build up the capacity of
   procuring entities at all levels of government to conduct their procurement without the direct
   involvement o f the SPA. The Government with help o f donors, including the World Bank,
   has been undertaking certain steps to fill this gap including through training for the involved
   agencies.

    Condition 7. A Law, satisfactory to the Association, introducing a single-payer
    systemintheHealthSectorhasbeenenactedbythe Borrower.

40. The conditionhas been met. A single payer law was enacted in 2003, Bishkek Territorial
   Health Insurance Fundestablished, and legislation amended to establish the responsibility o f
   the Republican Budget for financing allocations for health care insurance o f pensioners and
   unemployed. Functional reviews have been conducted o f both the central and local units o f
   the Ministry.With the introduction o f the Single Payer Law, the Oblast and Rayon financial
   departments are no longer responsible for health financing.

    Condition8. A capitation-basedformula for calculatingcategorical grants in health
    and education sectors, satisfactory to the Association, has been developed and
    introducedbyan appropriatelegalinstrument.

41. The condition has been partially met. The condition was aimed at creating a basis for
   more transparent and equitable allocation o f budget resources from the central level to health
   and education institutions, and improving quality o f their services. A Government working
   group assisted by a local consultancy developed the methodology for the calculation o f the
   costs o f minimumbasic packages inthe health and education sectors, as well as the formulae
   for categorical grants inearly 2005.

42. However the education sector did not meet the minimum pre-conditions for the grants to be
   both equitable and offer incentives to greater efficiency. Thus, prior to the introduction o f
   categorical grants in education a clear re-definition o f the responsibilities for the delivery o f
   education services i s required, together with the removal o f nationally mandated staffing


                                                                                                  10

   norms. It was therefore agreed that there should be no decree on the formula for categorical
   grants in education until the necessary preconditions had been met.                However, the
   methodologyfor the calculationof minimumstandards ineducationwas approved and was to
   be used as benchmark against which the Government would report on actual allocations
   made. A new system of decentralized financing for local governments is being introduced
   with the 2007 budget, which will eventually permit the introduction of revised financing
   arrangements includingper capitafinancingas partof a wider educationreform.

43. At the sametime, in2005 as part ofthe healthreforms,the Governmenttransferredall health
   institutionsunder the Republicanbudgetjurisdiction, andcategoricalgrants as one element of
   healthsector financingwas no longerrelevant.

Overall conclusion
44. The GSAC programwas probably overambitiousin the political and institutionalconditions
   prevailing in the Kyrgyz Republic. Thus progress was much slower than originally
   envisaged. Neverthelessthere is little doubt that substantial progress has been made on the
   governance reform agenda, and continues to be made. In effect, many of the conditions
   relatingto the release of the third tranche of the credit have also been fulfilled, and it is to be
   hopethat within arelativelyshortperiodthese will have beencompleted.




                                                                                                   11

