Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3756-KG 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Governance Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 28, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3756-KG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 2003, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 19, 
2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural 
adjustment of the Borrower’s public sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory 
to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 (d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Budget Commission” means the commission of the Government of the 
Kyrgyz Republic established pursuant to the Decree of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic 
No. 196, dated April 7, 1999, as amended, or any successor thereto; 
(b) 
“Chamber of Accounts Law” means the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic on the 
Chamber of Accounts No. 55, dated October 19, 1996, as amended; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Civil Service Law” means the Law of the Kyrgyz Republic on Civil 
Service No. 132, dated November 23, 1999, as amended; 
(d) 
“CPAR Action Plan” means an action plan set forth in Annex 1 to the Kyrgyz 
Republic Country Procurement Assessment Report prepared by the World Bank and dated 
December 24, 2002;  
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(f) 
“Economic Policy Council” means the council established by the Decree of the 
President of the Kyrgyz Republic No. 332, dated November 15, 2001, as amended, or any 
successor thereto; 
(g) 
“Goskominvest” means the State Commission on Foreign Investment and 
Economic Assistance established by the Decree of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic No. 
115, dated April 15, 2001, as amended, or any successor thereto; 
(h) 
“ME” means the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Borrower or 
any successor thereto; 
(i) 
“MH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto;  
(j) 
“MJ” means the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto;  
(k) 
“MLSP” means the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the 
Borrower or any successor thereto; 
(l) 
“SCA” means State Communications Agency of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto; and 
(m) 
“SEA” means State Agency on Energy of the Government of the 
Borrower or any successor thereto. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 14,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:  
(i)  
After the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR3,675,000 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;  
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
Page  6
-
5
-
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association ; and  
(C) 
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken.  
(ii)  
After the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 7,350,000 
unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association: 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program;  
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association ; and  
(C) 
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement have been taken.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall 
not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (A), (B) and (C) above, as the 
case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and  October 15 commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 
2043.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
Page  8
-
7
-
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic 
 
58
Erkindik Blvd., Bishkek City, 720040   
 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
245-156NUR KH     (996-312) 661645
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Abrisaev Baktybek Dyushenovich 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
By /s/ Cheryl Gray  
Authorized Representative 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
Page  13
-
12
-
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Section I:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (i) of this Agreement 
1. 
A new law, satisfactory to the Association, on declaration and publication of income and 
assets of high state officials in the executive, judicial and legislative branches of the State, 
including the President, the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Ministers, ministers, deputy ministers, 
judges and members of the Parliament, and their close family members (spouse and dependent 
children, parents, brothers and sisters), has been enacted. 
2. 
Amendments, satisfactory to the Association, have been introduced to the Civil 
Service Law to: (i) differentiate political appointees and career civil servants, (ii) 
increase competitiveness in recruitment and promotion of civil servants and reduce 
political interference in personnel management decisions, (iii) improve incentives for 
performance and integrity; (iv) improve institutional arrangements for management of 
the civil service, (v) require declaration of income and assets of civil servants and their 
close family members (spouse and dependent children, parents, brothers and sisters), 
and (vi) make declarations of income and assets of civil servants available to the public 
on request, and declarations of income and assets of their close family members 
available to specified state bodies. 
3. 
Amendments, satisfactory to the Association, have been introduced to the 
Chamber of Accounts Law to: (i) ensure that the Budget Committee of the Parliament 
has an opportunity to review jointly with the Ministry of Finance the draft budget of the 
Chamber of Accounts prior to its submission to the Government; (ii) eliminate the 
provision entitling the Chamber of Accounts to retain 10 percent of the amounts 
recovered to the budget as a result of its activity, and provide compensatory funding 
through the State budget; and (iii) adopt international audit standards acceptable to the 
Association. 
4. 
Actions, satisfactory to the Association, have been taken by the Borrower for 
integration of the budget related functions of the Budget Commission and 
Goskominvest within the Economic Policy Council. 
5. 
An Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, for transferring all extra-
budgetary accounts, with the exception of the Social Fund, into the Treasury General 
Ledger has been adopted by 
the Borrower’s  Government and is under successful 
implementation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
6. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of the 
CPAR Action Plan.  
7. 
A Law, satisfactory to the Association, introducing a single-payer system in the Health 
Sector has been enacted by the Borrower. 
8. 
A capitation-based formula for calculating categorical grants in health and 
education sectors, satisfactory to the Association, has been developed and introduced 
by an appropriate legal instrument. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Section II:  Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of a new law 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of this Schedule 2, including publishing of income and 
assets declarations of  high state officials in the executive, judicial and legislative branches of the 
State and their close family members.  
2. 
Declarations of income and assets of all civil servants have been made available 
to the public according to the amended Civil Service Law. 
3. 
Amendments, satisfactory to the Association, have been introduced to the Law 
on Guarantees and Freedom of Access to Information, to enhance access of the public 
to official information, to strengthen the right of individuals to appeal against denials of 
requests for information, and to provide a mechanism for monitoring of state bodies’ 
compliance with the provisions of this Law. 
4. 
The Borrower has successfully implemented a set of legislative and other 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that fees from issue of licenses, 
permits, certificates and other similar requirements placed on economic activities, and 
fines resulting from inspections are directed only to the State budget and not credited to 
the Special Means Accounts of regulatory agencies, with the exception of SEA and 
SCA, and that regulatory agencies are provided compensatory funding through the State 
budget. 
5. 
A draft budget for FY 2005, providing: (i) more transparent presentation of the policy 
priorities financed by the budget; (ii) sectoral ceilings for two consecutive years, based on the 
medium term budget framework; and (iii) an integrated presentation of recurrent and investment 
expenditures, has been presented to the Parliament. 
6. 
The Borrower has completed the transfer of all extra-budgetary accounts, with 
the exception of the Social Fund, into the Treasury General Ledger. 
7. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of the 
action plan for phasing out off-sets and non-cash transactions in the State budget and 
Social Fund. 
8. 
The CPAR action plan has been successfully implemented. 
Page  17
-
16
-
9. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of a 
capitation-based formula for calculating categorical grants in the health and education 
sectors.  
10. 
The Civil Service Management Agency has been established by the Borrower and is fully 
operational with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  
11. 
The Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress in the implementation of 
recommendations of functional reviews of central and local levels of MH, ME, MLSP, MJ and 
their affiliated agencies.
 
