Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 16062
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3230 - 5 YU)
October 22, 1996
Energy, Environment and Transport Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
Exchange US$1.00 = 13.8 Din (1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
PCN         -           Project Completion Note
RO          -           Road Organization
SFRY        -           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
FORMER SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
THIRD HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loans 3230-5 YU)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on Former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia - Third Highway Sector Project (Loan 3230 - 5 YU). It was prepared by
Peter Parker, and reviewed by Messrs. Christian Duvigneau, Acting Chief (EC2ET) and
Franz Kaps, Acting Director (EC2DR).
This Note is in lieu of an Implementation Completion Report because the loans were
lapsed prior to effectiveness. It is based on internal Bank memoranda, supervision reports
and direct knowledge of the project.
A. Background
1.          The Project was appraised in October 1988 with a view to supporting the
economic development program of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY). The Project was an integral part of the Bank's development strategy for the
transport sector. The objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve highway planning and
implementation of works through rationalizing expenditure programs and financing plans;
(b) institute a nationwide maintenance management system and a funding mechanism to
improve operational efficiency and meet maintenance requirements on a continuous basis;
(c) improve roads for transit and tourist traffic, thereby generating additional foreign
exchange; (d) reduce road vehicle emissions; and (e) rectify incentive distortions, encourage
private contractors and consultants, and reduce costs.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.           The Project comprised a two-year time slice of the road programs of the four
Road Organizations (ROs) of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, and Serbia
(including Vojvodina), and the Republic of Slovenia, who were the borrowers. The loans
were guaranteed by the SFRY. The Project was financed by Bank Loans totaling $292
million to the ROs of Bosnia-Herzegovina ($55 million), Croatia ($75 million), Macedonia
($22 million) Serbia ($55 million) Vojvodina ($25 million), and to Slovenia ($60 million).
The total financing package of $2,343 million included, in addition to the Bank loans, $33
million from the Bank's First and Second Highway Sector Projects, EIB financing of $190
million, local funds totaling $1,688 million and funds from other foreign sources totaling
$140 million.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed %iLhout World Bank authorization.



3.          The   Project  included:  (a)  the  construction   and   pavement
strengthening/betterment and maintenance of high priority roads - particularly those serving
transit, port access, and tourist traffic - included in the borrowers' road expenditure
programs; (b) construction of Section I of the Belgrade-Pancevo road by the Serbia RO; (c)
implementation of pavement strengthening and betternent works by the Serbia RO; (d)
adoption and implementation of a maintenance planning system; (e) carrying out a study on
the reduction of road vehicle emissions; and (f) strengthening the capability of highway
staff through training.
C. Major Factors
4.          The Loans were approved by the Board on June 20, 1990, but signed only
on May 7, 1991 due in part to delays resulting from the deteriorating political situation.
The original terminal dates of effectiveness of September 9, 1991 were extended once to
March 6, 1992 in the hope that the situation would improve. Due to the actual and
impending breakup of the country, the Bank then informed all Borrowers except Serbia
(including Vojvodina) by letters dated May 6, 1992 that it was not possible to declare the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for the Third Highway Sector Project effective, that the
terminal dates of effectiveness would not be extended, and that the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements had lapsed as of that date.   The Bank extended the terminal dates of
effectiveness of the Loans to Serbia (including Vojvodina) to December 31, 1992, but then
similarly informed them by letter dated June 15, 1993 that the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements had lapsed as of that date.  The borrowers were not required to pay
commitment charges on their respective Loans.
C. Lessons Learned
5.          The outbreak of the war, and consequent inability to achieve project
objectives, could not have been anticipated at the time of project approval.
m:\pp\yug\2roadI cn.dot












I:z
a.~~~~~.
Ci
tfi.
F -i
fS                    1'  Z
'4                   L  t
U
L.                    t.
L'                    r)   C,
_.              f~~~~li   >



