Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3232 YU
                  (Third Highway Sector Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              SELF-MANAGING COMMUNITY OF INTEREST FOR
                    ROADS OF MACEDONIA, SKOPJE
                                and
               FEDERAL ASSOCIATION OF REPUBLICAN AND
                 PROVINCIAL ROAD ORGANIZATIONS OF
                       YUGOSLAVIA, BELGRADE
                         Dated May 7, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3232 YU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May  7,  1991,  among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  SELF-MANAGING
COMMUNITY  OF  INTEREST  FOR   ROADS  OF  MACEDONIA,  SKOPJE  (the
Borrower) and  FEDERAL  ASSOCIATION  OF  REPUBLICAN AND PROVINCIAL
ROAD ORGANIZATIONS OF YUGOSLAVIA, BELGRADE (FARP).
     WHEREAS (A) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the
Guarantor), the Borrower and FARP, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "FARP" means the  Federal  Association of Republican and
Provincial  Road   Organizations   of   Yugoslavia,  Belgrade,  an
association established  and  operating  pursuant  to FARP's Self-
management Agreement (defined below);
     (b)  "FARP's  Self-management  Agreement"   means  the  Self-
management Agreement  on  Formation  of  the  Federation  of Self-
Managing  Communities  of  Interest  in  the  Field  of  Roads  in
Yugoslavia, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Action Plan" means the  plan  of action of the Borrower
and FARP for the 1990-1992 period,  as may be amended from time to
time;
     (d)  "FARP Work  Program"  means  the  work  program for FARP
during the 1990-1991 period, as may be amended from time to time;
     (e)  "Road Expenditure Program"  means  the Borrower's annual
expenditure program, as may be amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Financing Plan" means the Borrower's financing plan for
the Road Expenditure Program, as may be amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Borrower's  Statutes"  means  the  Borrower's Statutes,
dated June 29,  1982,  pursuant  to  which  the  Borrower has been
established and is operating, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
     (h)  "Feasibility  Study  Guidelines"  means  the  guidelines
followed by the Borrower and FARP  set forth in the 1974 Manual on
Highway  Feasibility  Studies  to  determine  the  feasibility  of
proposed roadworks; and
     (i)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent  to   the   amount   of   twenty-two   million  dollars
($22,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1994,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one  percent  (1/2  of 1%).  On each of
the  dates  specified  in  Section  2.06  of  this  Agreement, the
Borrower  shall  pay  interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount
outstanding during the  preceding  Interest  Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower and the
          Guarantor  of   the   Cost   of   Qualified  Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
engineering,  administrative,  financial   and  highway  transport
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  carry  out,  together with FARP, the
Action Plan and the  Road  Expenditure  Program with due diligence
and efficiency  and  in  conformity  with appropriate engineering,
administrative, financial and highway transport practices.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower  shall, by September 30, 1991,
together with FARP, carry out  a revision of the Feasibility Study
Guidelines in accordance with  terms  of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a feasibility study of
each roadwork proposed  to  be  included  in  the Road Expenditure
Program on the basis  of  the  Feasibility Study Guidelines and in
accordance with levels  of  economic  analysis satisfactory to the
Bank; and (ii)  furnish  to  the  Bank  summaries of such proposed
roadworks with  the  results  of  each  feasibility  study, all in
accordance with  an  implementation  schedule  satisfactory to the
Bank.
     (c)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall: (i) include in  the  Road Expenditure Program such proposed
roadworks which have been approved  by  the Bank and which have an
economic rate of return  of  not  less  than 12% calculated on the
basis of a methodology  satisfactory  to  the Bank; and (ii) carry
out such roadworks: (A)  no  earlier  than  the  year in which the
first year economic rate of return is not less than 10% calculated
on the basis of a methodology satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) in
their order of priority as  determined  by their economic rates of
return.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  prepare and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for review and
               comment, not later than  October  15 of each of its
               fiscal years,  the  following  information, of such
               scope  and  in  such   detail  as  the  Bank  shall
               reasonably request: (A)  a  report  on the progress
               achieved in the  carrying  out  of the current Road
               Expenditure Program, (B)  proposed revisions to the
               current Road Expenditure Program and Financing Plan
               and the Road Expenditure Program and Financing Plan
               proposed for the  following  calendar year; and (C)
               the road  expenditure  program  and  financing plan
Page  5
               proposed for the period through 1992;
         (ii)  afford the Bank a  reasonable opportunity to review
               and comment on such report and proposals; and
        (iii)  thereafter, promptly introduce  any  revisions in a
               manner  that  such  Road  Expenditure  Program  and
               Financing  Plan   for   the   following   year  are
               satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  With respect to the foregoing:
          (i)  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the
               Borrower shall not introduce any material change in
               the Road Expenditure  Program  or Financing Plan as
               agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
         (ii)  For  the  purposes   of   this  Section,  the  term
               "material change" means  any  change  or changes in
               new  construction,  betterment,  rehabilitation and
               pavement strengthening works  which  amounts to the
               equivalent of not  more  than  five percent (5%) of
               the cost of such works.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  each calendar year and  in accordance with the Road
               Expenditure Program  and  Financing  Plan  for each
               such calendar year,  allocate  the revenue received
               from the road user charge on fuel initially to road
               maintenance, debt service  and administrative costs
               and thereafter to other roadworks;
         (ii)  each calendar year and  in accordance with the Road
               Expenditure Program  and  Financing  Plan  for each
               such calendar  year,  allocate  not  less  than the
               equivalent of $19,000,000 in October 1989 prices to
               road maintenance  from  both  the  revenue received
               from the road  user  charge  on  fuel  and from the
               Borrower's other sources of funds; and
        (iii)  provide in a timely  manner  from its own resources
               the  amount  needed  over  and  above  the  revenue
               received from the road user  charge on fuel to meet
               the requirements of the Road Expenditure Program.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "road user  charge  on  fuel"  means  the road user
               charge included in the retail price on gasoline and
               diesel fuel; and
         (ii)  "road maintenance" means  routine road maintenance,
               including  pavement   strengthening  and  excluding
               winter maintenance.
     Section 3.05.  The  Borrower  shall,  together  with FARP, by
December 31, 1991, put  into  effect a pavement management system,
on the basis of terms of reference and an action plan satisfactory
to the Bank.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall,  together with FARP, carry
out  the  study  on  the   organization  and  efficiency  of  road
maintenance in accordance with the Action Plan.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower  shall,  together with FARP, carry
out a training program under  Part  C of the Project, satisfactory
to the Bank, in accordance with  the  Action Plan and on the basis
of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.08.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  September 30, 1991,
employ  one  additional  transport  economist  or  train  suitably
Page  6
qualified staff in transport planning in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall carry out roadworks financed
out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with design
standards satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.10.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  road  transport  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and highway transport practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
               and  the  records  and  accounts  for  the  Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
Page  7
        (ii)   retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                         FARP's Covenants
     Section  6.01.  (a)  FARP  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  take all action necessary or
appropriate to  enable  the  Borrower  to  perform its obligations
under this Agreement and shall  not  take  or concur in any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  FARP shall  carry  on  its  operations  and  conduct its
affairs  in  accordance   with  sound  administrative,  financial,
economic and highway transport  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers  and  in  accordance  with  terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and the Guarantor.
     Section 6.02.  During  implementation  of  the  Project, FARP
shall carry out  the  FARP  Work  Program  and  the Action Plan in
accordance with terms of  reference  satisfactory  to the Bank and
the Guarantor.
     Section 6.03. In order  to  ensure the proper coordination of
the implementation of the  Project, the Borrower hereby designates
FARP as representative of the  Borrower for the purposes of taking
the following actions, and FARP agrees hereby to take said actions
on behalf of the Borrower:
     (a)  coordination of the  preparation  and  furnishing to the
Bank of withdrawal applications under  the Loan and collection and
furnishing to the Bank of  the  documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications;
     (b)  preparation and furnishing  to  the  Bank  of the plans,
schedules and reports referred to in Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General Conditions,  including  progress  reports  which  shall be
furnished to the Bank on a quarterly basis;
     (c)  coordination of the  procurement  of  goods and services
required for the Project;
     (d)  coordination of training  in  accordance with the Action
Plan;
     (e)  coordination and review  of  the  feasibility studies of
the proposed roadworks and the related summary sheets; and
     (f)  coordination of  preparation  of  each  Road Expenditure
Program and Financing Plan and their review with the Bank.
     Section 6.04. (a) FARP  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
Page  8
exchange views with the Bank  with  regard  to the progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  FARP shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance by
FARP of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 7.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Borrower's  Statutes  or  any  law  of the Guarantor
pertaining to  the  operations  of  the  Borrower  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the  operations or financial condition of
the Borrower or the ability of  the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  FARP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under this Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that  FARP will be able to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
     (d)  FARP's  Self-management   Agreement   shall   have  been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of FARP to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
     (e)  The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FARP or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 7.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 7.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e)
of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                           ARTICLE VIII
                            Termination
     Section 8.01. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE IX
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 9.01. (a) The Secretary of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Any action required or  permitted  to  be taken, and any
document required or permitted  to  be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of FARP may  be  taken or executed by the Secretary
or such other person or  persons as said Secretary shall designate
in writing, and FARP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the  authenticated specimen signature of each
Page  9
such person.
     Section 9.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     For the Borrower:
          Self-Managing Community of Interest
            for Roads of Macedonia, Skopje
          Nikole Vapcarova 6.6
          Skopje 91000
          Yugoslavia
          Telefax:                            Telex:
             (091) 220-535                    GRANIT YU 51405
     For FARP:
          Federal Association of Republican
            and Provincial Road Organizations
            of Yugoslavia, Belgrade
          Ljube Cupe 5
          11000 Belgrade
          Yugoslavia
          Telefax:                            Telex:
               (011) 444-5557                    SSIZP YU 72548
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ E. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    SELF-MANAGING COMMUNITY OF INTEREST FOR
                      ROADS OF MACEDONIA, SKOPJE
                    By /s/ J. Kulisic
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  10
                    FEDERAL ASSOCIATION OF REPUBLICAN
                      AND PROVINCIAL ROAD ORGANIZATIONS
                      OF YUGOSLAVIA, BELGRADE
                    By /s/ J. Kulisic
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works for           21,000,000      50%
     betterment
     and pavement
     strengthening
(2)  Equipment and                800,000      100% of foreign
     spare parts for                           expenditures,
     Part B of                                 100% of local
     the Project                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 60%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(3)  Consultants'                 200,000      100%
     services, studies
     and training              __________
          TOTAL                22,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,200,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (i) to improve highway
planning  and  implementation   of   works  through  rationalizing
Page  11
expenditure programs and financing plans, including optimizing the
expenditure  program  for  the  Trans  Yugoslav  Highway;  (ii) to
institute a nationwide maintenance management system and a funding
mechanism to improve  operational  efficiency and meet maintenance
requirements on a  continuing  basis;  (iii)  to improve roads for
foreign exchange generating transit  and  tourist traffic; (iv) to
support the economic reform  process  in Yugoslavia, including the
establishment of new forms of  ownership and joint ventures in the
transport sector which  are  economically  and financially viable;
and (v) to rectify  incentive  distortions in freight transport to
improve quality, encourage  the  role  of  the  private sector and
reduce costs.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Construction and  maintenance  of  roadworks  during the
          1990-1991 period included in the Borrower's road program
          for the 1990-1992 period.
Part B:   Adoption and  implementation  of  a maintenance planning
          system,  including  strengthening   of  maintenance  and
          planning capability through the provision of specialized
          equipment.
Part C:   Strengthening of  the  capability  of  highway staff and
          transport operators through the provision of training.
Part D:   Carrying  out   studies   on  maintenance,  organization
          requirements and reduction of noxious vehicle emissions.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1995
     through   June 15, 2005                       1,100,000
*    The figure in  this  column  represents the dollar equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The    interest    rate
                                           (expressed as a percen-
                                           tage per  annum) appli-
                                           cable  to  the  Loan on
                                           the day  of prepayment,
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
Page  12
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                             1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be  prequalified  as  described  in  paragraph  2.10  of the
Guidelines.
3.   Foreign contractors and  suppliers  shall  not be required to
register in Yugoslavia as  a  prerequisite for submitting bids. In
the event that such registration shall be required after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded a
contract, the Borrower and FARP  shall take all measures necessary
to facilitate such registration.
4.   Each contract for the supply  of goods or works shall include
provisions  whereby  the  Borrower  shall  undertake  to  take all
measures necessary to enable the  supplier  of such goods or works
to import such  equipment,  materials  and specialized manpower as
may be required to perform its obligations under said contract.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$3,000,000 per contract, up to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $22,000,000,  may  be  procured  on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $150,000 or more
per contract but  not  more  than  the  equivalent of $300,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $400,000,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded through
limited  international  bidding   procedures   on   the  basis  of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set  forth  in Sections I and II of
Page  13
the Guidelines  (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9,  2.55  and 2.56
thereof).
3.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $150,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  comparison  of  price  quotations  solicited from at
least three  suppliers  from  at  least  three different countries
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,500,000  or more, and with respect to
each contract  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
3.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (a)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (b) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
Page  14
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
Page  15
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon noticefrom the Bank: (A)  
provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
