Document of                   FILE Cop!
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2808-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
JUTE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 7, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official idties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka was officially devalued relative
to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Pound. The Pound Sterling
now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently, the Taka-US Dollar rate
is subject to change, although it has been fairly stable for sore time at
around Tk 15.5 per Dollar. The rate below has been used throughout this
report except where otherwise stated.
US$1.00        =   Taka 15.5
Taka 1             US$0.0645
Taka 1 million =   US$64,516
LOCAL QUANTITIES AND WEIGHTS
1 crore                    =   10 million
1 lakh                     =   100,000
1 maund (md) = 40 seers   =   82.29 lbs.
1 (pucca) bale             =   400 lbs.
1 long ton                 =   2,240 lbs.
1 metric ton               =   2,200 lbs.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
ADP       -    Annual D-evelopment Program
BJMC      -    Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BMR       -    Balancing, Modernization and Replacement
BSB       -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS      -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
CBC       -    Carpet Backing Cloth
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Authority
ECL/PA    -    Economic Consultants Limited/PA Consultants, UK
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
MES       -    Management Information System
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration, UK
-PAS       -    Process Accounting System
SMP       -    Statutory Minimum Price
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO     -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
JUTE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:        Sixty-six jute mills under the direction and control of
the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC)
Amount:             US$20 Million
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   The proceeds would be entrusted to the administration of
BJMC. BJMC would allocate funds for mill rehabilitation
(about US$9.9 million) to individual mills in the form of
loans repayable to the Government over a period of ten
years, including three years of grace, and with interest at
12% per annum. GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proceeds for consultants services and training (about
US$0.5 million) would be onlent to BJMC on the same terms
described above. About US$9.6 million (for maintenance
spare parts) would be allocated by BJMC to individual mills
against payments of equivalent amounts of local currency
into Government accounts.
Purpose:            To increase the technical efficiency and improve the organi-
zation, management and finances of Bangladesh's jute indus-
try through rehabilitation, balancing and maintenance of
existing production facilities and reorganization, improved
incentive systems, and training programs. The jute indus-
try provides about 50% of Bangladesh's export earnings.
The proposed project would help the industry to stay compet-
itive and help assure continued foreign exchange earnings
and a market for the jute produced by 15% of Bangladesh's
farmers. The risks directly associated with the project
are not significant. The jute industry as a whole will
continue to face the risks of strong competition from
synthetics, possible adverse price movements, power supply
difficulties and labor unrest. On the other hand, oil
price trends give Bangladesh's jute industry an opportunity
to remain competitive with synthetics and to operate
profitably, given the improvements in operational efficiency
financed under this project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project                                          Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:                                                   ------US$ Million----
Rehabilitation Component:
Rehabilitation                      5.00      8.20    13.20
Scales                               -        0.25      0.25
Training                            0.13       -        0.13
Consultants                         0.05      0.35      0.40
Taxes and Duties                    3.00       -        3.00
Sub-total                   8.18     8.80    16.98
Maintenance Spares /a                   -       9.60      9.60
Total Project Costs         8.18    18.40    26.58
Financing Plan:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
------US$ Million----
IDA                                   1.60    18.40    20.00
Jute Mills                             6.58      -        6.58
Estimated
Disbursements:                                           FY81    FY82    FY83
------ US $ Million----
Annual                                6.0       8.0       6.0
Cumulative                            6.0      14.0      20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        44% (Rehabilitation Component Only).
Appraisal Report:  Bangladesh - Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project,
May 7, 1980, Report No. 2889a-BD
/a   Portion financed by IDA only, excluding taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
JUTE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$20.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Jute Industry Rehabilitation
Project. The proceeds of the credit would be entrusted to the administration
of Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC). BJMC would allocate funds (about
US$9.9 million) for the mill rehabilitation portion of the credit to indivi-
dual jute mills under its direction and control in the form of loans, repay-
able to the Government over ten years including three years of grace, and with
interest at 12% per annum. BJMC would itself receive a loan of about US$0.5
million of credit proceeds on the same terms described above, for financing
the costs of consultants services and training. BJMC would allocate funds for
maintenance spare parts (about US$9.6 million) to individual jute mills, against
payments of equivalent amounts of local currency into Government accounts.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms, of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national govern-
ment from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government
authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the
first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, have led to a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. Although it
was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, between
FY75-79 GDP increased (in real terms) by about 25%--an average annual rate of
6% notwithstanding setbacks to agricultural production experienced in FY77 and
1/   Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Report No. P-2781-BD),
dated April 24, 1980.



- 2 -
again in FY79. The late 1970s may, therefore, be characterized as a period of
consolidation and economic recovery following the shocks of the early 1970s.
In recognition of its need for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended to give
the Government time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for the economy.
Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10%
increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8% in real terms, following a
2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past two years has again demon-
strated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this
period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined by the
consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and floods.
These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which represent
roughly one-third of GDP) and the quality of the jute crop; they also had
repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggra-
vated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid rises in rice
prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth in FY79 slowed
sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually, real per capita income
rose only minimally. On the positive side, FY79 was characterized by a contin-
uing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary perform-
ance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of
significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of exchange rate
management and public sector pricing. Due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be about 4-5%,
i.e., well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY79 was considerably (7%) below the previous year's level.
Together with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid during
the first half of CY79, this resulted in a fall in per capita availability of
food and in an increase in rice prices to levels unrecorded since the food
crisis of FY75. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops and high offtakes from the public grain distribution system led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks which fell to the dangerously low level
of only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.



- 3 -
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of
foodgrains needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and Decembet 1979. This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other bulk commodities and the shipment of exports were
impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain imports. Neverthe-
less, the authorities were able to unload and distribute this unprecedented
volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time, enabling offtake to
be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level. By the
beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease and what
might have become an extremely serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's political leadership and economic
planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together
with population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic, although
the public stock position at the end of CY79 was adequate because of the
substantial imports between July 1979 and December 1979. The 1979/80 aman
crop, also affected by the drought, was no better than last year's, and pro-
curement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
was very small. In order to avert a repetition of the CY79 situation, consid-
erable additional imports will be needed in CY80. The prospects for the FY80
boro and wheat crops appear favorable, but efforts to ensure an adequate stock
of foodgrain to meet 1980 consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot
yet be relaxed. A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in
late January 1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experi-
ence. A Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues," prepared for
consideration at that meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in the
balance of payments, as the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying the Government's rather cautious
implementation of its import program. Other factors included a slow rate of
utilization of import licenses during the latter part of the fiscal year. As
a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
1/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



- 4 -
Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were still
not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the projected
levels of FY80. A substantial increase in the current account deficit is
projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported crude oil and
petroleum products and other imports. Reserves at the end of FY80 are likely
to be equivalent to scarcely one month's projected FY81 imports.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in
value in FY79 and the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, the
trade deficit widened to $1 billion. The value of raw jute exports increased
by 47% over the previous year's receipts, reflecting increases in both volume
and prices. Export earnings from jute manufactures rose by 11% in FY79, as a
decline in export volume was more than offset by an increase in unit prices.
Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports of leather, fish and
shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the notable developments on
the import side in FY79 was the decline in food imports, owing mainly to the
delays in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to
US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there were
significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in FY79 was considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of workers' remit-
tances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most important
source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. A
notable development was the US$100 million increase in project aid disburse-
ments in FY79, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements, which exceeded US$1 billion for the first time, were
equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Debt service payments rose to
US$95 million, notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in
FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of ex-
change rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and possible new SDR alloca-
tions, the IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's
financing requirements in FY80.
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



14.       The terms of trade are expected to remain unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods have helped to offset the impact of rising petro-
leum and other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports are expected to
increase by about 24% and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain and petroleum
purchases alone will account for over three quarters of the increase in imports.
The FY80 cur.ent account deficit is expected to be largely covered by dis-
bursements of approximately $400 million in food aid, $500 million in commodity
aid and between $450-500 million in project aid--a total aid disbursement of
about $1.4 billion (i.e., roughly 35% more than in FY79). The FY81 balance of
payments situation is likely to be quite difficult even if commodity aid
availabilities increase substantially. The terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly an expected fall in jute goods export
prices and a continuing rise in import prices. The FY81 current accout deficit,
therefore, could well be on the order of $1.8 billion.
Public Finance
15.       The public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve
further in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus
to the development budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as rela-
tive terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless,
inflation has again become a serious problem, and the implementation of many
projects, both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insuf-
ficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the
mobilization of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public
investment to GDP is to be raised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
16.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengthening of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). Reflecting its growing awareness of the problem, the Govern-
ment impaneled a Taxation Enquiry Commission and five special committees to
review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) eco-
nomic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input sub-
sidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial
performance of public sector enterprises.  The committees have concluded their
work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted
to the Government in April 1979. Furthermore, given the recent improvements
in jute industry profitability and the improved efficiency expected to result
from investments financed under this project, the problem of jute subsidies
is expected to disappear.
17.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the interim
report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax
administration, have been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the
Government increased railway fares, and in the course of FY79 and FY80 it
raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity sales



prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and petroleum product prices
by up to 45% in November 1979. In some cases these price adjustments only
kept up with inflation, but in others they served to reduce the subsidy burden
in real terms.
18.       Development expenditures (in current prices) increased by almost 40%
and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected
to increase by a further 29% and revenues by 21% in FY80. Increased develop-
ment activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project
aid, which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a
further 24% in FY80. As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic
budgetary deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as
well. But inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily
by too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into
FY79, especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost of living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by an
estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979 although the average COL index
for FY79, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices, was only 9% above
that for FY78. The outlook for FY80 is that the inflation rate for the year as
a whole will be on the order of 15-16%, with liquidity rising by some 17-18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans, the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade.
These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation and flood control, inade-
quate administrative capacity, low domestic resource mobilization, and social
impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by
the basic structural conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to
natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high rate of population
growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution of income and land owner-
ship; a high ratio of population to land; extreme fragmentation of landholdings
and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; high illiteracy;
poor health and short life expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment
and scarce employment possibilities outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence
on foreign aid, not only for investment financing, but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in this Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of foodgrains. The potential for increasing
foodgrain output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields and cropping inten-
sity are low, and fertilizer use is still very modest. Except for last year,
when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer demand has been
growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded quickly since FY75 and
is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there seems to be a large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly food production can
be increased remains to be determined. The Plan's targets have yet to be
announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.



- 7 -
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million
by the year 2000. These projections imply that the population growth rate,
currently estimated at about 2.5-2.7% per annum, would not decline very
dramatically over the next 15 to 20 years and that net reproduct-n rate of 1
would not be reached until 2035--a grim but seemingly realistic prospect in
view of the poor implementation and limited success of birth control efforts
in Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth for
the country's development prospects are staggering. The density of population
on cultivable land would increase from 3.8 persons per acre at present to over
6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country where the main-
stay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious,
the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious. Annual foodgrain
requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption level of about
15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons at present to
roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. Domestic production would almost
have to double from its record level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed,
feed and waste) achieved in FY78 to meet this requirement. Substantial in-
creases in cropping intensity and in yields will be required, therefore, even
to maintain food consumption at a subsistence level.
22.       A significant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic
needs and the provision of improved public services will also be extremely
difficult to achieve without a drastic reduction in the rate of population
growth. By the same token, it will become increasingly impossible to educate
the rapidly growing number of people and to provide gainful and productive
employment opportunities for them. In recognition of these factors, high
priority is being given by the Government to improving the performance of its
family planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improve-
ments can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project
implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
1/   World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots partici-
pation.
The Case for Program Assistance
25.       The proposed credit includes about US$9.6 million of financing
for jute industry spare parts for its maintenance program, under arrangements
similar to those under which such spares have been financed previously under
Imports Program Credits. Even assuming that Bangladesh were to achieve far
superior export and savings levels than in the past, substantial external aid
will continue to be required for some time to finance a major part of its
total development expenditures. A large inflow of external capital has been,
and will continue to be, required merely to achieve a modest growth of per
capita incomes. The level of investment is very low even by comparison with
other low-income developing economies. As accounted in the budget, external
assistance is currently financing about 75% of total public development expen-
diture, directly or indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by
food and commodity aid.
26.       The corollary of the severe disequilibrium between domestic savings
and investment is the fundamental imbalance in the country's external payments
position outlined above. These structural characteristics, combined with
serious administrative weaknesses, make it impossible in the short and medium
term to transfer the amount of external assistance required solely by means of
project financing--even if such financing includes substantial provisions for
local currency expenditures. There are limits to the extent that components
of any country's overall development program can be formed into projects
suitable for external financing; it is particularly difficult in the case of
Bangladesh where an experienced and efficient development administration does
not yet exist.
27.       Given the severe imbalances in the country's foreign trade struc-
ture, the requirements for imports of general commodities cannot be met by
foreign exchange earnings alone. Without program assistance to finance
imports of general commodities, the supply of non-agricultural goods to the
economy would be greatly reduced. In particular, production in the industrial
sector would have to be cut back substantially. Utilization of existing
industrial capacity has been improving and is now at an average level of about
65%, compared with less than 50% in FY73 and about 70% in FY70. But even with
investment in additional capacity since FY70, industrial production in FY79
was only about 30% above the FY70 level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
28.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 M, made originally to Pakistan before 1971.
In addition, as of March 31, 1980, 40 new credits have been approved, totaling
US$1,146.7 M; of these, US$575 M have been for program credits (eight import



program credits and one fertilizer imports credit). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and one investment for a shipbuilding and engineer-
ing company h&. been approved.
29.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; and because assistance is now entirely in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
30.       The main focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agri-
culture (14 of the 31 new projects approved since independence, and one
fertilizer imports credit). This is consistent with the country's needs and
the Government's priorities. In other sectors particular emphasis has been
placed upon projects which facilitate or complement the agricultural sector
push or which help Bangladesh to reduce its severe balance of payments gap.
31.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight imports program
credits approved to date. For the reasons summarized in paragraphs 25-27,
program lending will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from a fertilizer pro-
duction project and from DFC and small scale industry projects. A Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Project is currently under consideration. IFC is
currently in the process of identifying further suitable investment opportun-
ities. Particular emphasis will be placed upon projects (such as this one)
which utilize agricultural raw materials, provide export earnings, or supply
products useful to the agricultural sector.
32.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector also, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training. IDA should continue to
provide assistance to critical infrastructural areas such as transportation,
energy and power, and telecommunications. A first power project was approved
in late FY79 and a second highway project was approved this FY. A fertilizer
transportation project is currently under consideration.
33.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 10 -
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employ-
ment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were
serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some
progress has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under three technical
assistance credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
34.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
35.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR 1/
Structure of the Industrial Sector
36.       The industrial sector is an important element in the Bangladesh
economy.  It produces basic consumer goods, provides agriculture with key
inputs, accounts for about 60% of export earnings, and employs some 2 million
workers, although it accounts for only 8% of GDP. Industrial performance has
a critical bearing on resource mobilization and is potentially an important
source of rapid economic growth. A large number of industrial units in
Bangladesh were originally established to supply the two wings that comprised
Pakistan. The separation of these markets, consequent upon the independence
of Bangladesh in 1971, substantially reduced capacity utilization in the
industrial sector. This was compounded by a shortage of foreign exchange to
purchase raw materials and spares, inexperienced management, and labor unrest,
especially in the years immediately succeeding independence.
37.       As a result of nationalization of many of the country's industries
following independence, most of the large and medium scale enterprises are in
the public sector and consist of approximately 275 units organized under the
1/   For a detailed analysis of the industrial sector see Report No. 2191-BD,
Bangladesh - Issues and Prospects for Industrial Development, December 5,
1978.



- 11 -
administrative control of 7 corporations (namely jute, textiles, chemicals,
steel and engineering, food, cement and forestry). The public sector now
accounts for 65% of the value-added in industry, 85% of manufactured exports,
and 25% of the industrial labor force. Although the list of industrial
activities open to private investment has been expanded, the public sector
corporations continue to dominate basic industries.  To date, denational-
ization/disinvestment of industries in the public sector has been on a minor
scale.
38.       The public industrial sector includes the country's largest export
oriented industry (jute) and import substitution industries (textiles, chem-
icals, pulp and paper). The jute manufacturing and cotton textile industries
constitute close to half of the industrial capacity in Bangladesh and have
essential links to the agricultural, rural, and cottage industry sectors of
the economy. In FY79 the jute industry contributed about 30% of the value
added in the organized manufacturing sector and about 50% of total exports,
and employed 205,000 workers. The cotton textile industry, the second largest
industry in Bangladesh, accounts for about 15% of value added in the manu-
facturing sector, employs 76,000 workers, and produces about 60% of the
country's total yarn requirements.
Production and Capacity Utilization
39.       Production in the industrial sector has improved, though slowly,
particularly since FY74, due to the improved availability of raw materials,
intermediate goods and spare parts, and a higher domestic demand for manu-
factured products.
Table 1-1: PRODUCTION INDEX
(FY70 = 100)
FY73   FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79
Jute               80.3   90.5    78.6    86.2    88.4    97.7    90.6
Textiles           79.5   92.9    94.0    89.1    83.1    93.4    98.5
Pulp and Paper    62.9   64.1    76.6    52.6    59.8    79.1    83.8
Chemicals         139.8   82.5    81.7   208.6   217.4   173.4   217.5
Steel              90.5   90.0    83.5    77.3    95.3   120.5   146.7
Cement             58.8   98.4   239.0   296.2   580.5   642.4   599.9
General Index      80.9   94.7    86.0    93.9    99.7   106.5   108.3
(Weighted on value added)
40.       Despite improvement in production, many enterprises suffer from low
capacity utilization. While average capacity utilization was about 65% in
FY79, it was particularly low in chemicals (50%), engineering (50%), steel
(49%), and foods (40%) for various reasons. Common factors include:
(i) irregular and insufficient raw materials supply;
(ii) equipment breakdown and poor maintenance;



- 12 -
(iii)  insufficient labor training and migration to the
Middle East;
(iv) administrative delays linked to excessive
centralization;
(v) frequent power cuts;
(vi) inadequate transportation;
(vii) lack of spare parts and components linked to foreign
exchange shortage; and
(viii)  insufficient working capital, which prevents adequate
procurement of spares and components and, in some cases,
insufficient raw materials.
Thus, low capacity utilization is only a symptom of many serious problems
affecting production efficiency. Under the Fourth through the Seventh Imports
Program Credits, specific action programs were developed with GOB to help
rectify these problems, particularly in the jute, textile, and pulp and paper
industries.
Investment
41.       Since 1973, GOB's general policy on industrial investment has
gradually shifted tjwards encouraging private sector activity. In FY79,
limits on private sector investment were waived, and private sector investment
was permitted in 10 sectors previously reserved to public firms. The impact
of these policy changes is reflected in the assumed sources of investment
during the current Two-Year Plan and in the rising levels of term lending
finance to the private sector. In the Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80), Tk 8.2
billion was targeted for industrial investment, with about Tk 2.5 billion (or
25% more than in FY78) assumed for private sector investment. In FY79, loans
sanctioned by DFCs increased from Tk 1.1 billion in FY78 to Tk 1.3 billion (or
by about 3% in real terms assuming an inflation rate of 15%). All public
sector investments are compiled under the Annual Development Program (ADP)
which is prepared by the Planning Commission and approved by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council--of which the President is the
Chairman. To remove administrative obstacles and to facilitate implementation
of public and private projects, GOB recently established a "High-Powered
Board" within the Ministry of Industries with a mandate and power to resolve
administrative difficulties.
Export Performance and Prospects
42.       From FY77 to FY79, Bangladesh's manufactured exports have risen from
US$219.7 million to US$375.3 million, or by 71%, (Table 1-2) with significant
increases for timber products (363%), handicrafts (198%) and leather (197%),
all of which, however, started from a very small base. These increases have
been offset to a great extent by the stagnation, in real terms, of jute goods
exports. Other factors that have influenced the rate of growth have been the



- 13 -
dominant orientation of Bangladesh's industrial development toward import
substitution and the low profitability in some areas of export industry.
Table 1-2: MANUFACTURED EXPORTS
($ Million)
Commodities       Average FY73-FY77       FY78      FY79
Jute Goods             186.1             240.9    267.7
Leather                 25.0              43.9      74.7
Timber Products          3.2                7.3     14.8
Special Jute Goods       0.5               1.0       1.5
Handicrafts              0.4                1.7      2.5
POL                      3.7              11.3       9.0
Others                   0.8               9.1       5.1
219.7             315.2    375.3
Strategy for Industrialization
43.       The Government's strategy for industrialization focusses on private
sector promotion, export development, and increased efficiencies of public
enterprises. The Government's export development strategy emphasizes removal
of supply constraints for non-traditional exports, increasing effectiveness of
export incentives, and improvement of data collection and analysis necessary to
monitor export performance. Public sector units are being given more autonomy
to help improve their operational and financial performance and to remove con-
straints affecting their performance. Moreover, the Government is attempting
to rationalize the industrial base with emphasis on efficiency in capacity
utilization and domestic resource use, and reorganization and consolidation of
the structure of existing public sector units. The Project is an example of
these attempts concerning the jute industry subsector.
PART IV - THE JUTE INDUSTRY
General
44.       From the mid-fifties to the mid-sixties, world consumption of jute
goods (excluding China) expanded at an average rate of 4.0% per annum. How-
ever, in the latter half of the 1960's, this expansionary trend faltered due
to (i) changes in consumer preference, (ii) high and unstable prices for jute
.goods, (iii) uncertain supply and quality, and most importantly (iv) the
increasing use of synthetic substitutes which made major inroads into all the
traditional end use areas of jute goods. The shift to synthetics gained
further momentum in the early 1970's due to supply disruptions and high prices
for jute goods resulting from civil disturbances and a series of industrial
disputes in both Bangladesh and India. Despite increasing demand from the
centrally planned economies (China, Russia etc.) overall world consumption
fell from 3.4 million tons in FY70 to about 3.0 million tons in FY73.



- 14 -
45.       Because of strikes, poor crops and the physical dilapidation of its
industry, Bangladesh's share of the world jute market fell from 44% in FY70 to
35% in FY75. The energy crisis in FY75 and its impact upon the cost of poly-
propylene, the jute industry's major competitor, provided an opportunity for
the jute industry to regain lost markets and to make inroads into market area
dominated by synthetics. Since FY75, Bangladesh has increased its share of
world imports of jute goods to a FY79 level of 46%.
Table 5: Bangladesh Share of World Exports of Jute Goods
('000 metric ton)
FY70    FY75    FY79    FY80 /a    FY81 /a
World Export               1,147   1,041    993    1,075        1,085
Bangladesh Export          498      369     453       460         506
% Share                     44       35       46       43          47
/a   Estimated.
46.       About 85% of Bangladesh's jute exports are three products:  sacking,
to the developing countries; hessian (which is used for packaging, lining and
wall decoration) to the developed and developing countries; and carpetbacking
cloth, to the developed countries, particularly the U.S.A. India is the only
other major exporter of jute goods, but has decreased its exports in view of
sharply increasing domestic consumption in recent years. During FY79, BJMC
could not take full advantage of a buoyant hessian and carpetbacking market
because of production constraints--such as power shortages and labor unrest--
which resulted in exports of only 453,000 tons as compared to 522,000 tons
in FY78, a fall of 13%. However, a 28% average price increase raised export
earnings from jute goods from US$250 million in FY78 to US$268 million in
FY79. In early 1980, high jute goods prices, lower raw material costs and
improved efficiency in production enabled BJMC to make profits for the first
time in its history.
Organization
47.       In order to manage the nationalized jute mills, the Government estab-
lished BJMC in 1972 as a government corporation under the authority of the
Ministry of Jute. BJMC and the jute mills are separate financial entities.
The Government owns directly the share capital of the jute mills and that of
BJMC. BJMC directs and controls the jute mills on behalf of the Government
and charges its administrative expenses to the mills to recover its operating
costs. At present there are 66 jute mills, two manufacturing units (acces-
sories and spares for jute machinery), a jute plastics plant, and two addi-
tional jute carpet mills (to come on stream in 1980), all of which are fully
owned by GOB. While six specialized jute mills have been sold to the private
sector since 1975, there are no proposals currently under discussion for
further disinvestment of jute mills.
The Future of the Industry
48.       Bangladesh's Future Export Market.  BJMC expects to increase its
export volume by 3% p.a., thus increasing its market share from 46% in FY79



- 15 -
(453,000 tons) to 51% in FY84 (566,000 tons). This is a reasonable expecta-
tion given the high quality of its jute, its relatively cheap labor, and the
improved quality of its jute goods. India is expected to continue to sell an
increasing share of its jute goods production on its internal market, thus
limiting exports. European producers are projected to decrease their produc-
tion in view of rising labor costs. Exports of 566,000 tons in FY84 imply
total production of 615,000 tons to allow for domestic sales. This is the
maximum that BJMC is expected to be able to produce, even with increased
production efficiencies resulting from rehabilitation, unless greater than
expected progress is also made in reducing power shortages and labor strikes.
The proposed level of production is below what would be economically desirable,
given the present and projected costs and prices. Operation of even the least
efficient of BJMC's mills is economically profitable. Consequently, all mills
are proposed to be rehabilitated. BJMC's export and production plans appear
basically sound in view of historic trends and the present situation. However,
as agreed in connection with the Seventh Imports Program credit, BJMC will
continue to monitor closely the optimal production levels and optimal product
mix to maximize financial and economic profits. Should prices and costs
change drastically in an unfavorable direction, BJMC would curtail its pro-
duction program and consider further rationalization of its production
facilities.
49.       Research and Development.  To expand the limited world market for
jute goods, Bangladesh should continue to develop new fields of application
for jute goods and make further efforts in research and development. Some
promising developments have occurred in the cultivation and processing of jute.
Advances have been made towards higher yielding varieties and better retting
procedures, and the spread of such improved procedures is being supported
under the Jute Development Project financed by Credit 765-BD (Report No.
P-2203-BD). Moreover, UNDP finances an advisor to the Jute Research Insti-
tute in Bangladesh. BJMC is investigating the feasibility of jute plastics
production in a pilot plant. An application of jute for clothing by merging
it with cotton (jutton) is presently being studied under an IDA-financed tech-
nical assistance project. BJMC has invested in two new mills which are to
produce jute carpets, a relatively new product. Two additional units are
considered to be set up in the private sector.
50.       Consolidated Mills' Finances.  Between FY73 and FY79, the jute mills
made losses totalling Tk 3,290 million (US$212 million) of which Tk 280 mil-
lion were in FY76; Tk 530 million in FY77; Tk 950 million in FY78; and Tk 610
million in FY79. With the exception of FY78, sales prices fully covered raw
material and conversion costs, while depreciation, administrative expenses,
and interest charges were only partially recovered. During the first four
months of FY80, the jute mills made profits of Tk 191 million, due to sharply
increased sales prices (36% over FY79), lower raw materials cost (9% below
FY79) and increased efficiency of production. For FY80, total profits before
taxes are projected at Tk 850 million (US$54.8 million). The industry is
expected to continue to make profits over the next five years (on a consoli-
dated basis) because (i) the agreed capital restructuring (paragraph 65) will
eliminate a substantial interest burden from the jute industry; and (ii) jute
goods prices are expected to remain at profitable levels, partly because
competing polypropylene prices are likely to rise in the wake of the 1979 oil



- 16 -
price increases; and (iii) the rehabilitation program financed under this
proposed credit is expected to improve the industry's production efficiency.
51.       IDA has been involved in assisting the Bangladesh jute industry by:
(a) providing foreign exchange for import of maintenance spares in the First
through Seventh imports Program Credits; (b) drawing up action programs for
the improvement of marketing, production planning, maintenance, organization,
management and finances in connection with the Fourth through Eighth Imports
Program Credits; and (c) financing technical assistance (under Technical
Assistance Credits 409-BD and 622-BD) to improve jute factory maintenance and
to develop a model plant to test the production of cloth from a blend of jute
and cotton fibres (jutton). Jute growing has also benefitted from a Jute
Development Project (Credit 765-BD) which is expected to reduce the cost of
raw jute supplies to the industry. The proposed project would continue IDA's
involvement in Bangladesh's jute industry over the next three years by which
time the jute industry is expected to be basically sound. Thus, no further
assistance is envisaged at the moment other than possible provision of facili-
ties for newer jute products (rugs, jutton) under DFC financing. Further
monitoring of the jute industry action programs undertaken under previous
import program credits would be executed under this proposed Credit.
PART V - THE PROJECT
52.     The Project war prepared originally by Economic Consultants Ltd.
(ECL), who executed a rill-by-mill survey to assess balancing, modernization,
and replacement requirements of the jute industry, as part of the Sixth
Imports Program Credit Action Program. 1/ Subsequently, an interministerial
study group of the Government of Bangladesh, reviewed the consultant's reports
and submitted a modified proposal in June 1979. The revised Project was
appraised in December 1979. The staff appraisal report (No. 2889-BD, dated
May 7, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980, with Mr. S. M. Al-Husainy,
Member, Planning Commission, as leader of the Bangladesh delegation. Addi-
tional data on the Project are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
53.       The objectives of the Project are to:  (i) increase the technical
production efficiency through rehabilitation and maintenance, and balancing
of existing production facilities of 66 jute mills under BJMC's direction
and control, and (ii) continue to improve the organization, management, and
finances of the jute industry through reorganization, incentive systems and
training programs. Thus, the Project would help Bangladesh's most important
industry--which accounts for 50% of exports and employs about 205,000 workers--
to stay competitive with producers of polypropylene fabrics and other jute
products and help assure continued earnings of foreign exchange and continued
employment.
1/   Financing for these consultants was provided by United Kingdom's Over-
seas Development Agency.



- 17 -
Project Description
54.       The proposed credit would include two components:  the rehabilita-
tion component would finance a project which consists of (i) rehabilitation of
light yarn (i.e., hessian warp, hessian weft, and sacking warp) winding,
spinning and back processing machinery, coupled with the introduction of a
third shift (from existing two-shift operation) in these departments of 40
narrow loom mills; (ii) intermill transfer of 41 machines from mills with
surplus machines to those with deficiencies; (iii) provision for precision
dial-type scales for weighing spinning production in each mill; (iv) estab-
lishment of training centers; (v) reorganization of the industry; and
(vi) introduction of a management information system and a new accounting
system. The maintenance component would finance spares for regular and
preventive maintenance of all machinery.
55.       The rehabilitation project is designed to improve profitability
of the jute industry through increasing production and reducing conversion
costs. The rehabilitation program is based on the following principles:
(a) balancing of machinery on an industry wide basis (instead of
by individual mills); intermill transfer of machine surpluses
in some mills would, to a certain degree, offset deficiencies
in others thus saving considerable investment;
(b) three shift working of the spinning and backprocessing depart-
ments would increase spinning capacities sufficiently to avoid
purchase of new machines and allow maximum utilization of the
most efficient machines thus avoiding major rehabilitation of
the most inefficient machines; three shift working would also
permit balanced production without the major intermill transfer
of machinery which would have otherwise been required;
(c) utilization of domestic spares for rehabilitation to the extent
possible, given the high cost of foreign spares.
The revisions of the consultant's proposals by the Government's interminis-
terial study group (see paragraph 52) on the basis of the above principles
represents a more cautious approach than originally proposed. These revisions
led to reductions in investment costs without major reductions in expected
benefits. While investment in new machinery for the jute industry would not
be recommended in view of the marginal financial viability of the industry and
the high cost of new machines, relatively small rehabilitation investments to
improve the efficiency of existing plants, such as proposed under this Project,
are both economically and financially viable (see paragraph 74).
56.       The need for improved maintenance in the jute industry was observed
during a survey initiated by IDA in 1975. This prompted the Bangladesh Jute
Mills Corporation (BJMC) to organize maintenance task forces (MTF) to improve
maintenance and spare parts utilization. In addition, with the assistance of
consultants financed under Technical Assistance Credit 409-BD, improved
maintenance standards and procedures were developed. Routine maintenance
throughout the industry improved over the past three years, partly because of



- 18 -
these actions and partly because of the improved availability of local spare
parts and of foreign spare parts financed from the Import Program Credits
(see paragraph 51). Consequently, weaving efficiencies improved from 43% in
FY76 to 53.6% in FY79. In view of the proposed Jute Industry Rehabilitation
project, financing of spares for the jute industry was excluded from the
Eighth Import Program Credit (Credit 980-BD) which was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in February 1980. Instead, financing is proposed in this
credit for about 50% of the industry's estimated spare parts import require-
ments over the next three years for normal maintenance.  The remaining 50% is
likely to be financed by bilateral sources as in the past. The maintenance
program will be undertaken in accordance with the current maintenance manuals
or such other standards as may be agreed with IDA (Section 2.09 of Project
Agreement).
Project Implementation
57.      BJMC would allocate funds to the individual jute mills under its
direction and control, and would coordinate the implementation of the project.
Individual mills would be directly responsible for implementation of rehabili-
tation and maintenance of machinery. They have sufficiently qualified staff
to execute the maintenance and rehabilitation adequately.
Improvements of Organization, Management and Finances
58.       Organization.  Presently BJMC has six departments at headquarters
that provide the central administration to all mills.  Each department is
headed by one director. Also, BJMC has four zonal offices--two in Dacca, one
in Khulna, and one in Chittagong, each headed by a general manager. Each
zonal office has on average 17 mills, which is too many for effective super-
vision. At present the zonal office has only an advisory function. Their
main activity has been data collection and serving as a contact point between
the mills and the head office. Each mill has a board of directors, which
supervises its activities. However, the mill boards also supervise mills
inadequately, since they have met on average only once every three months.
Each mill board has one of BJMC's directors as a member. As a result, given
that there are six BJMC directors for 66 mill boards, it was difficult to meet
more often. Moreover, the membership of BJMC's directors on the mill boards
has added to their already heavy workload.
59.       To eliminate these shortcomings, BJMC intends to reorganize by
(i) increasing the number of zonal offices from four to nine, thus reducing
the average number of mills in each zone to eight; (ii) giving to zonal gene-
ral managers full responsibility for the performance and supervision of the
mills and direct line authority over mill managers; and (iii) streamlining
the organization of BJMC's head office. The reorganization of BJMC and of the
mills would delegate authority to zonal general managers, thus relieving BJMC
directors from day-to-day mill affairs and ensuring at the same time proper
supervision of mills. BJMC has agreed to complete the reorganization in
accordance with an agreed plan and schedule (Section 2.08 of Project Agree-
ment), and to employ a management consultant by September 30, 1980 to assist
in the detailed implementation of the reorganization (Section 2.03 (a) of
Project Agreement). The delegation of authority to zonal managers is expected



- 19 -
to be completed by September 30, 1980 and the full reorganization (including
BJMC headquarters) is scheduled to be completed by September 30, 1981.
60.       Incentive Systems.  In FY78, BJMC designed incentive systems to
reduce workers absenteeism and increase productivity. These schemes were
not particularly effective and they are being reviewed at present to bring
about appropriate changes. BJMC pays a piece wage for weavers and finishers.
The substantial increase in these rates in FY79 has increased productivity and
lowered absenteeism. However, workers in the spinning and preparing depart-
ments, who are key workers in the production line, are paid a flat daily rate.
As a result, there is little incentive for them to increase production or to
improve their attendance record, particularly since the average wage of a
spinner is lower than that of a weaver. As part of the proposed project, BJMC
would install scales for weighing spinning production. This would make possi-
ble implementation of an incentive scheme for spinners and back processing
personnel to reward individual productive efforts (and calculation of accurate
spinning efficiencies, which at present are not available). BJMC has agreed
to employ a consultant by September 30, 1980 to assist in preparing a produc-
tion oriented incentive scheme for workers (Section 2.03 (c) of Project Agree-
ment). After review of the consultant's recommendations, BJMC would adopt such
a scheme by January 1, 1982, with particular attention paid to providing suit-
able incentives for workers in the spinning and back processing departments
(Section 3.02 of Project Agreement).
61.       Training.  In 1973, BJMC started several training programs which
included training of in-mill supervisors, managers and Bi-.C staff in Bangladesh
and abroad. Up to 1977 BJMC trained only 1,159 employees. In connection with
the Action Program under the Sixth Imports Program Credit, BJMC enlarged and
diversified its training programs and trained 2,846 employees from 1977 to
August 1979. These training programs were well received by BJMC's staff and
were successful in upgrading their skills. However, these training programs
were still rather limited in scope, particularly concerning workers and their
supervisors. In 1979, BJMC again reviewed its training needs and decided
to set up nine training centers, one in each of the proposed nine zones for
on-the-job training of supervisors, process workers and mechanical personnel.
Three of the training centers would also concentrate on training management
personnel, thus supplementing existing training of BJMC personnel at management
institutes in Dacca and abroad. The centers would be set up in existing
facilities like schools, clubs, etc., which would require a minimum of addi-
tional construction.  Only two training centers would be located in completely
new facilities. The proposed location would permit easy daily travel for
attendants from surrounding mills, except in one zone where dormitory facili-
ties will be constructed. The training centers would be equipped with sur-
plus machines from the mills. The funds for training included in the proposed
credit would assist in financing construction and furnishing of two new
centers and conversion of seven existing facilities for training use.
62.       Cost Accounting.  BJMC's present system, while showing the total
cost of each product, i.e. hessian, sacking, and carpetbacking, does not
permit comparison of actual costs with standard costs of production at the
various stages of processing. Thus it is not an adequate tool for cost
control. The action program of the Fifth Imports Program Credit initiated



- 20 -
the development of a Process Accounting System (PAS), which was designed by
EWP consultants of Dacca under a grant from the Overseas Development Admin-
istration (ODA). The PAS has created four production cost centers (back
processing and spinning, winding, weaving, and finishing), and a number of
auxiliary cost centers, (power house, mill workshop, etc.), for the overhead.
With PAS, the da-tual cost for each product (fabric costing) is compared with
the standard, and variations need to be explained by the head of the cost
center. BJMC is currently testing PAS in two mills (Bangladesh Jute Mills
and Jessore Jute Mills) to allow, if necessary, for appropriate modification.
Reception of PAS at the mill floor level has been cool. This is not surpris-
ing, since PAS introduces tighter control than the existing system. Although
PAS may require slightly more staff, the improved cost control is expected to
justify the additional expenditures. BJMC would implement PAS in all mills
not later than July 1, 1981 (Section 4.04 of Project Agreement).
63.       Consolidation of Accounts and Financial Planning.  Consolidation
of the mills' accounts and BJMC's financial planning could be improved substan-
tially. Presently, BJMC's accounts and the consolidated mills' accounts for
the past 4 years are provisional. Wage increases retroactive to 1976, disin-
vestment of units often involving legal claims, and the final allocation of
GOB subsidies to the mills make the accounting unusually difficult. However,
in spite of these difficulties, BJMC should be able to provide consistent,
comprehensive consolidated financial statements three months after closing of
books. Also, BJMC's budgetary process could be improved. Individual mills
prepare annual budgets along guidelines established by BJMC, which eventually
has to approve the budget. BJMC's head office consolidates the budgets in
part to determine the total foreign exchange requirement for capital expendi-
tures (development bu6get), and spares as well as materials procured abroad
(nondevelopment budget). Often the approved budgets underestimate costs and
overestimate revenues with no adjustments during the year. Further, mills
compare actual monthly performance with the budget by dividing the latter by
12, which makes the control process meaningless, since it does not take account
of seasonal variations. Moreover, BJMC and the mills do virtually no medium
term financial planning. To improve the consolidation of BJMC's and the mills'
accounts, and BJMC's financial planning, BJMC will employ by December 31, 1980
a professional accounting firm for a two year period (Section 2.03 (d) of
Project Agreement). Audited accounts for BJMC and the mills under its control
will be provided to IDA within six months of the end of BJMC's fiscal year.
An agreed schedule has been established for submission of audited accounts for
prior years for those mills for which such accounts have not yet been submitted
(Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
64.       Management Information.  In FY79, with the help of consultants, BJMC
developed a Management Information System (MIS) which reduces and standardizes
the information flow from the mills to BJMC. The number of proformas has been
reduced from about 200 to about 60. The MIS has been tested in 4 mills, where
-it has been well received. BJMC intends to extend the MIS for (i) aggregation
and analysis of the mills' production information, (ii) consolidation of the
production information with raw materials purchase, and sales information, and
(iii) standardization of information flow within BJMC, including monthly



- 21 -
reporting to the Board. BJMC will hire a management information system con-
sultant by September 30, 1980 to assist in implementation of the new systems
and their extension to the head office (Section 2.03 (b) of Project Agreement).
65.       Capital Restructuring of Jute Mills.  Total assets of BJMC and the
mills under its control in FY79 were Tk 5,950 million, while long-term debt
and current liabilities accounted for Tk 7,710 million (130% of total assets),
implying a negative equity base of Tk 1,760 million (US$113.5 million) caused
by the continued losses since FY73. However, financial assistance by GOB, new
bank borrowings in the form of debentures, and the accumulation of arrears
have kept the jute mills liquid during the past years. To restore the mills'
finances, GOB agreed under the Eighth Imports Program Credit (980-BD), to
establish for each mill by not later than December 31, 1983, a long-term
debt/equity ratio of 60:40, by (i) conversion of all GOB loans (excluding
those referred to in paragraph 67) amounting to Tk 880 million in FY80 into
equity; (ii) cash infusions by GOB to repay Tk 477 million of debentures;
(iii) cash infusions by GOB to repay Tk 1,698 million of long-term debt to
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha; and (iv) additional
cash infusions by GOB of Tk 525 million. These amounts would be reduced by
the amount of any profit which the jute industry would make from FY80 to FY83.
This undertaking is also a covenant under the presently proposed credit (Sec-
tion 3.03 of DCA). Based upon the agreed capital restructuring and current
projections of profitability, BJMC is projected to achieve a debt/equity ratio
of close to 70:30 on its consolidated accounts by the end of FY80, and 60:40
by the end of FY81.
Project Cost and Financing
66.       The total cost of the rehabilitation component (including US$3.0
million for import duties) is estimated at US$17.0 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$8.8 million. This cost estimate is based on a
detailed mill-by-mill survey executed by BJMC's maintenance task force and
includes price contingencies up to 1981, when last delivery is expected. The
proposed credit would finance US$10.4 million or about 75% of rehabilitation
costs (excluding taxes). The jute mills would finance the remaining domestic
cost from internal cash generation. The other US$9.6 million of the proposed
credit would assist in financing spares for maintenance and cover about 50% of
the imported spares and equipment required for this purpose over the next
three years. The other half is likely to be financed from bilateral sources.
These arrangements are similar to those under which spares were financed
previously under the Imports Program Credits.
67.       IDA would make the proposed credit of US$20 million to the Govern-
ment of Bangladesh. The Government would entrust the administration of the
proceeds of the credit to BJMC. For rehabilitation of individual mills, BJMC
would allocate funds (about US$9.9 million) to such jute mills in the form of
loans repayable to the Government, with interest at 12% per annum and repayment
over 10 years, including 3 years of grace. The Government would bear the
exchange risk. These terms are considered appropriate. The long-term infla-
tion rate in Bangladesh is projected to average about 9%, thus allowing an
interest rate of about 3% in real terms. BJMC would retain the funds for the
training component and for consultants services (about US$0.5 million) and



- 22 -
would repay such amounts to the Government on the same terms as described
above. For maintenance, BJMC would allocate foreign exchange (about US$9.6
million) which individual mills would buy with cash from their working capital.
The same procedure is used under the Imports Program Credits (see Section
3.01(b) and (c) of the DCA and Section 2.02 of the Project Agrepment).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.     In line with existing procurement procedures, mills would procure the
required spares, equipment, and materials for maintenance and rehabilitation
on an individual basis or grouped for several mills to obtain better prices.
Three types of procurement procedures would be followed for these items.
First, international competitive bidding would be used for contracts above
US$50,000 equivalent. In evaluation of contracts, local suppliers would
receive a 15% preference or the existing rate of customs duties, whichever
is lower. Second, for proprietary items, contracts would be allotted after
negotiations or competitive bidding among licensed manufacturers. Third, for
contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, the mills/BJMC would procure through
international shopping using normal commercial channels. For civil works
contracts for the training component, local competitive bidding procedures
would be followed. For contracts above US$50,000 IDA would review the mill's
procurement decisions after contracts have been signed and prior to submission
of the first withdrawal application to IDA. Thus, disbursement of about 30%
of the credit amount would be subject to IDA's post award review.
69.       IDA would disburse against 100% of the foreign cost, or against 100%
of local cost ex-factory in cases where local engineering companies won con-
tracts in competition with foreign firms. For the training component IDA
would disburse against 100% of the foreign cost and 90% of the local cost.
For consultants services, IDA would disburse against 100% of total costs. The
proposed credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 36 months, or by
about the end of FY83.
Project Monitoring
70.       BJMC would submit quarterly operational statistics and half yearly
progress reports on: utilization of the funds for maintenance and rehabil-
itation broken down by individual mills; and implementation of the project
activities involving improvements in organization, the management information
system, process cost accounting, training centers, the incentive scheme,
intermill transfer of machine units, and introduction of third shifts. BJMC's
internal and external audit would check proper utilization of the spares to
be purchased under the proposed loan.
Production and Price Levels
71.       The optimal product mix of the jute industry and the optimal export/
production levels of raw jute and jute products are very sensitive to changes
in raw jute prices, conversion costs and sales prices, which fluctuate widely.
GOB and BJMC have a certain influence on these parameters, given that (i) BJMC
consumes about one-half of the raw jute crop of Bangladesh; (ii) Bangladesh's



- 23 -
export of raw jute constitutes about 80% of world exports; (iii) BJMC holds
about half of the world export market of jute goods; and (iv) Bangladesh raw
jute production levels are highly sensitive to farmers expectations of the
relative prices of jute and rice, which are in turn influenced by minimum
prices announced by the Government. Therefore, a half-yearly review and the
elaboration of a strategy for optimal product mix, export levels, and pricing
of raw jute and jute goods are essential.
72.       At present, the Ministry of Jute and BJMC closely monitor historic
prices and exports of raw jute and jute goods. A price advisory committee
decides on policy measures concerning raw jute such as the Statutory Minimum
Price (SMP) described in paragraph 73 below, the level of export tax, and
the Minimum Export Price. A different price advisory committee that meets
quarterly determines the jute goods export prices and desired production
levels. However, these decisions are mainly based on past developments and
not on an in-depth analysis of likely future developments resulting from
alternative policy measures. Therefore, GOB will create by December 31, 1980
in the Ministry of Jute a special cell that would recommend a medium-term price
and export plan for raw jute and jute goods, taking into account such factors
as the interdependence of quantities of raw jute and jute goods exports from
Bangladesh, their relative price elasticities, the level of the raw jute ex-
port tax, and the price of rice. This plan would be updated semi-annually
(Section 3.02 of DCA). The initial staffing and functions of such a cell
were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
73.       Raw jute prices and production levels have fluctuated widely, due
in part to weather variations but also reflecting changes in jute and rice
prices. The difficult position of jute vis-a-vis synthetics has been signifi-
cantly worsened by problems of unreliability of jute supplies and the conse-
quent sharp fluctuations of the jute price. The SMP system was designed in
order to provide adequate farmer incentives to produce the desired levels of
jute production, and to avoid sharp swings in production and prices. During
FY80 the system broke down due to unusual weather which caused a large part
of the jute crop to be of very poor quality. While prices for normal quality
jute remained at attractive levels, the market price for low quality jute
fell to Tk 40/maund, substantially below the SMP of Tk 95/maund. The pur-
chases by the Government agencies were inadequate to support the market
price at the designated level. Suitable uses for jute of the quality pro-
duced were extremely limited. While the public jute corporations purchased
jute at the SMP from intermediaries, farmers often received only the market
price. The new cell to be created in the Ministry of Jute (paragraph 72) is
expected to assist in avoiding recurrences of such problems. In particular,
the cell would prepare more accurate forecasts of jute demand and the effect
of various price levels on jute production, and develop contingency plans for
coping with the effects of weather variations on quantities of production and
prices received by farmers. IDA would be kept informed periodically of the
work of the cell and would have an opportunity to comment on the work of the
cell and the proposed strategy.
Benefits and Risks of the Project
74.       The financial and the economic rates of return for the rehabilita-
tion component of the Project are estimated at 26% and 44% respectively.



- 24 -
(These returns take credit for only about 30% of the estimated increase in
production, the remainder assumed to be due to improved management.) The
Project is expected to increase foreign exchange earnings from the export of
jute goods from US$268 million in FY79 to US$443 million in FY84, to maintain
employment in the mills (205,000 people) and to increase incomes for about 15%
of Bangladesh's farmers who grow jute. The maintenance component is expected
to ensure availability of sufficient foreign exchange to keep the plants in
sound operating condition.
75.       The risks concerning the Project are minimal, since the proposed
investment has been kept at a minimum to keep the industry in good operating
condition, with emphasis placed on operational improvements.  Any substan-
tially larger investment does not seem justified at this stage given the
existing financial and economic environment. The risks concerning the indus-
try as a whole are acceptable. On the one hand, strong competition from
synthetics and supply disruptions due to power failures and labor unrest
will continue to be a major risk, and adverse price movements of raw jute and
jute goods may cause substantial financial losses. On the other hand, recent
oil price increases and a trend to natural fibers have given jute goods
somewhat improved prospects. Given the low labor cost and the backward
linkages of the jute industry to the agricultural sector, Bangladesh has a
comparative advantage over other producers of jute or polypropylene fabrics.
Thus revitalization of the industry is fully justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BJMC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
May 7, 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
TALE 34
25GLADESH - SOCIAL INICATORS MU1 SHT
LAND AREA (TSOUSAND SO. .1)                 RiUDASU                   RuEC  G0?S (A-JI AS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             ~~~~~~~~~- NDST    REC Ur   Ks-IN&U)
TOTAL            14.0                                                 SAol        SA       NWUN
ARICULTURAL      99.9                               MmT  iUIT        CRD iuPcC   mKm          DCoC1
1960 lb   1970 / ZTnT A             SECTOR     GN     Gcw.   c a.
GNP rIn CAPITA MISS)                 40.0        60.0      90.0           191.1     209.6       467.1
ENERT COUSUMPTOR MU CAPtTA
(XEDDGRAS Of COAL EQIIVAL.T)         ..         ..      33.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  ID-TEAR 1 MLLIONS)    51.4       65.3      51.2
DUU POULATION (lP8CT 01 TOL) 5.2                7.6       9.3            13.2      16.2        24.6
POPMLATION PROJEIONS
POPUL&TION Ur TEAL 2000 (Kfl.LI01S)                   145.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      334.0
TAR STATIONARY POPUr TION IS RAC13D                  2165.0
POPLATIOI DENSITY
P1 SQ. i.                       357.0       474.0    564.0            56.6       49.4        45.3
PU SQ. at. AGRICULTURAL LA      540.0       683.0    513.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE SUOCTUR  (PGT=)
0-16 IRS.                        44.3        4i.4      46.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0     51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 Ys. AID ABOVE                   3.2         2.6       3.0            3.1        3.0         2.U
POPULTI'O  GOU! RAC Z  FCUT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.9       2.5            2.4        2.4         2.7
AN                                 ..         6.7       6.3            4.1        4.6         4.3
cRME BJn    RATE (PU Tn USAND)     49.0        45.0      46.0           44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PR ThOUSAN)      23.0        20.0      15.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GRSS iZDDLCTIOW RATE                3.5         3.1       3.2             3.2       2.9         2.7
FAMILY FLAMWIN
ACCR?IOS, AIUL (HUSANS)            ..       345.6   1103.1
USIS (PECET OF MANKIED WW)   ..                ..       8.9            7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AID NTITION
INDUX OF F000 PRODUCTION
PM CAPITA (1969-71-100)         107.3       101.0      98.0           99.4       98.2        99.6
MU CAPTA sUPPy OF
CALORES (PnCUT OF
REQUT3BIrS)                    89.0tS      99.0      93.0           93.0       93.3        94.7
OTRZI1S (GMS Pm  DAY)            42.6f         ..      5.5            56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WUICH ANIMAL AMD PULSE       9.2k         ..       t.0            10.4      13.6        17.4
CRI1,D (AGZS 1-4) MORTALITY RATE   29.0        25.0      23.0            19.2      15.5        11.4
LIFE Er zUT   AT SIT!R (YEARS)    42.0         45.0      47.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT MOKTALTY RATE (PR
TODUSAND)                            ..       153.0    140.0              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS 73 SrlE 1MA    (PRCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0      53.0           31.5       26.3        34.4
RA                                 ..        13.0      15.0           63.9       54.5        57.9
AL                                 ..        47.0      55.0           20.1       L3.5        21.2
ACCESS TO UCUA DISPOSAL (PECENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       5.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0           66.5       65.1        71.3
RURL                               ..          ..       ..             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER  HSICIAN              ,,      7600.0tk 11350.0         7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PUI NUIRSING PSN          ..    72030.0,g 53700.0        12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         11000.O0h    8120.Oth  4430.0         2738.4    1417.1        726.5
URB                                ..          ..       ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RaRAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADNISSIONS PER ROSPITAL 3ED          ..          ..       ..              ..       24.8        27.5
3OUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
T0AL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        5.3         5.4
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        ..9         5.1
URL                                ..          ..       ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE SUIER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..       ..
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PEICENT
OF DW}LLINGS)
-OTAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..       .2.5        28.1
RURAN                              ..          ..        .51 ..                   .8          9.
RULA.L.                                                  ...                       .          9. 9



- 26 -                                 ANNEX I
TAXLZ31                                 Page  2
AMCAWDRM - SOCIAL fSICATMS DATA 5321?
*|AMMAO                   MUIQ    GCO    (ADJ             pARACRS
- UNS  33WN   sT23&2t) -
SAW        SUN         E
NDST U IIIAMC DCtlt  D61C
140 Lb      1970 /b  WINATE lb         1  In 0cGW  Id    G           /a
PDMS         TOTAL                 47.0        61.0      63.0             59.5       63.3         12.7
IUZ                  64.0         80.0     106.0             74.9       79.1         87.3
FUALR                24.0         42.0      60.0             43.7       46.4         7ni
S3IU:   20AL                        6.0        19.0       23.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
aIu                   14.0        30.0      34.0             27.J       22.1         33.0
8u                     1.0         6.0       1.'             10.0       10.2         15.5
9C01n0.L M E. (2  0 S           U)   1.0           1.0       1.0             1.3         5.6         9.8
PU1fL.-TEACn RATID
FR    T                              ..        49.0       55.0            42.2       41.0         34.1
S                                    .. AICr   26.0      24.0               ..       21.7         23.4
ADII LrSEACT 3M  (PUUE?)             21.6LI         ..      22.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
PA663303  CAM PU  =MSD
.OPULAT.                                        0.4       0.4/1            2.3        2.8          9.3
UDIO lz03 S           ID
10O01.4A101                                     p.0         ..            15.5       27.2         74.9
TV 13031tm PU TMS5
LxF                                  ..          ..         ..              ..        2.4         13.5
N61WA*3 COAIT 01IML
W) OZRU C          SIU P
0SM  POFULAO                           ..          ..       5.0              4.2         5.3        16.3
C1UI AIL A                 U   L       ..          ..         ..              .. 1.1                 2.5
LABOR PUC
M    LABOR MZ (23UAM6)    16514.0             23402.0  29900.0
9W.Z (PR MT)                       15.2        14.5      17.0             21.;       24.8         29.2
A 0C1L20  (P T)                 86.8        63.9      78.0             64.3       69.4         62.7
DM0     (PIS=)                      3.3         3.5       7.0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PAU!CZIATZWI=URT  (13 1W
TOTAL                                34.0        34.6       34.4            35.6       36.9         37.1
Sa                                   56.7        55.8       55.3            52.3       52.4         46.6
IULK                                 11.4        11.8       12.1            15.7        18.0        20.4
CmnC  WfIC     RATIO                    1.3         1.4        1.3             1.3         1.2         1.4
E1? 5 V !  W   InU s    18.3/                  16.7/k       ..              ..          ..        15.2
i i  20    T     or                43S  . 5     2.3?W      ..               ..          ..        46.2
W.16  20 SIC     or  Dm s           6 l         7.97        ..              ..          .          6.3
LOAM  40 1        Or    InOLDS   17.9          19.67k       ..              ..         .          16.3
nOE  in  ros
QLZ       (US   M    CF7)
Dow*3                                ..           .     110.0             64.5       99.2        241.3
L                                    ..          ..      91.0             74.2       78.9        136.6
UtDU2U PUZAII POM? DtC1
Ux1L  (0s3 PrU CA A)
3                                    ..           .         ..              .        91.9        179.7
AL                                   ..          ..        ..             50.4       54.8        103.7
917711ATED P0F01ATT20333LW ASS165
Tnvm Da                (mS)
U                                    ..          ..      55.0             64.3       "4.1         24.8
RURAL                                .           ..      74.0             52.4       53.9         37.5
Hat availabe
Not appleablo.
Sms
/a    The adjusted group aerao for each Indicator are PoPulation-weLghted gemetric _,ma            excluding the ear_o
values of teh Lndicator  nd cbe eost populated comtry in each grwp.  Cowersge of couatrias _nu   the
indlcators depds on availability of data and is not uniafor.
Lb    Unless otharwise noted, data for 1960 refer to my year betwee  1959 and 1941; for 1970, between 1969
ed 1971; ad far Nost Recnc  Estimate. betwen 1974 and 1977.
/c    South Asa;  /d  Low Incom  (S280 or lose  par caplta 1976);  /*  Lower fiddle Inc_m (S281-550 per caplta.
1976);  /f  lv. 1941-65; L   Registered, ent all practicingIn the country;  /h  Govt. establishments
only; ii7 1972; L 1963-4; /k 1966-67; /I 1962; /s 1973.
oast Recent eAtimac  of G3  per capita is for 1978.
Auget, 1979



-27-                                                               ANNEX I
O?8001hL                                        ~~~Page  3
Noe:    h ugth  dat  are drawn fero  swuceS genraly jUfed the aet enMytbotitI, MAd relialeb, it SholA ex"e be neted tbalt thap MW  Mt be intern.-
=Z2i crel  beemase of the lack of steadwarded dafntiUme sad concepts ued kW dlfft eot emcetries In coLeting the data. ?he date art, nonetheless,
osefuL to describe orders of naitOde, Indicae tram", an caeeeewtrie certein major diferomee be%pem conetri-..
The  "d.ueedc g    acara.- ! for seen indicator ar  p0pulatiec..aeigtad geeNtni* Me, eecsding the eatem  vaise  of the isdicato  rAen  the Met Populated
coom:14in achCMM P-to Inck of data, oopP "vroe"e Of all. Ldieafers far Capital SurPhas Oil ZXapWerta end of indicat.Osof Access to Wate end Rxret
Dmspo..al, Ifaning,9 Scose. Ditibstion end Povety for other, owwtry amope s   pOpvi.atiowei.eeted gvehatri.ws en  without .sciusim  of the  --re   tel,.. end
the went popsaltedi country.  Sneteoer.of cuntriee-                  teidctrd~as   vlailya   aeedi   o   cfo  ceutio    a  be exercsed
In_relating_aver""esof_m_niao_oseh?                   hs pme   rep~ er   ntyueS.J  eaaoitNe   f  eeeee mAi.d ehe  Camp"in  th  v.  Of one
indicator at a tim ammeg te ocuntrY end reference stops.
(thousand Sq.1co.)                 . ..   ed                                    Access oTc't   soa.(een   fppnaio      oa.ibcedrr. 
"t.L owface ars. coprising Lad wenftpople(tota,&snen, ed rdal) srredby enreteofSpoal e
~~gtual- Sbtrecent eatinte of egricuLhiraL  area us"d tamperaily                 pereeptaes of their reepective pcpiiatioa. dacrta disposal my  wleusde
or peewently fr oep, pens?., saret ned hitchec gardens or to                    th ecollentzm  end disposal, with or without treatmat, of ban  wsrete
lie fallop.                                                                         end  as& vte-eate byater-bors, sysetms Or the us  of pit privies end  oir
GKP Pn CAPE     -GOP pWer cpita estimOe  at conTent nerkt prince,                PaAt            orhiimie  - PopAi.atien dicided by nnder of praticing Physicians
le~%aft by      ntaeimo hatted en SWAi  Peed Atlas (1976-78 bami.);               qaife  f       a     SaUcl ecbool at university level.
1960, 177o, end 1978 data.                                                                     car          Perso  - Pppei.tloc divided by number of pract~icing ml.L
UEEYCWSiO70  MS  CAPIT  - Amnenel consumption of poomercal snaly                     sh  faleml        ecae  pract-sa  ourses, ned en-itent owrsee.
coaledlaie   erlu.  noa                      O          WI                            lonenatio  F.- NMeta   P       124to ota  houa.1en  rural Poitietta.cs,
th-tai electriciy   icop           of cocal nqni-X-t per capitt.i;                     n   ual   iie   j 19ei' repeoive puMe   f  opital  bed s  aalm.          .i
1970, and 1976 dte.                                                                    Public sWd private general end npecaie   ctptladrhbilit"tiot deotee'.
Hlospitals wen establishments pcnetix eta?fed by at leamt Mne ipftyoisn.
P0PSJSATIO. AND VrTAL STATISTICS                                                         r;&tahljsbWet  proeding" principally custodial cern are oct iccluded. Rural
Total fevelstion. Mid-Vee (eIinsbo    An of July it 1960, 1970, ed.                    boeptials, * oeeve, Iclude benith and medical centers not prceenetly stkffod
1977 data,                                                                          by a Vesiomin  (but by a medicel aneistent, Mnrse, midwife, etc.) which of f.,
Urim  Poultnc       .Ewcn__ of tota    R atio of ,wben to tota  population;            ia-patient MeMPatic end Proide a lieited racg  of medi.al facilities.
diffree  defcltcss of ,s !rh nesa whY effet .otabeeility of data            A                            -Peta  sende  Of ede.istons to or di-sekerge  f ron
mge couatriest i960. 1970. d 1973 dat.                                              heienerof bed..
eaf 2Lt            Cucrent popnaUtion prelwctions swe based on           PPSISG
193IW 5   769i ld"tion by .g. ten  sees end  hir hortLilty end fertility        Averaedic  of P       toenebi  (prm e1bueti-a.ubn  end-rural-
rates . Preojection poretecss   for acreaity rates corise of thos                 A Meskl   pneio     no   ridvdaaebsne   1015q,artera ant
irrei  assanin  life expectancy at bir-th increasing with coustry' s              their mmi uesls. A boarder Or ledger my or my not ho ioclued. in the
per capita icms level, end feemele life sepectency, stbilizing at                  household for statistical purposes.
7.yesro.  The primwtern for fertility rate also have three levls              A"esecNe   f eee   a  e   - total. uba   end rua   .-Avrege nuner
anspdog d-Li.. in ferility according to mem   level end pest                     o  enspemOtoalfe,edrulocpied covettoca  deelliof 0.
really pisenning Performanece. Baec country in thou assigned me of these          rsptectieely.  DeLLings  cclude eoo-per.nnent s%mtrucor   end  cunocpieo vertt.
nine comblatioon of enctallty end fertility trends for projectioo               AcPUn toEetrct  (pr t of dwellinge  - total. when. an  rot- 
Purpose.vnonl  clig    it   lcrct  in li-ig quarters en perc-otgo 
S e stationay popeelatiop there is no groth                    total, erbec, end rural deell.egS. repetively.
ttiib   Bhe bttk rat  iseqeal. to the death rate, sad asin the se
structure rwemun  onCtenit. ThIs -o achieved only after fertility rates       EIPWATION
decline           Is                                                             M"dm ionito the repleomet level of unit Pet reProduction rate, whe  iltddslaO ation
eah genration of wecs replaces itself esactir.  me statooney pops-                byiWhi"'tii7aeno   vae     r     total, sale so  f ens   enroll-
Isintlseic  was netimted -n the hasis of the projected characteristics               mtoalagstthpriesc  .eele  percentagne of respective prismty
of th  popultip  in the year 2000, end the rate of decline of fertility              echool-ege popolatitos; normally Includes children eged 6-il yeses out
rate to rpe'placent level.                                                           ed,luated far different lengths of Primary education; for ooutroen with
Year etattoner- osouati.n in re..chedi - The pet the  stationary Population           univrsel education nnrollnsst~ my easced 10)0 percent nice  -oa  pupils
tic. hdu been reached,                                                              are halom or sove" the official school ag.
'                                                                                     Scener7schol- OcalmIsen  flsea  - Cos.,ted                         -.nwot  cocoy
,er  q.        -  yeas popultio  par oqar. kiloWte  (100 inectare) Of                  edcto          rea  es   oeyears of approvd priesr  inotruatiocs
t-al                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provides general  hocaticcal. or teacher tralicin  instruotio-o icr p.pils
pe'a.:   km. waiu,ltur.1 lend   Computed en above for egriculturel lend               usuelly of 12 to 17 years of eg.  correswpondmene courses are generlly
only.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~secluded.
poUaip   g  trucezre (pWcet  - Ch1ldren (0-iA years), working-age              Vonatisal  nrlln  (nect of neooodO ;)   Ooaioeal isntit.ti-o icoluse
15-A ysreJ  ndretie - (hi year  end ever) as perentsages Of sid-ysar             tcnc,idstaloroher prge wih operate idndepdently or e
poitliee  19)60,  97, end i977 data.                                                  departments of Secondary institutions,
Grelt ow r.th ?Ats (poeret) - total -  nileoenth rates of total sid-            Puil-eacher raio- rier   en  nodat.TalStudents  Werolid in
PeaOpMW  aton  for Z       -00,17-5   e   907.pinyen   eede   ee,dvddb  ehr  of teaher  ic toe come-
Vooslatin ((eet  Pat  (pecen) - attic-ASpial groeth rates of urben                spending levels.
poult-Oo  foA90.0,17-7,fdi907.lit                                                                   rrate       )tt -Literate adulto (shiv to  vn  end write.)
Crude Birth Pate,ertouad   Antneal live births per thousaend of aid-.apretg  O  oa   dl popolati- shaed 15 years aend or.
yerpofnsationl  a90   90  nd 1977  aa
Cred. teath PRt  (eethpsp4  - Annual death  par thouand  ti 5u42    M 
POP-"ti_;  , 1       1977 data.                                            0asege Car  (e  thousand poPItlati) - passenger oncar   sprim.  nt,r oats
Oross Reproduction Rate.  Average neeber of daughters a coma wi11 bear                 seating less than eiht persona; excludes enCulecces, hearses sod citery
in her poomLI reproductive period if she experiences present age-vein
specific fertility raten: susualy five-year suregee ending in 1960,               kedlo Reggivers (o   hosad pogoletiton  - All types of rece,ver  fo,r  di.
1971. and 1975.                                                                       redattoger.  shi. pet thcounen  of popultions  -cIede. u1-toeoao
Realy  lenie  -  ccetos.  soual(thougneoce  - Annual n-er of                   receorr  in countrie  anmd in Years thee registration  of rob. Sets can M
accetor  ofbitt-cotre  devce,undr enspices of national family              ofec;data fur recent years my oct he conperaile sinces a.t onulinea
planning pregre.                                                                     abolished licensing.
F sely, Planning - Usere (Prcetg of   rIed woenec  - Percentaea  Of mLrried         TV Peceiver  (,e,ar tou d ooo.ition(  TV recevers for broadcast to Cenera
coeof child-bern   g   uhear      ars)W et nue birth-cctroI devices                                   POPc  e  hosn   pultioot   c Udeeunlcensd TV receirere tocountries
to al  weard   -m  in seen agegoup.                                                  ed in years the  regixtrtico of TV sets ten on effect.
FOOD AlSO p(ITPITTCI!                                            sene~~~~~~~~~91per Circlation toer tosand ocstion  - IhoI the avrg  oircuoatlio
FOOD AND NMITION  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    o    aiy  eerliners  oePape', defle  aaperioia   olcto
100c o  fod P- .'cIon Cpe  Caita1b-1iI)-se  of per capita                        Osented primnll  to recrding general news.  SIto oon-idnred to be "dislt'
anua,prdcto  of alfood osidltec  Pr.isi   eclandsseed -d                      if it appear at least four tines a week.
feed endist  calendar Year c-on   Cin-ditirs cover Primary goods                  Canem, AAnnul Attendnc  Per CaiaPrer - hened on the number of tirceto
e.g.sgercene ient.d of  Wuga) which s-  edible end .=otalo otrienta               odhrn   heya,ocu s-nnseian iudivein  inees ano oi,ile
(eg.'ff" end tea awe c"'Idadd). Aggregate production of e-h econse Y             units
UcOsr on national areeproduce  prceesght".
per .-pit.se-1,o of caois(ereto   esleet (  C"Pnt"d free                        [APi  FStC 
energy equ'ivaent  f 7cetrfood sppliefT avilble in country par capita          5-%TZ-MM   Force (thousands) - Bcnctemoai  active pereon. including warso
pee day. Availlble supplies tocqrise duesetoc production. imports less             forces end ~Oeeqxloyed hot  -slcding houseives, stunento, etc. Deflit.it-
espcrs, ad chngeein etock.  set suppli.o enlude anima feed, needs,           in various countries ar  noct ~Oopsrahble
quatitie  used -o food prote-ing, and Ioen ...     distrihotioe. Peqon-         7gi. psrefgt) - FseIhrfree   etcaeo  oa  ao-frc
mts  eeesiee  by FAO based cn popssilg.cal rendo for worealt) - inhor fOrce 10 fermig, forestry, hunting and
activity and health consideri ng envirvunenetal teeperature, bony weights,        rishlj en Percentage of total labor fto..
age and se  d-stributions of populatcon, aod slowing ii percnt fee'             ja~,jp !t) -Lebere force in eniag, comst-utioo, nso.fecturlg aon
taste at household leve.                                                          elecL-trcity,  wat her  n  gee an p . .entego of total labor force.
?er  apit  cuply  f Oetei  (eres  er dt')- Protein conten  .4 per     Patoptc    as  pcet     oa.  se   a   ese - krcipatiot or
capia st ouplyof fod  er dy.  et upply offodis dei ned usatvtyrtsae  uptsu  oa,sae   n   esl   ao  foce as Per-
Riqe. iqurmets for a11 countri.s established by USDA proide for a              Conotges Of total, mie and femie populatio  of all age. renpecticly;
aline al1o1sce of 60 grins of tetal protein per day and 20 green of              190i970, and 1975 data.  Th-s  ar  1141' 0part-opt-o ratee reflecting
-nNlad poise. protein, of thich 10 tream  --Ied he animl protein.              ag se tructure of, the PPoplation, and loss tine trend. A fOO .ttinatee
These standards ate lopr than those of 75 grems Of total protein end              ate f,..e uaticaal. Sources.
23 gra   of -nimi Protein us en ovrage for the terld, proposed by FAO           Zcoomic Spedenc  Ratio -  Ratio of popultito under 15 and 65 and ovr to
in the Third WOrId Food Surve -y,                                                 the  lbrforce 10 age group of 15-hi. ycarO.
Percapta  roeinoopiRfron  Ioa  and "oise - Protein supply of fund
Child  age  1-c) Bertshit sao  c   touad)- Ansnual deathe Per cho.e"d                   rerents  ofpiaeboe(both .nsah ad hind) - Peceived by richestt
to ag   -ro   Y-5.pe , tO childre  n t this ag. group; fcr Mets deve1.            5 percent, richest --1 Percent , peoree  20 prcect, end poorest hOpercent
.Ptg counrie  data derived fron life tables.                                        of heuseholde.
-ife topectaccy at Rirti (Yeats) - Average snumber of yeare of life                        E   Miii D~SHIiitPblerty Ioctoae lEvel (Sf  Per cait  b-uraac  rural-
reeaOng at blrtht J1970, 19:75. ad1:97. daa                                        Aha`ilutepoverty1i-c  leve  to that iccne  leelhes   shc              inal
Infant tsorty Rat.pe rethsad- Annual deaths Of iofantn under One                       notr-tional.Sy edequate diet plo .e.....tie1 000-food requtrents is cot
Year of age pertnootend live hirthn.                                                 sffordile.
Actes  to 1s   a        rvn   f  cuaio      ta   ubnndrrl-                           Otiawted R.i.tive P-,rt  lnesse  Leve   ob! Pc   aia   -uban sad  -uri 
ambr opepetoa,ro,enrua)OtreonleacstoOrlrltvposyicoelelin se-hrM                                                                         o   cg  per capita
Iafe oater supply ) i-olde  treated crface eatera or eatrested out                  pereunel inoe of ti  otuntry. Urba  level ie d.rt-d frun tie rural leve
_ccOoaseit.d eater  -uh en that fro  prtected borehles, springs,                    w ith adj)ustment frye higher Cost Of lir"ingt urban areas
and sanitnOy wealo) ae percetages of their respective Populations  in              stotsted P,oultie? below Absolute P-verty looeLevlr eI           et    b- tiined
enura  area, a pAblic fountain or standpost located noct enr  then                 rua       ecnt ofpPILLation  ~urban an. coa)        are  shoclua  poo
200 moor  fro  a house may be considred. - being .Ithi.t reasone
access of that house. In rural ween reasonable access could ixply
that the housewife or mebers of the bousehold Ac oct have to spend a                                                      E.-e'i. and iocia.i De%a Divinion
dosprcp-rvionat. pert of the dais In fetching the f-mylt'   -tcnn  needs                                            ZScOaeic Analysis end Projections DsP-vesent
Anget 1979



- 28 -
AE8U I
Page 4
BANGLADESI
ECONMIC nlOICATORS
Population:         89.5 million (Jan. 1980)
GNP Per Capita:     US$90 (tSo)
Amount            Average Annual Increse ()       Share of GDP at Karket Prices (2)
(illion US$           (in constant FY75 prices)              (in current Prices)
Indicator                           in current prices)
FY79             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60      FY70       FY75      FY80 La
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross dometic product Lb                   9,512.5                4.0      -0.6       6.3   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture Lb                           5,174.0                3.1      -1.3       4.3     59.9      56.9      63.6       51.9
Industry Lb                              1,170.2                7.9      -3.2       8.9      7.7       9.6       8.6       12.5
Services Lb                              3,168.3                4.9       3.3       6.6     30.1      30.0      25.0       28.8
Consumption                                9,187.5                4.4      -0.7       6.7    92.4       92.8    100.0    102.1
Gross invastent                            1,330.0               10.9    -10.9       13.5      6.9      11.3        7.0      15.0
Exports of good. 4 afa                       603.0                0.8    -11.7        4.3    10.0        8.3       3.1        7.1
Imports of loods 1 vfs                     1,603.0               8.8      -12.0      14.4      9.3      12.5      10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                       465.0               26.5    -17.7        ...      0.9       6.1        0.9      -0.4
Cowpoeition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(in current prices)
FY73       FY75      FY79     FY80
MERCEAROISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                          603.0                                           100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                    217.0                                            41.9       31.4      36.0    30.1
Manufactures                               386.0                                            58.1       68.6      64.0    69.9
Merchandise imports                        1,603.0                                           100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0
Food                                       250.0                                            44.1       42.2      15.6    29.5
Petrolem                                   186.0                                             3.2       11.1      11.6     17.6
Machinery & equipmnt                       382.0                                            13.8        9.6      23.8      25.8
Other                                      785.0                                            38.9       37.1      49.0    27.1
FY74        FY75        nY76        FY77        FY78         PY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator.
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                              7.9661      8.8759      14.8521     15.4667     15.1215     15.2193
Export price indae                                   104.6        132.9       108.7       117.7       136.7       10.9
Import price index                                   156.9       215.4        195.8       189.1       180.2       214.2
Terms of trade index                                  66.7         61.7        55.5        62.2        75.8        78.9
As I GMW
(at current prices)
FY73        FY75        FY77        FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                    5.0         5.4         9.5        10.3
Current expenditure                                                6.5         4.5         7.8         7.8
Surplus (.F) or deficit (-)                                      -1.5         +0.9        +1.7        +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                8.8         3.1         9.8        11.4
Foreign fin ncing                                                  7.1         2.4         7.8         8.5
1960-70      1970-75      1975-80
OTME  INDICATORS
GNP groith rate (S)                                                    4.2         -0.7           5.7
GNP per capita grovth rate (%)                                         1.5         -3.3           3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
/a At contant FY78 prices.
Lb ,At market prices; compmenta are expreased at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
. not aveilable
n- ot applicable
ASADy     1
May l, 1980



- 29 -
BAIA2E OF PA'OrWNS. 12XTUAL CAPrAL AND DE?T
(milltion US in curr.nt prices)
Actuat               -                               pro1ected
Fy74     Fm7        Fy6       in77       my8      FY79       Fyo       Fy8       FY82      FY83
BALANCE OF P&MIEMS
NSt xports of goods 6 services                          -565.7   -694.4    -847.4   -340.3   -786.0   -865.0   -1610.0  -171.0  -2057.0  -2271.0
Exports of Soods & serviCes                            418.6    502.7       507.6    610.0    643.0       819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0   1276.0
Imports of goods 6  .rvice                             984.3    1199.1    1355.0    950.3    1429.0   1684.0        2603.0   2841.0    3233.0   3547.0
Not transfrs                                               -          -         -         - 
Curr:t eccount balmnce                                  -565.7   -696.4    -47.4   -340.3   -786.0   -865.0   -1610.0  -1718.0  -2057.0  -2271.0
Direct privet. inveet                                      -          -         -         -        12.0      15.0       20.0       25.0      30.0      35.0
IILT loas (net)                                         274.4    508.2       502.9     246.0    399.0    465.4        861.5    950.0    995.0   1145.0
Grants & grent-like flows                                347.0    395.6       244.5     229.7    386.1      495.2      504.5     810.0    950.0   1100.0
Other capital flows (not)                                  2.0   -358.8       153.1   -216.1       14.0      13.4       88.0    -45.0       153.0      59.0
Chaoge in reserves (- - tncreas)                         -57.8      151.3    -53.1       80.7    -25.2   -124.0        136.0    -22.0    -71.0    -50.0
InternationAl reserves (end of period)                   115.0     266.3      213.2    293.9      268.7     393.0      257.0     279.0    350.0    400.0
Rlserves am  oths of isports of nat year                  1.15       2.36      2.69      2.47      1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04     1.18       1.26
FY74      Fy75         6      FY77      FY78      Fy79
CROSS DOIOIRSDMEINTS
Official grants                                           347.0    395.6       244.5     229.7    386.1    495.2
Gross disbur.enants of NLT .  ans                         285.L    529.1       569.3    276.1    434.4    520.8
Coocesstoial                                               201.5    468.0    358.9    244.7    399.8    500.3
Iilateral                                                 82.4    305.6       357.3     117.3    237.3    226.8
IDA                                                       51.0     112.5      128.2      86.1      88.2     152.5
Other  altllteral                                         66.1      49.9       53.4      41.3      74.3     121.0
fon-conceetionl                                            83.7      61.2       30.5      31.5      34.5      20.4
Official export .redite                                   40.6      45.3       16.5       4.2       1.7       3.3
1D.O                                                       -         *          _         _         _         _
Other sltilataral                                          5.4        0.3       1.2       0.5       0.5       0.1
Private                                                   37.7      13.6       12.8      26.8      32.3      17.0
X rgm DOT
Debt ootstendtig ed disburssd (and of pertod)             490.6   1359.2    1806.5    2068.1   2581.8    3005.1
Officiatl                                                383.3   1240.9    1701.o   1951.8    2442.3   2656.4
DRD                                                                54.9      54.9       54.9      54.9      54.9
tD..                                                   t105.6    255.3      379.8    465.9    554.2    706.7
Other                                                   277.7    930.7    1267.1   1431.0    1833.3    2094.8
ritet                                                    107.3    118.3       104.7    116.3    139.4    148.7
Undisbrsed Debt                                           590.2   1033.2    952.7    1011.0   1316.2   1647.5
DEBT SRVICE
Total debt service payeants                                18.0       31.0      88.3      58.5      67.4      95.4
Intertet                                                   7.3      10.1       21.9      28.4      32.1      40.1
Peoyentse .   exports                                       4.3       6.2       17.4       9.6      10.5      11.6
paymants as % GMO                                           0.2       0.3        1.3       0.9       0.9       1.2
Avorege intanst rate Oa new loas (7.                         3.2       2.0       1.7       1.6       1.5       1.7
Official                                                   2.9        2.0       1.6       1.5       1.4       1.6
Private                                                    4.6       2.3        7.8       6.4       6.2       6.1
Averqe _turity of nw loans (years)                        2U.7       35.5       41.7      40.1      37.8      34.7
Official                                                  28.3      33.8       42.2      40.8      38.1      35.1
private                                                   13.4      15.2       11.3      11.0       9.5      14.8
9A1Imw CE'POStll (7.3
1r9.0 DwOltotal wD-                                                 4.0        3.0        2.6      2.1        1.8
tlaD disburtmnsots/total gross disboxmnts                  -         -          .          _        *
IDID debt  dereioe/tocsl debt seovice                      -         -          1.8        5.6      5.0        4.0
ID5 EDO/total DO                                         21.5      18.7      21.0       22.5     21.4       23.5
1D disburemsnts/total gross disbur    ts                  17.8     21.2       22.5       31.1    20.3        29.2
ID. debt service/total debt service                         1.1      3.2        2.4        5.2      5.6        4.6
As 2 of Debt Ototandina
St Snd of FY79
TTFJO STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstandin  ()
Maturities duo  ithin 5 years                                                     12.0
maturities dus within 10 years                                                    32.7
Interest strucoture of debt outtanding (13
Ist-rst do.  ithic first Year                                                      1.7
ASADD
May 1, 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                     (less cancellations)
Credit.                                                                      Un-
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                   54.9    428.28
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                 25.00      0.94
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                     13.00      0.36
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                             14.00      1.72
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                  7.30      0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                21.00      3.52
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                  25.00      4.03
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                              7.50     4.16
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                        8.70      0.21
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecomaunications                20.00     9.24
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                      62.00    21.27
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                               15.00     8.81
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                       27.00    18.55
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                     22.00    12.98
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training          12.00     7.31
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                   7.50     3.46
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                        16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.00     8.50



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                      (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                        Un-
Number  Year   Borrower           Purpose                  Bank       IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                        16.00   13.91
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                        21.00   18.59
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                   10.00    8.23
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                 5.00    3.89
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                       75.00    3.11
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                     21.00   16.84
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                     25.00   24.96
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                   7.00    6.97
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                     6.00    5.55
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control               19.00   17.58
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                      75.00    4.64
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                 10.00    9.88
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                     6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                      25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.00   32.00 /c
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
Power Distribution                     28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   21.93
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports            25.00    9.19
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                          25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway                           10.00   10.00 7
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                     50.00   50.00 7-c
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pump                            37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Second Chittagong Water
Supply                                 20.00   20.00 lb
Total,                                                     54.9  1,326.28  517.10
of which has been repaid                                  0        0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,325.88
Total undisbursed                                           0      517.10  517.10
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7;   Not effective.
7_   Became effective in April.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads orig-
inally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by World
Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This
request is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B
and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) is reported to have been
substantially completed, except for some minor telecommunications equipment
scheduled to arrive shortly. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1980.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpj_r Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
Octobe; 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date:  July 31, 1980
The project provides flood protection to a gross area of about 130,000
ac and irrigation, by means of low lift pumps, to about 60,000 ac. Drainage
and water control is provided by a main regulator in the south of the project
area on the S. Dakatia River and irrigation water is provided by a pumping
station to the north of the area on the same river. Both structures are comple-
ted and the project includes improved agricultural extension, equipment and
vehicles, housing and technical assistance. Cropping intensity is expected to
rise from 165% to 230%.
After a poor start, due to war, natural disasters, delays in land
acquisition, and weak administration and management, the project has been
substantially completed except for arrival of some additional maintenance
equipment, completion of about six miles of channel remaining to be improved
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                 ANNEX II
Page 4
as well as 2,000 ft of borrow pit canal, held up by a land dispute. Project
benefits have been obtained over part of the area and production has increased
from 69,000 tons in 1976/77 to 97,000 tons in 1978/79 and at full development
in 1982/83 it is expected to be up to 203,000 tons. The fisheries improvement
program in the project area (financed under Credit 605-BD) is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned in FY80. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million
from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated
to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the
Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural Dev-
elopment Corporation (BADC) component; the last installment of processing
equipment will be installed for processing the current season's wheat crop;
all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are poor
marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multiplication.
Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and marketing
consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certification Agency
continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is currently
under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of GOB's recent
strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support intensive
seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980 and
extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions are
known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
-1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump
units are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are in store and ready for
issue. The target for the FY80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or
44,000 acres planted.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making good progress having been behind schedule
due to initial delays in hiring project consultants. The consultants for the
irrigation portion of the project began work in September 1976, but their
effectiveness was limited by delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment
and in the assignment of local consultants to assist in the design work. This
has been resolved. After a period of good progress, project civil works have
again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with
the contractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works
have resumed at normal pace.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. Initially, despite some teething prob-
lems, the project was progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the
following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization
and ineffective supervision of the project by the implementing agency, the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the
cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate
training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the
field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with
IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire,
setting out an action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the
Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines and
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales
of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has
procured in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which have been distributed by
January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000 shallow tube-
wells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construction of work-
shops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)
to provide adequate funds for completing remaining civil works. The Ministry
of Agriculture has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) for Ministry of
Planning approval.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Construction
contracts have been awarded for Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BARI)
research stations and Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) head-
quarters building. Procurement of building materials and equipment is in
progress. Reports from BARC Technical Working Groups (outlining research
subprojects), a National Research Plan, and a Five-Year Plan for BARI have
been produced and reviewed by IDA. A total of 16 Ph.D students have been
placed in overseas universities. The appointment of a consultant for research
monitoring has not yet been made. The unsuccessful in-country M.Sc. training
program should be redesigned.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start in 1980.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective. Fisheries
and engineering consultants have been engaged and are expected to commence
field operations by April 1980. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been
prepared.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Effectiveness of this credit has been delayed due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget and establishment of the joint
project fund.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



-38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 124 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$16.5 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.5 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date:  December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1980 disbursements were US$71.9 million and QAR
had been outstanding for US$1.4 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1980 disbursements were about US$69.3 million and
QAR had been outstanding for US$4.1 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date:  August 29, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds have been fully committed.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
This credit has only recently been declared effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of Taka funds. The
External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance informed the
Resident Mission that the allocation of the required funds (approx. 40 million
Taka) would be released in March 1980. In such case, the project could be
substantially completed by the current closing date, December 31, 1980. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Civil works associated with the tech-
nical education component, although 30 months behind schedule are virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. Project costs (in
dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Host local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works which until the end of 1978 was about
three months ahead of schedule had slowed down in 1979 due to shortage of
local funds. However Funds have now been made available and completion is
still expected within the Credit Closing Date. Training of teachers for the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by transfer
of instructors to the extension staff due to downgrading of salaries.
Little progress has been made on the recruitment of technical assistance
experts, the development of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of
extension staff. The Bank is reviewing the project to determine the relevance
of the technical assistance component, since it appears that the studies of
Agricultural Extension Service (AES) seem to be no longer necessary after the
Training and Visit Sytem (TNV) of extension has been established.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met the
four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager and
architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made available.
The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA appro-
val. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Center
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
has improved; and the internal reorganization of the Population Control and
Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by the management study,
is underway. This reorganization will not be effective in improving program
implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill its large number of
vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions; and (b) simplify the
administrative, financial and recruitment procedures. Actions have been
assured by the Government on both counts. A program has been started for the
retraining of field workers which should improve their performance. While
the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare Centers, built
through community participation, has been encouraging, the progress on other
buildings in the project has been slower than expected. Due to the slow pace
of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than expected
improvements.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
millio-; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1,
1980; ilosing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The closing date of the credit has been extended to June 30, 1980,
by which time all works will be completed and the Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed. Reinstatement of shoulders on the Feni Bypass, opened to
public traffic on July 1, 1979, is virtually complete and repair of isolated
pavement failures was to be completed by the end of February 1980. Finishing
works on the RHD Headquarters building are nearing completion and the building
is largely occupied. The revised final report on the Surma River crossing
is still awaited.  The arbitrators appointed to deal with the contractor's
claims on the Sitalakhya Bridge were unable to reach agreement and the matter
has now been referred to the umpire. No further problems are anticipated with
the project.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$8.25 million (97% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The Borrower has made good progress in calling equipment tenders and
in inviting proposals from approved short-listed consultants. Appointment of
consultants and ECNEC approval of the project proforma are conditions of
Credit effectiveness. Credit Agreement Effectiveness has been extended from
March 20, to June 30, 1980. No major problems are foreseen at this time.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972;  Effective Date:  January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for reter.:on payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have decided on the technique to be adopted
for such equipment (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is
to be made in 1980 for delivery by mid-1982. The rate of physical installa-
tions during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from the
previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Govern-
ment has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively
and should be made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satisfactory
accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the beneficiary,
but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular in considera-
tion of TTB's present and future development requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty-two subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 13 subprojects
totaling about $4.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
expected to be committed within the next few months. The project is pro-
gressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date:  November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
JUTE INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Contract with consultants (ECL/PA)
signed Summer 1977
(b) Agency which prepared project: BJMC, with assistance of consultants
(c) Project first presented to IDA: June 1979
(d) First IDA mission to review project: August 1979
(e) Departure of appraisal mision: December 3, 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations: April 24, 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: 90 days after signature
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) BJMC would complete a reorganization of its activities in
accordance with a satisfactory plan and schedule and using
the assistance of management consultants (paragraph 59);
(b) BJMC would prepare and implement a production oriented
incentive scheme for workers with particular attention to
incentives for workers in the spinning and back processing
departments (paragraph 60);
(c) BJMC would introduce a process accounting system (para-
graph 62);
(d) BJMC would employ a professional accounting firm (para-
graph 63) and a management information system consultant
(paragraph 64);



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)   BJMC and each of the jute mills would have a debt/equity
ratio of no more than 60:40 by December 31, 1983 (paragraph 65);
(f)   The Government would establish a cell within the Jute Ministry
to update semi-annually its pricing and export strategy plan
for raw jute and jute goods (paragraph 72).






t 5 A:}' X : X f :: E :: ::BANGLADESH
.v.\ ,,#?k   yN    n  ) SX      X  S; JUTES INDUSTRYS REHIABILITAT.IONE PROJECT
E 00 ;n~~~~~~~~~~~oat.io~n  1aD  COQ; nd; Proposed 7-nal Bistnbuition of Jute M'ils:
Th.u,-     Si    :iS0rt0  :L   :;i:0  b  Ftc>q fJe rlS 
t   u       50                      Ji  00i 0;     0X    _2*r5a f 29t   E  ;S0  r 0;
D; ;I Nt     R (< \t    _     C,t >g)          3        fv 5wrr   klr?            iq E:
t i . t--9dA -0 ! <Pu  j   ;      i 0    7 - rertrd d       Q f 
t\; ;g i: /;; :; X   t   4 '-50 ('   40  0: Li; f ': 0 0'::Lt;00;t , f9'1'5Zo'U>.18>;tX:M"4rl6.t@rP4tr;:so qi50 0 -t 5= :0:t C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FEN09<t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ES yL  
toz    0    0  j   ;S  >           S  '  y     O  f       B  f  n  2  7  /A.,gr. .. M.,Lh5b 
9:   i N E) i , J  \ v8t :   t0                                            0 ( D(       \ C
v   i: t  e  \s2URMA   !                                       > \ g)}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
\~~~~~~~ ~~~~~    H ANiEH                                                         \\\E Jf \ 
%   : g   >\ -21*           ,  ,       ,      59                           \ t        2Pt _~~~~~~~~~~  I'N 
\   >ar  letrl   z u 3s 92>Klt
AV,P,                                   oM                                      alt       6 g~~~~~~~I
Usrd L^ssa    93                     9t1  0 X              2       .9      st co~I-



