A        CREDIT NUMBER 1032 BD
Project Agreement
(Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1032 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Q   LY    (            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A SOCIATION (hereinafter referred to as
the Association) and BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION (herein-
after referred to as BJMC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter
referred to as the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, provided that BJMC agree to undertake toward the
Association obligations as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BJMC
on terms and conditions agreed between the Borrower and the
Association; and
WHEREAS BJMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit. Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BJMC shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and in accordance with detailed plans and schedules to be mutually
agreed between the Association and BJMC.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) BJMC shall make available part of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, to
selected jute mills in the form of loans from the Borrower for
Parts A and D of the Project, under terms and conditions as set
out in Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) BJMC shall make available to selected jute mills
foreign exchange from the proceeds of the Credit, for Part H of
the Project, against deposits by such jute mills of equiva-
lent amounts of local currency in local financial institutions
into the account of the Borrower.
Section 2.03. In order to assist BJMC in carrying out
the Project, BJMC shall employ:
(a) by September 30, 1980, a management consultant to assist
BJMC prepare a detailed plan for the reorganization of BJMC in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement;
(b) by September 30, 1980, a management information system
consultant to assist BJMC implement its new management informa-
tion system and to assist BJMC extend the said system to include
information flows at its headquaters;
(c) by September 30, 1980, a production incentive consultant
to assist BJMC in reviewing and preparing a production incentive
scheme for workers including those workers referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement; and
(d) by December 31, 1980, a professional accountant firm for
a period of two years to assist BJMC (i) improve BJMC's financial
planning and (ii) consolidate the accounts of BJMC and of the
jute mills;
the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the said consultants, and professional accountant firm
to be mutually acceptable to the Association and BJMC.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) BJMC undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured, or make or caused to be made adequate provision for the


﻿- 3 -
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insu-
rance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by BJMC or jute mills to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, BJMC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BJMC shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) BJMC shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association at regular
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such
proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BJMC and the
Association, BJMC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by BJMC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿(d) BJMC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all relevant plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of BJMC and of jute mills, and
records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) BJMC and the Association shall at the
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of BJMC's obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) BJMC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BJMC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.08. BJMC shall except as the Association may
otherwise agree, carry out a reorganization of its operations
by:
(i)   increasing the number of BJMC's zonal offices
to about 9;
(ii)   conferring upon zonal general managers responsi-
bility for the performance and supervision of
jute mills in their respective zones; and
(iii)   streamlining the organization of BJMC's head-
quarters,
all in accordance with a plan and timetable agreed between the
Association and BJMC.
Section 2.09. BJMC shall carry out or cause to be carried
out a preventive maintenance program under Part H of the Project
in accordance with engineering standards and practices described
in BJMC's current maintenance manuals or such other standards and
practices as may be agreed between the Association and BJMC.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
Section 3.01. BJMC shall take out and maintain or cause to be
taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or make or


﻿- 5 -
cause to be made other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. (a) BJMC shall prepare and adopt, by January 1,
1982, a production incentive scheme for workers in jute mills.
Particular attention will be paid to adopting the incentive
scheme for the spinning and back processing departments, based
upon the installation of the weighing scales provided under Part D
of the Project; and
(b) BJMC shall further review the scheme referred to under
sub-section (a) above, from time to time after suitable experience
under the scheme and make such modifications as may be appro-
priate.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BJMC shall maintain or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Project.
Section 4.02. BJMC shall: (i) have the accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) of BJMC and of each of the jute mills for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of each of the said financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested with appropriate notice; and (iii) furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BJMC and of
each of the jute mills and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Without limitation on the prov4sion of Section
4.02 above, BJMC shall furnish to the Association audited balance
sheets of each of the jute mills not previously provided to the


﻿- 6 -
Association for fiscal years ending June 30, 1976 and 1977 by
September 30, 1980, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1978 by
December 31, 1980, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1979 by
March 31, 1981, and for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1980 by
June 30, 1981.
Section 4.04. BJMC shall introduce, by not later than
July 1., 1981, a process accounting system, satisfactory to the
Association, in each of the jute mills.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BJMC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BJMC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 7 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation:
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
Adamjee Court, Motijheel
Dacca 2, Bangladesh
Cable address:                      Telex:
PATKAL                             826-DACCA
Dacca
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BJMC may be taken or executed by
the Chairman or the Secretary of BJMC or such other person or
persons as the Chairman or the Secretary of BJMC shall designate
in writing, and BJMC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority ar.d the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      (k)JA,~p                    Q/
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH JUTE MILLS CORPORATION
By                                 Rps eCnaLtiv
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BJMC shall prepare and forward or cause to
be prepared and forwarded to th, Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification Lo prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the' goods in question. BJMC shall provide or
cause to be provided the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of BJMC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine rhe lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 11 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Proprietary items may be procured through negotiated con-
tracts or through competitive bidding amongst licensed manu-
facturers, all in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Items costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 per con-
tract may be procured through international shopping in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for civil works under Part E of the Project shall
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, BJMC shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, (a) two conformed copies of such contract, (b)
the details of the offers sought, the names and addresses of the
firms invited to submit offers and a summary of the offers sub-
mitted for goods subject to international shopping, (c) the
bidding documents as well as a report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received for goods subject to international
competitive bidding, and (d) such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. In the event the lowest offer
or bid is not accepted, BJMC shall also furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association the reasons for the award of the
contract to the successful supplier. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of such contract was not consistent
with the provisions of this Schedule or the Guidelines, promptly
inform BJMC and the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 12 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, BJMC shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
3.   Bef:re agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, BJMC shall inform the Asso-
ciation or cause the Association to be informed of the proposed
modification, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Association, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform BJMC and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 0
FOR SECRETARY


