Dom
The Wo         MLfRoliltIHE COPY
Report No.  9820-INLD Type: (POR)
FOROma           WISE, (.     X31679 / T9003/ OEMDD
Report No. 9820
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) PROJECT
(LOAN 2277-IND)
AUGUST 16, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performLnce of
their offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVtALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
EXCHANGE RATES
(end of calendar year)
1983     $1.00     = Rp 994
1984     $1.00     = Rp 1,074
1985     $1.00        Rp 1,125
1986     $1.00     = Rp 1,641
1987     $1.00     = Rp 1,650
1988     $1.00     = Rp 1,731
1989     $1.00     = Rp 1,797
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB          -    Asian Development Bank
ASKRINDO     -    Indonesian Credit Insurance Corporation
BAPINDO      -    Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BI           -    Bank Indonesia
BKPM         -    Investment Coordinating Board
GIP          -    General Improvement Program
GOI          -    Government of Indonesia
JSE          -    Jakarta Stock Exchange
KIK          -    Small Investment Credit
KMKP         -    Small Permanent Working Capital Credit
KUPEDES      -    General Village Credit Program
MIS          -    Management Information System
NAP          -    New Action Program
OTC          -    Over-the-Counter Facility
PCR          -    Project Completion Report
PPAR         -    Project Performance Audit Report
RDB          -    Regional Development Bank
SAR          -    Staff Appraisal Report
SEDP         -    Small Enterprise Development Project
SSEs         -    Small Scale Enterprises
UKJ          -    BAPINDO Department of Treasuring and Banking Services
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31
BAPINDO: January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR 0MCUL USE OLY
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Ofike io Dvrectat-C4al
OpCratin, Evskhatum
August 16, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EKE-UTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Fifth Bank
Pembanmunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) Proiect (Loan 2277-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Fifth Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
Project (Loan 2277-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLFTION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTI BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) PROJECT
(LOAN 2277-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....... .  .  .  .   . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .   .       iii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .     1
Introduction  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
The Manufacturing Sector  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  3
The Financial Sector  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..   3
Project Objectives, Design and Formulatior .   . . . . . . . .     5
Project Objectives  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  5
Project Design and Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
BAPINDO's Management, Organization and Staffing . . . . . . . .    6
The Use of the Bank Loan  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  8
Rate of UtAlization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Characteristics of Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Operational Performance of Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Technical Assistance and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
BAPINDO's Operating and Financial Performance . . . . . . . . .   11
Operating Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Financial Performance ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .   .    13
Project Sustainability  ....  .  .   .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    17
Project Implementation by the Government .      . . . . . . . . . .   18
Studies Financed by the Loan  ... .    .    . .  . ......   .    18
Project Management and Supervision by the Bank .     . . . . . . .   19
Project Preparation ano Formulation .       . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Volume and Effectiveness of Supervision . . . .    . . . . . . .   19
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . .      . . . . . . . . . .   21
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .  . . . .   22
Bank's Performance During the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Borrower's Performance During the Project . . . . . . . . . . .   23
A.  BAPINDO ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    23
B.  Government Ministries ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
Relationship between BAPINDO and the Bank during the Project  .   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)                                         Page No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits    . . . .      . . . . . . .   26
2. Project Timetable .  . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .  . .  . . .   27
3. Loan Disbursements ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......... .    27
4. Project Results .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
5. Status of Covenants  ....  .  .  .  . .....    ........ .    29
6. Use of Bank Resourcws  .   . . . .   .   . . . . . . . . . .. .    31
Chart A:  Organization Chart  . . . . . ... .                          33
ANNEXES:
1. Disbursement Schedule  ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    35
2.  Disbursements by Category  ... .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   .    36
3.  Subprojects Financed from the Loan as of December 31, 1989 . .   37
4.  Summarized Data on Subprojects ... .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   .    39
5.  Sectoral Distribution of Subprojects . . . . . . . . . ..  .    40
6.  Characteristics of Subproject Financed Under Loan 2277-IND . .   42
7.  Financial Performance of Subprojects . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
8. Economic Performance of Subprojects  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   48
9.  Subproject Loan Arrears as of December 31, 1989  . . . . . . .   51
10.  Use of Consultants' and Training Funds . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
11.  Characteristic of Industrial Loans Committed, 1984-1989  . . .   54
12.  Characteristic of Maritime Loans Committed, 1984-1989  . . . .   57
13.  Approvals and Disbursements of Loans and Investments,
1984-1989 .... . . . ... ....                                   60
14.  Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1984-1989 .  .       61
15.  Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ending
December  31, 1984-1989  . . . . .   .  .      . . . . . . .    63
16.  Financial Indicators and Ratios, 1984-1989 . . . . . . . . . .   64
17.  Indicators of Portfolio Performance. 1984-1989 . .  . . . . .   65
18.  Analysis of Term Portfolio in Arrears  . . . . . . . . . . . .   66
19.  Bapindo's Lending Interest Rates and Other Charges
as of April 30, 1990 . . . . . . . . e0 . . . .  . . . . . .   69
20.  Domestic Resource Mobilization, 1984-1989  . . . . . . . . . .   70
21.  Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization, 1974-1990  . . . . . .   71
22.  Financial Projections          . . . . . . . . ..       .  . .   72
23.  GOI's TA Component.. . . . . . . .                       .77



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH BANK PENiARGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) PROJECT
(LOAN 2277-IND)
PREFACE
This  is the Project Completion Report  (PCR) for the F4fth  Bank
Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2277-IND in
the amount of $208.9 mill'on was approved on May 10, 1983. The loan was closed
on June 30, 1989, one year behind schedule. Total disbursements under the loan.
after cancellation of $55.16 million, amounted to $153.74 million. The last
disbursement was on January 9, 1990. The Borrower was the Republic of Indonesia
which onlent $203.3 million equivalent in Rupiahs to BAPINDO, of which $147.1
millioLL was used for subproject finance ($143.4 million), technical assistance
($3.2 million), and a front-end fee ($0.5 million).  The Borrower vised $6.6
million of the loan resources for sectoral and policy studies ard related
training.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry & Energy Operations
Division of Country Department V, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), BAPINDO and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in August 1989, and is based, inter
aiia, on the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports; the Loan and Project
Agreementst supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Bor-
rower; internal Bank memoranda; and a project completion mission in May/June
1990.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) PROJECT
(LOAN 2277-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The loan was designed and instrumented as a credit line with objectives
to provide foreign exchange for: (i) the financing of economically viable
industrial projects and the purchase of ships (maximum 30 percent of the loan
component); (ii) techn-tal assistance to ensure the continued sound development
of the a.nk Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) as an effective financial interme-
diary; and (iii) sectoral and policy studies by the Government in support of
industrial development in the next Five Year Plan period (1984-89). This was the
fifth loan to BAPTNDO for industrial financing since 1972, when BAPINDO received
two IDA credits totalling $17 million, one for financing industrial projects
(Credit 310-IND) and one entirely for the financing of maritime projects (Credit
318-IND). They all had as main objectives to develop BAPINDO's institutional
capabilities and to assist the financing of viable industrial projects in
Indonesia. The previous loans and credits, totalling $157 million, were covered
in PPARs dated June 27, 1979 (Credit 310-IND), March 25, 1983 (Credit 318-IND)
and September 10. 1986 (Loans 1054, 1437 and 1703-IND).
Imnlementation Experience
2.       The loan was approved on May 10, 1983, and declared effective on
October 19,  1983.   The loan's principal objectives as a credit line were
achieved, i.e., sound projects were financed by Bank funds. However, the actual
implementation took longer than expected. The final commitment date was post-
poned from June 30, 1985, to March 31. 1987, and the closing date was extended
by one year to June 30, 1989. Both economic and institutional factors affected
the pace of loan commitments and disbursements: (i) the deep economic recession
in the Indonesian economy in '983/84 and the fall in the oil price in 1985/86
reduced demand for industrial finance; and (ii) BAPINDO's preoccupation with its
own deteriorating financial situation and portfolio arrears.
3.       The appraisal report was optimistic about both BAPINDO's financial
condition and quality of portfolio, as well as the economic and industrial
prospects of the country, but the picture that emerged during loan implementation
was different. Soon after the loan became effective, the quality of BAPINDO's
portfolio deteriorated. The origins of this development can be found, first of
all, in the rapid expansion of BAPINDO's loan approvals in 1978-1982, which
exceeded the institution's capacity to appraise and supervise projects (PPAR
dated September 1986).   Secondly, the generally overly optimistic appraisal
forecasts by BAPINDO resulted in very tight repayment schedules for the subproj-
ects, that caused arrears whenever implementation was delayed or production and



- iv -
sales were less than projocted (para. 28).4/ Thirdly, a major financial reform
was introduced in June 1983, which deregulated interest rates, removed credit
ceilings and considerably increased the cost and availability of credit
(para. 5).   Finally, when in 1985/86 the economic environment deteriorated
further due to the steep fall in the price of oil, performance of many BAPINDO
projects became poor. By 1986, when the PPAR for the earlier loans was prepared,
BAPINDO was in a difficult financial position requiring a major capital restruc-
turing and liquidity injection by the Government.   The PPAR concluded that
BAPINDO was not sustainable in its then existing form (page ix of PPAR dated
September 10, 1986). To redress the situation, a series of measures were taken.
In 1986, the Government provided new capital and restructured its loans to
BAPINDO (para. 43). In 1986-87 a general portfolio rehabilitation program was
designed and isU'plemented with the help of consultants (paras. 30 and 61).
Further, in 1987. a reorganization took place which aimed at reducing redundant
staff, improving operational efficiency, and strengthening internal controls
(paras. 20 and 21). Finally, after 1987, BAPINDO broadened its operations to
include, besides project financing, a wider range of financial services, such as
export financing, underwriting and general banking services (paras. 35, 41 and
50).
Results
4.       BAPINDO used $143.4 million of loan funds to finance 76 subprojects.
Loan implementation was generally successful: (i) projects generated 10,033 jobs
at an average cost of $37,800 per job; (ii) arrears on the Bank loans amounted
to a satisfactory 4 percent; (iii) the projects financed were generally of medium
size; and (iv) projects included a broad spectrum of industrial subsectors -
textile, metal proeucts, cement, wood processing -- accounting for 76 percent of
total loan amount, as well as tourism and shipping, accounting for about 8 per-
cent and 15 percent of the total respectively (paras. 23-29).
5.       The project was lass successful in achieving the appraisal objectives
for the technical assistance program to help BAPINDO implement a comprehensive
three year Action Program, which started as planned in 1983. The program, which
was supposed to (i) strengthen project appraisal capability; (ii) improve
supervision skills and procedures; (iii) streamline personnel planning; (iv) im-
prove management information and reporting systems; and (v) strengthen the branch
network, was strong on design (manuals) but weak on actual implementation and
operational follow-up. Consequently, while the technical assistance resources
were fully utilized, their effective use has been limited. Part of the blame for
le"s than adequate results can be traced to the terms of reference for the
consultants, which gave insufficient emphasis to the practical application of
tools and techniques.  To correct this deficiency, in 1987-88 a program for
evaluating and improvin3 the portfolio was adopted with more practical and useful
results. The utilization and results of the training funds are more difficult
to assess. Some training courses were more interesting than useful. BAPINDO's
staff did gain valuable knowledge and insight in many aspects of development
banking, but probably at a rather high cost (paras. 30, 31, 58 and 60).
1/ References are to paragraphs in Part I of the report.



v
Sustainabilitv
6.       On the basis of the Bank's evaluation of subprojects supported under the
loan, the expected benefits of industrial subloans, with some recent exceptions,
are being sustained.  With regard to the institution, before 1987 BAPINDO's
operations were essentially conditioned by continued direct Government financial
support and intervention in the projects financed by BAPINDO.   Since 1987,
BAPINDO's sustainability depends more on the Government concinuing to follow
sound macro-economic policies as well as BAPINDO's own ability to follow proper
project selectd i criteria and to manage its own financial affairs on the basis
of sound banking principles.  In particular, BAPINDO will need to assign top
priority to developing a sound resource mobilization strategy, a task that will
entail a formidable challenge. In the Indonesian context and given the fact that
the Government remains the only shareholder, however, some direct influence by
the Government in BAPINDO's affairs will be unavoidable for the time being.
However, the new Banking Law submitted to the Parliament is likely to provide for
a differcent banking system. In particular, the draft law calls for the trans-
formation of all state-owned banks into limited liability companies; thus BAPINDO
will have to compete with other banks in the system.  Efficiency and profit-
ability will be guiding operations, which should be sustained without recourse
to Government financing and with selective external borrowings.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.       The appraisal report did not recognize the importance of the changes
needed in the economic environment as a condition of the proposed loan. Some
staff had commented on this at the time of the decision meeting and during Board
presentation, some EDs questioned the need for more macro-economic condition-
ality. A "parallel track" approach was selected by the Bank, i.e., the proposed
loan to support investment and a policy dialogue between the Bank and GOI to
discuss potential options for deregulation of the economy. In hindsight, actions
by GOI to convert the overregulated economy to a market-oriented system might
well have been taken earlier when the oil resources permitted it. As it was,
these actions were taken by GOI, pragmatically and successfully, over a period
of seven years (1983-90), spanning all economic activities, sectors (including
industrial) and tools of economic policy (financial, fiscal, trade, pricing,
exchange rate) {pares. 19, 57 and 58).
8.       It is also important to remember that, in 1982, the Bank did not have
the benefit of a financial intermediation strategy nor a good understanding of
the required policy framework in which DFCs operate effectively (paras. 8-13).
Some Bank project evaluation concepts, dating from the 1970s, which tried to
design tools for determining the economic viability of projects in a distorted
economic environment, attached little importance to the profitability and
commercial attractiveness of projects.   This often led to the financing of
unsustainable projects and explains the high level of arrears and rescheduling
in 1985/86 (paras. 23, 28, 42 and 43). The new approach to DFC financing (i.e.
after 1985), that puts priority on ensuring that the overall economic and
financial environment is not distorted and thus is conducive to industrial
development, permits DFCs to finance sustainable projects (para. 44). Another
outdated concept of the 1970s, which is dying slowly, is the idea that develop-
ment banks (and particularly state-owned ones) should be sources of last resort.
This has lead many DFCs (including BAPINDO) to finance projects that no commer-
cial bank would sponsor. The new approach of state-owned banks competing on an



- vi -
equal footing with private banks, in a less distorted and less regulated environ-
ment, is likely to foster more financially viable banks and industrial projects.
9.       The type, amount and form of technical assistance provided to BAPINDO
seemed to have been less conditioned by BAPINDO's needs for such assistance, as
bv the Bank's approach at the time that no loan should be given without it. With
a better understanding of these nbeds, the consultants' terms of reference for
the action program would have been drafted differently and some of the implemen-
tation problems of the action program which came up in 1985/86 could have been
avoided or mitigated. Also, in the early months of implementation, BAPINDO was
not fully committed to tne technical assistance and thus did not organize itself
properly. In addition, if the Bank had then devoted more supepvision on the
assistance provided, it would probably havsi been able to recommend significant
changes to make the consultants' scope of work more application oriented.
Assistance for portfolio rehabilitation and management advisory services were
properly designed and implemented and thus led to overall improvements in
BAPINDO's performance.
10.       The training program contributed positively to enhancing the skills of
BAPINDO's professional staff.  However, the overall outcome of the training
program would have been improved by combining formal and on-the-job activities
more effectively.  Moreover, the absence of a well-defined policy on staff
assignment after training constrained the spill-over effects of trainees'
experience on other staff and the benefits of the treining activities in the
long-term (paras. 30, 31, 59 and 60).
11.       The main conclusion is that provision for technical assistance and
training to strengthen a financial institution like BAPINDO needs to go beyond
the prevailing corporate and institutional philosophies and to consider also the
future role of the institution receiving a Bank loan in a dynamic, market-
oriented environment.
12.       Some important lessons are derived from the 17 studies finenced under
the loan: (a) more attention should be paid to TOR, to increase their relevance
in terms of their contribution to problem resolution; (b) a proper mechanism
should be in place to ensure full discussion of reports and appropriate follow-up
to recommendations; (c) Bank supervision efforts need to be better planned and
implemented; and (d) suitable GOI counterparts need to be appointed (para. 55).
13.       The competence of BAPINDO's management has been a key issue during
project implementation. As a result of repeated recommendations made by Bank
supervision missions, some important changes were made at top management levels,
mainly through internal promotions. However, no outside managing directors with
commercial experience were appointed, with the result that BAPINDO has remained
an inward-looking institution (para. 18).
14.       Overall, Loan 2277-IND appears to have helped BAPINDO to make progress
towards becoming a more operationally efficient, financially viable and sustain-
able institution. Once the new banking legislation is adopted, BAPINDO would
face the challenge of a competitive financial sector. Efficiency and profit-
ability will be guiding BAPINDO's operations and its sustainability would be
mainly dependent upon the effectiveness of its management and staff, without
recourse to Government financing and with selective external borrowings.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) PROJECT
(LOAN 2277-IND)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
Prosect Identity
Project Name            s      Fifth BAPINDO Project
Loan Number             :      2277-IND
RVP Unit                :      Asia Region
Country                        Republic of Indonesia
Sector                  s      Finance and Industry
Subsector               :      IDF
BackRround
1.        On May 25, 1990, the Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) celebrated
its 30th anniversary as a wholly government-owned financial institution
specializing in the term financing of industrial and maritime projects. The
Bank-group has been associated with BAPINDO for the last 20 years, initially with
technical assistance only, but since 1972 also financially, when IDA made two
credits totalling $17 million, one for financing industrial projects (Credit 310-
IND) and one for the financing of maritime projects (Credit 318-IND). As were
all the other loans and credits that benefitted BAPINDO, Loan 2277-IND, amounting
to $208.9 million, was made to the Government of Indonesia (GOI) which onlent
$203.3 million to BAPINDO for industrial project financing and technical assis-
tance. The loan brought the total amount lent to BAPINDO to $360.3 million. In
March 1989, the Bank made two more loans to the Government: the Industrial
Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND) and the Small and Medium Industrial
Enterprise Project (Loan 3041-IND), of which $29.5 million and $10 million,
respectively, were passed on to BAPINDO.
2.        The 1970s were years during which GOI implemented a closely regulated
development program helped by large and increasing oil revenues, an important
part of which was channeled by GOI into the industrial and agricultural sectors.
GOI's industrial policies at that time had as main objectives to develop indige-
nous entrepreneurs, supplying mainly the local market with essential products
(textiles, processed foods, furniture and building materials) and setting up some
large state-owned capital intensive companies for the production of products
considered of strategic importance, like cement, fertilizers, steel and chem-
icals.  To implement this policy the Government used traditional financial .td
trade policy tools like subsidized credit for specific sectors and promoters,
import protection both in the form of prohibitive tariffs and quantitative
restrictions, and direct investment licensing and price controls.



- 2 -
3.        In the five-year period (1978-82) 'Jefore Loan 2277-IND was granted.
BA?INDO expanded rapidly, with loan approv&ls doubling annually.   This fast
growth reflected the increasing importance of the industrial sector, whose share
in GDP had grown from 14 percent in 1960, and 20 percent in 1970, to 33 percent
in 1980. The largest part of this growth was on account of energy and oil but
increasingly on account of manufacturing, which grew by 12 percent per annum in
the 1970s. However, in 1980, the manufacturing sector still represented only
about 11.5 percent of GDP (and 5 percent of total exports). The appraisal report
noted the shortcomings in industrial policies (particularly those that were
biased in favor of capital intensive, import substitution and public enterprises)
and the need to streamline licensing and Government approval procedures. The
financial sector was still dominated by the five state-owned commercial banks
which had, as of December 31, 1981, 80 percent of all assets of deposit money
banks.  Bank Indonesia (BI) exercised tight control over deposit and lending
rates as well as credit expansion and provided the state banks the bulk of their
financing through liquidity credits and rediscount facilities. There were 79
private national commercial banks (with 5 percent of the deposits), 10 foreign
Danks and three DFCs. The Jakarta stock exchange listed 13 companies.
4.        In contrast with the 1970s, Indonesia faced a much worse environment
in the 1980s as a consequence of two external shocks. First, the decline of the
real price of oil (by about 60 percent between 1983 and 1989) had a massive
effect on the economy, as oil accounted for 81 percent of exports and 71 percent
of Government revenues in 1981/82. Oil exports as a percentage of total exports
fell to 38.3 percent in 1988/89. To offset the fall in export earnings non-oil
imports fell by 11.7 percent in 1985 and in order to maintain consumption levels,
the savings rate dropped by more than 4 percent from 1985 to 1986 (to 17.5
percent of GDP).   Second, the depreciation of the US dollar during 1985-88
increased the debt service ratio as a large part of the debt was denominated in
non-dollars while most of the export earnings were valued in dollars. Medium-
and long-term debt service as a percentage of total exports increased from 16.8
percent in 1982/83 to 37.5 percent in 1986/87.
5.        As a consequence of the external shocks, the 1983-89 period was
characterized by a series of adjustments and policy changes which had as main
objectives to reduce the country's dependence on oil ani to make Indonesia's
economy more efficient and market-oriented.   To restore balance of payments
stability and to improve the external competitiveness of the non-oil sector, the
Government implemented two ma4or devaluations (28 percent in 1983 to Rp 909=1$
and 31 percent in 1986 to Rp 1,644=1$) and generally followed a floating exchange
rate policy which would continue to secure convertibility. Fiscal balance was
restored by reducing Government expenditures, including Government investments,
and implementing tax reforms, which boosted non-oil tax revenues between 1984-86.
A major financial reform was introduced in June 1983, which deregulated interest
rates and removed credit ceilinbs.   Further reforms, especially directed at
relaxing institutional requirements to set up banks and open branches and
widening the scope of activities of financial intermediaries, were adopted in
_..tober 1988. These measures had as main objective to increase the competition
between financial institutions and to improve the efficiency of the financial and
capital market. A number of trade measures, introduced in steps from 1983-90,
to decrease quantitative restrictions and to make tariffs less discriminatory,
were intended to reduce further the effective protection of Indonesian indus-
tries. Further actions were to reduce regulations for investment by local and
foreign companies, import and export licensing and price subsidies.



-3-
The Manufacturing Sector
6.        The manufacturing sector grew on average by about 11 percent per annum
in real terms in the period 1975-85, when GDP increased by 6.5 percent per annum.
The growth rate decreased in 1985/86 on account of the recession but since then
has accelerated to about 12.5 percent per annum in 1988/89. It is estimated that
the share of the sector in GDP increased to 14.4 percent in 1989. Consumer and
intermediate products contributed about equally to this growth. Non traditional
manufactured products, like shoes, paint, glass, electronics, metal products,
wood products, etc. play increasingly important roles, with growth rates of 40
percent per annum in some products. It is expected that the manufacturing sector
will continue to grow rapidly in the medium term.
7.        The manufacturing sector is expected to absorb a much larger share
(13.9 percent in the year 2000) of employment than in the past (9.8 percent in
1989. 6.0 percent in 1982 and 2.7 percent in 1971). This reflects the expected
continued rapid rate of growth of the sector, particularly in relatively labor-
intensive activities. Other sectors, like construction and transport 3ervices,
have generally experienced lower growth rates than the manufacturing sector;
these two sectors account together for about 11 percent of GDP in 1988, similar
as 10 years ago.   However, the need to improve communication and transport
services, in order to better serve Indonesia's manufacturing base, is widely
recognized and the growth of these sectors is expected to surpass the average
growth of GDP, increasing its share in GDP from 46.5 percent estimated in 1989
to 52.1 percent in the year 2000.
The Financial Sector
8.        Between 1982, when the loan was approved, and today considerable
changes have taken place in all aspects of the financial sector. However, the
developments described in the following paragraphs do not yet fully reflect the
impact of the financial policy changes of October 1988 and January 1990. While
in 1981 the state banks had 80 percent of all assets of deposit money banks, this
percentage had fallen to about 69 percent in March 1989 (still large. but an
important decrease). More indicative of the decreasing importance of the state
banks is the fact that private national commercial banks increased their share
in total deposits (demand, time and savings) to 31.5 percent in March 1989 from
5 percent in December 1981. The growth of the financial sector from Rp 31.6
trillion at the end of 1982 to Rp 131.9 billion in October 1989 has been spec-
tacular and as a consequence, even with the rapid growth of GNP, the ratio of M2
to GNP increased from 21.5 percent in 1982 to 33 percent in October 1989. A
four-fold increase of time and savings deposits between 1984 and 1989 was a major
contributor to the growth of M2. An equally important indicator of the growth
of the sector is the increase in the number of financial institutions since the
1988 reforms. Private national commercial banks, which due to mergers and take-
overs had decreased to 63 in March 1989, increased to a current 80, while bank
branches increased by about 400 and other credit institutions by almost 1,700
(mainly village and paddy banks). This financialization in size and diversity
of the economy is an indication of Indonesia's general economic progress.
9.        Although the institutional side of the financial sector has developed
quickly in the last four years, the number of debt and other financial instru-
ments (particularly those for hedging interest rates, maturities and exchange
risks) remain limited. Banks still dominate the financial scene partly because



of the lack of development of new financial instruments. However, the virtually
monopolistic position of the state-owned banks has been broken and with time and
increasing competition, the smaller private institutions will be able to increase
their market share. The diversification, deregulation and enlargement of the
financial sector will improve its efficiency as expressed in declining intermedi-
ation and administrative costs and, ultimately, financial margins.   These
competitive elements will, however, also create risks as some institutions are
likely to run ahead too fast in their search for market share. The containment
of speculative excess without recourse to too strict direct controls will be a
test for the monetary authorities.
10.       One of the most important instruments of monetary and credit policy has
been the use of so-called liquidity credits to the banking sector. These credits
were made available predominantly (85 percent) through state banks in the form
of rediscounting of loans to specific sectors (agriculture and industry) and for
specific purposes (long-term lending to industry in general but more specifically
for SSEs, so called KIK/KMKP, and lately for exports).   These facilities,
refinancing up to 70-80 percent of the principal, were heavily subsidized and
generally had negative real interest rates. They had as primary objectives to
allocate credit to priority sectors and to provide liquidity to the economy. At
the same time, they secured the prime role and profitability of the state banks,
because the financial margin on these credits was generally around 7 percent.
BAPINDO was one of the main beneficiaries of these credits.
11.       In January 1990, the nature of the liquidity credits was changed
considerably: the refinancing interest rate was increased to the rate paid on one
month deposits (about 14 percent per annum in June 1990) permitting a much
smaller financial margin (3-5 percent) on term lending by BAPINDO while the
refinancing share by BI was decreased to 40-50 percent. An exception was made
for the term financing of estate crops investments which was allowed a 65 percent
refinancing share and a refinancing rate of 9 percent, permitting a 5 percent
margin. Since its introduction, BAPINDO has already approved Rp 2.5 trillion for
some 52 estate projects. While the importance of this sector to the country and
its semi-industrial nature justify BAPINDO financing, it seems altogether too
much and too fast.l/ Excluded from the revised liquidity credit facility were
SSEs. Instead, a 20 percent obligatory share of total new loan approvals to be
financed from own funds was instituted for this sector. The 20 percent provision
is a financial policy objective reflecting the Government's concern over the
access of SSEs to formal finance, in the light of the reform of the liquidity
credit programs. There is some concern that banks will have to reduce credit
terms and creditworthiness standards to comply with the 20 percent requirement.
12.       One of the most significant achievements of the reforms since 1983 has
been that interest rates across the board have generally been positive in real
terms and essentially market determined. While before the oil price decline the
interest and exchange rates reflected the efficiency of the oil sector, the drop
in oil prices required a rapid adjustment in these rates to the new conditions
if Indonesia wanted to maintain an open economy in terms of capital flows and
currency convertibility. In particular, interest rates had to be sufficiently
high to maintain reasonable exchange rate stability and to avoid capital out-
flows. At the same time, the relativr.ly high interest rates had to secure both
.1/ Subsequently, Bapindo has reduced the approvals to Rp 1.9 trillion.



- 5 -
monetary equilibrium and a sufficiently high level of private savings for
investment purpose (and to replace the previous Government savings from oil
revenues). These objectives have largely been achieved. However, the high levels
of interest rates (with overnight rates as high as 35 percent in June 1990) do
reflect some of the speculative excesses present in the financial system, which
may crowd out economically more deserving borrowers. The effects of the changes
in interest rate policies on BAPINDO's financial position and portfolio are
described in paras. 42-44.
13.       The October 1988 measures also addressed  4ie direction of the future
development of the capital market, including: a more equal tax treatment of debt
instruments (including deposits). the establishment of an Over The Counter (OTC)
share market, permission for private operation of the stock exchanges, allowing
foreigners to buy up to 49 percent of the share of a company, increasing under-
writing permits to more private domestic and foreign firms, and the establishment
of several mutual funds (both on and off shore). The number of listed companies
on the Jakarta Stock Exchange (JSE), which had been 24 for years, increased to
89 by the end of 1989. Trading volume and turnover increased rapidly and so did
volatility with the index going from 300 at the beginning of 1989 to a high of
500 in September and down to 400 in December and up again to an all-time high of
over 650 in April. BAPINDO is the only bank permitted to do underwriting, and
is a member of the stock exchange and performs brokerage, trust bank and agency
services.
Proiect Objectives. Design and Formulation
Proiect Obiectives
14.       The loan had the usual objectives of DFC type lending: institution
building for BAPINDO and resource transfer to viable industrial projects. The
technical assistance component of the loan was also two-pronged and followed
closely these objectives:
-    $2.8 million, to help BAPINDO become more efficient operationally,
better structured organizationally and more knowledgeable and ex-
perienced in staffing; and
-    $5.6 million,  to assist  the Government to design better sector
strategies and prepare better industrial projects for implementation
in the next five-year plan.
Project Desi&n and Formulation
15.       Originally the size of the loan was proposed to be $40 million.
However, the economy was growing fast and BAPINDO had a project pipeline of $2.5
billion and approvals were about doubling annually. The loan size was increased
first to $85 million and finally to over $200 million despite important institu-
tional shortcomings of BAPINDO, which were recognized in the appraisal report.
To overcome them, a General Improvement Program (GIP), identified by consultants
in March 1981,-was included in a New Action Program (NAP) for implementation in
1983/84. The elements of this program, which was to be financed by the Bank's
loan, were clearly specified (para 2.03 of the Staff Appraisal Report).



16.       The main risks associated with the project were identified to be:
"First, BAPINDO could resume a rapid expansion of its operations program before
the completion of the extensive staff upgrading and institutional reforms
envisaged under the project over the next two year. Second, given the tightening
budgetary resource position, public pressure on EAPINDO to undertake large public
sector projects could mount over the next two years and could jeopardize the
quality of its portfolio and the level of assistance to the private sector" (para
5.09 of Staff Appraisal Report). As will be shawn below, most of the weaknesses
in the portfolio date from the fast growth before 1982, the NAP was implemented
too late and inadequately to resolve real problems and the financing of public
sector projects never became a real problem even when Government revenues
declined after the fall of oil prices.
17.       The loan was made to the Government at a variable interest rate, which
in turn onlent $203.3 million equivalent in Rupiah to BAPINDO and used $6.6
million for policy and sectoral studies, and related training. The Government
assumed the foreign exchange risk. BAPINDO would pay the Government the Bank's
variable interest rate with a ceiling of 11 percent. Of the onlent resources,
$200 million was for subprojects. $2.8 million for technical assistance and
training and $0.5 million for front-end fee. The amortization schedule would
reflect the aggregate of the repayment schedules of the subprojects financed from
the loan. The free limit for subproject was $2 million, the maximum size of a
subloan $6 million, and the aggregate of free limit subloans, $8u million. The
debt equity limit was agreed at 6:1. No policy conditions were linked to the
loan. During Board discussion of the loan it was explained, in response to a
question from an ED on this matter, that it had been judged inappropriate to link
policy reform to one particular loan because of the complexity of the policy
issues involved.
BAPINDO's Management. Organization and Staffing
18.       BAPINDO's management structure has remained essentially unchanged over
the twenty years that it has been associated with the Bank. The Supervisory
Board, composed of two Government representatives from the BI and the Ministry
of Finance, has not been enlarged despite repeated recommendations by the Bank
to do so. The Managing Board of five directors, all appointed by the Government,
has been rejuvenated in the last five years. A new President director, Mr.
Subekti Ismaun, was appointed in December 1985 and the four other directors, all
internal promotions except one who came from Bank Indonesia, were appointed
during 1986-88. However, since no outside managing directors with commercial
experience were appointed, BAPINDO has remained essentially an inward-looking
institution.
19.       The 1986 PPAR devoted four pages to institutional developments from
1972-1985. It faulted particularly the management structure and lack of autonomy
for the poor financial situation and operational prospects. That conclusion may
not have taken full account of the Indonesian culture which emphasizes consensus,
compromise and cooperation, rather than autonomy, accountability and authority.
Neither did it give full weight to the difficulty for a government owned develop-
ment bank to go against formulated and accepted Government policy, which at the
time gave high priority to developing the industrial sector to employ a larger
part of the population, diversifying its economic base and reducing its de-
pendence on imports from abroad. While the PPAR was correct in recommending a
strengthened and enlarged Board of Supervisors in order to get more diverse



-7 -
views, to decrease direct Government intervention and to put more emphasis on
staff development and technical competence, it may have underestimated the
effects of the broader economic context (particularly the over-regulated economy
and the effect of oil revenues). Since then -- as described in the section on
the Environment, para. 4 to 13 -- measures to correct the distorted environment
have helped BAPINDO and the projects it has financed to function in a more
market-oriented way.
20.        Since the beginning of  1988, when the  last reorganization was
implemented and redundant staff offered early retirement, and as a result of
recommendations from the Bank's supervision missions, more emphasis has been
placed on staff development and motivation. Results, competence and efficiency
rather than seniority are now staff performance and promotion criteria. Profes-
sional initiative and client responsiveness are encouraged. Overall, BAPINDO's
management can be considered competent and well qualified. However, in its
external relations and decisions BAPINDO remains, to a considerable (though
decreasing) extent, dependent on Government policy and support. On the one hand,
BAPINDO will now approve loans before refinancing from BI is obtained, charging
a higher rate if such refinancing is not approved by EI. On the other hand, as
a sign of continued dependence on the Government, BAPINDO's administrative
expense budget for 1990, which includes its basic work programs, was only
approved on June 26, 1990, after four revisions and almost six months into the
fiscal year, because the exact consequences of the new policies enacted in
January 1990 were not yet properly assessed and reflected in BAPINDO's budget.
This is a sign that the limits of BAPINDO's independence from the Government are
ambivalent, which will remain the case as long as the Government is its sole
shareholder.  Because Bapindo has not asked the Government for new financial
support since 1987, its budgetary and administrative independence is, however,
becoming more assured. With overall deregulation and the Government's stated
objectives of increased market orientation of the economy, it is likely that
BAPINDO will also become operationally more autonomous from direct Government
interventions.
21.       BAPINDO's internal organization (Chart A) is functional and responds
to its basic business orientation. In total it has 14 Departments. Its main
operational activities are centered in three project financing departments, which
are organized along sectoral lines. They each report to a different managing
director, which ensures shared operational responsibility. Project departments
are responsible for appraisal and supervision.   However,  all projects are
initially screened by the branches, which are becoming more and more important
with 57 percent of all the staff and 46 percent of all professional staff. They
have authority to approve loans up to Rp 200 million (about $105,000), which
represented less than 1.0 percent of the total loan amount approved in 1989.
Since the January 1990 regulation requiring that at least 20 percent of loan
approvals are for SSEs, the importance of branches has increased considerably and
new review and approval procedures have been adopted to ensure proper control and
avoid collusion. Branches are also responsible for supervision and loan collec-
tion, with the Head office staff available for special technical or financial
expertise in case of need. This concerns primarily the Projects Rehabilitation
Department, which supervises all projects with arrears over one year. Another
operational department that provides back-up services for appraisal is the
Consultancy and Promotion Department. In 1985-87, when new business was slack
and promoters less sophisticated, the department was busy identifying and
assisting new entrepreneurs. Now that the economy is growing rapidly and demand



for project finance outstripping supply, the department provides specialized
assistance internally. The Accounting and Budget Department and the Information
Systems Departments combine all the controllers', accounting, budgeting and
reporting functions. The Treasurer's and Banking Services Department is becoming
increasingly important because of the need to diversify the financial resources.
It is also responsible for the cash management and capital market operations
(underwriting, brokerage, securities business). Because of the fast growth and
diversity of activities, the department's staffing and know-how may be somewhat
strained. The Peraonnel, Internal Audit, Research and Development, Corporate
Affairs, Planning and General Services departments complete BAPINDO's organiza-
tion.
22.       BAPINDO's staff has grown by about 20 percent in the last two and a
half years (Attachment to Chart A), from about 1,200 in 1987 to about 1,450
today. In 1988, there was a reorganization which permitted about 200 redundant
staff to retire early.  This has enabled BAPINDO to rejuvenate its staff by
hiring 131 university graduates and 220 bachelnr degree holders.   The total
number of professional staff of about 650 has, however, not grown at all since
1982. Therefore most of the growth stems from clerical and support staff, which
is due to the opening and expansion of branches, and to the increase in general
banking services, which requires more clerical support than project financing.
At the same time Bapindo has allocated more of its senior staff to the branches
and general banking services. The number of branches has increased from 18 in
1982 to 27 today (including one in Hong Kong), while the total staff in branches
increased from 342 (of which 167 professionals) in 1982 to 824 (of which 267
professionals) now. The importance of the branches for performing appraisal and
supervision, ensuring collection of loans but also for attracting deposits and
developing client relations is an organizational and operational aspect which the
SAR did not pay attention to.   For Indonesia, the establishment of banking
services in the provinces has been an important condition for economic develop-
ment. For BAPINDO, branches are essential for developing business particularly
for new and small clients, who would find it impossible to do their banking
through the Jakarta Head office.
The Use of the Bank Loan
Rate of Utilization
23.        Loan utilization was much slower than expected, initially because of
the slow-down in the Indonesian economy in 1983/84. following the Government's
measures to avoid a budget deficit, to restore the balance of payments and to
liberalize the financial market, which generally increased the cost of funds and
decreased their availability. Further delays in 1985/86 were due to the fall in
oil prices and additional measures to restore fiscal and economic equilibrium.
BAPINDO's preoccupation with its own financial situation and portfolio (paras.
42 - 44), added to the slow utilization.
24.       Because of these internal and external circumstances, the original last
date for submission of subproiects, June 30, 1985, had to be postponed to March
31, 1987. Of the 30 A-projects (above the free limit of $2 million), 26 were
realized, while 50 of the original 62 B-projects were completed. The original
closing date for disbursements was June 30, 1988. Because of the slow commitment
only about two-thirds of the loan amount was disbursed at that date ar.d the Bank
agreed to postpone the closing date by one year. At the same time, the non-



-9-
committed part of the loan of $31.0 million was canceled. The last disbursement
was made in January 1990, when the remaining undisbursed balance of $24.1 million
was canceled. In total $153.7 million of the loan was utilized of which $143.4
million was for subprojects. Annex 1 shows the actual and projected disburse-
ments schedule of the loan, while Annex 2 shows the overall utilization.
Characteristics of Subproiects
25.       Of the 76 projects financed from the loan, the amount disbursed for A-
projects amounted to $97.0 million (Annex 3), equivalent to about two-thirds of
the total loan amount reserved for subproject financing after cancellation of the
unutilized amounts. The total cost of the projects financed by the Bank amounted
to Rp 493.4 billion 2/ of which BAPINDO financed Rp 267.4 billion ($204.8
million) or 54.2 percent.   The Bank loan provided Rp 187.4 billion ($143.4
million) or about 70 percent of the BAPINDO financing and about 38 percent of the
total project cost. The remaining Rp 38.5 billion ($29.6 million, or 7.8 percent
of the total) was contributed by project sponsors.
26.       The projects financed from the loan created employment for 10,033
workers at an average total cost of Rp 49.2 million ($37,800) per worker (Annex
4). The appraisal report had estimated that about 18,000 jobs would be created
at an average cost of $46,000. The main reasons for the lower number of jobs
created are that (i) a considerable part of the loan was canceled and (ii) the
actual mobilization rate of other funds (2.6 times the Bank's loan) was smaller
than planned (about 4.0 times). The loan financed a broad spectrum of projects
(see Annexes 5 and 6): industrial projects accounted for about 77 percent of the
loan amount (59 projects), transportation projects for 16 percent (11 projects)
ard hotels and other buildings for 7.5 percent (6 projects).   Ten shipping
projects utilized $29.0 million or 15.2 percent of the disbursed loan amount.
In the industrial sector four sectors dominated: textile and leather (12 projects
and 16.8 percent of the loan amount), chemicals (11 projects and 15.3 percent),
wood and wood products (7 projects and 14.0 percent) and electrical machinery and
appliances (6 projects and 8.0 percent).
27.       With regards to geographical distribution (Annex 5), 56 projects,
requiring 75.5 percent of the total loan amount, were located in Java and Bali,
which follows broadly the same pattern as BAPINDO's overall project financing.
The average size of the projects was about Rp 6.7 billion and the average size
of the loan was about Rp 3.6 billion (at the average exchange of disbursements
equivalent to about $5.1 million and $2.8 million respectively). Total invest-
ments in the largest project amounted to about $18 million (Rp 24 billion).
However, in general the projects financed from the loan were of medium size, with
only 10 projects cooting more than $10 million. The 15 largest projects, costing
more than Rp 10 billion each, received loans totalling Rp 104.6 billion ($80.1
million at the average exchange rate) of which $60.2 million from the Bank loan.
Thus the largest projects, representing about 20 percent of all the projects
financed, received about 40 percent of the loan amount, which is reasonable.
$/ 1f77.8 million at the average exchange rate of Rp 1,306 = $1 during the
disbursement period.



- 10 -
0perational Performance of Subproiects
28.       The operational data in Annexes 7 and 8, show the total project cost
and completion date as well as sales, export, employment and profitability
figures, and financial and economic returns. These data should be considered as
relative rather than absolute indicators of success, because many projects are
already in the fourth or fifth year of operation and therefore data from two or
three years back are not always an indication of the present situation. Gener-
ally, it can be concluded that BAPINDO was usually too optimistic in projecting
the speed of implementation of projects and their volume of sales and rate of
capacity utilization in the first two or three years. These optimistic assump-
tions were generally required in order to achieve the expected financial and
economic returns, which would in turn justify BAPINDO's financial assistance.
Grace periods have therefore generally been too short and debt service payments
too heavy in the early years, sometimes leading to rescheduling and refinancing.
Still, most projects for which data are now available show a satisfactory sales,
profits and export record. Given the increasing deregulation of the economic
environment, financial profitability and economic viability should be positively
correlated. The shipping projects do earn foreign exchange but no records were
available to estimate that. Many projects have in the meantime financed expan-
sions of their operations and employ many more workers than shown in the tables.
29.       As of March 1990, there were eight projects that were being or had been
rehabilitated because of initial implementation or operating difficulties (Annex
9). Three projects still have problems at that date, of which one (a spinning
mill using waste material), which had received a loan of $490,000 was likely to
be liquidated. The other two problem projects (an oil drilling contractor and
a brick factory) with total outstanding amounts of $5.5 million are likely to
recover. The other projects are basically back on schedule, mostly after being
rescheduled and receiving new financing and/or after having been taken over by
other companies.   These projects generally faced market, raw material,  or
technical difficulties. As of March 31, 1990, five projects financed from the
loan were in arrears for more than six months. These five projects, of which the
three mentioned above can be considered serious problem projects, had total
arrears of Rp 10.6 billion (Rp 8.2 in interest and fees and Rp 2.4 billion in
principal). The total principal affected by arrears for these projects amounted
to Rp 25.5 billion.   Thus about 9.5 percent of the principal of the loans
financed by BAPINDO for the Bank projects (Rp 267.4 billion) was affected by
arrears and actual arrears (Rp. 10.8 billion) amounted to 4.0 percent of that
total. These percentages are comparable with BAPINDO's overall portfolio, which
are 10 percent and 2.7 percent respectively.
Technical Assistance and Training
30.       The technical assistance component ($1.84 million, Annex 10) can be
separated in three parts: (i) the implementation of the 1983-85 NAP; (ii) the
program to rehabilitate the portfolio; and (iii) general advisory services.
Implementation of the NAP started as planned in 1983, after a careful selection
of firms. The program was important in amount (almost $700,000) and addressed
five areas of institutional weakness:   (i) project appraisal capacity;  (ii)
supervision skills and procedures; (iii) personnel planning; (iv) reporting
systems; and (v) branch network organization. The design stage of the project,
which included a thorough evaluation of the existing condition, and the develop-
ment stage. which included the detailed formulation of a program, took consider-



- 11 -
able time and resources. In the end, the actual action program was ineffective
because it became a set of text books and manuals with very little in terms of
on the job guidance and learning by doing. The terms of reference, which were
approved by the Bank, focussed insufficiently on this aspect of the technical
assistance.  The portfolio review (costing about $900,000), on the other hand,
was a more practical exercise with consultants accompanying staff members on the
evaluation teams for designing the rehabilitation plans and action programs.
Consultants (some subcontracted to local firms included in the $900,000) were
available to follow-up on the recommended act4ons, and sectoral specialists
transferred technical know-how both to BAPINDO st&Ff as well as to the projects.
The third part of the technical assistance component, consisting of general
advisory services (costing $240,000) was to provide management advice to
BAPINDO's Board of Directors.  This service concerned all aspects of operations,
finance and organization and has, overall, been beneficial to BAPINDO, as judged
by improvements in performance.
31.       The training program ($1.34 million, Annex 10) consisted of two parts:
(i) overseas training ($0.82 million) and (ii) training equipment ($0.51 mil-
lion).  The overseas training program financed tuition fees, transportation and
allowances (subsistence, clothing and other). More than 100 professional staff
have benefitted from the program that included, besides formal training courses,
seminars, conferences, workshops, and meetings.   They covered all types of
disciplines (engineers, bankers, economists and lawyers) and almost all aspects
of development banking and project finance.   The training equipment covered
training material for specific in-house courses, audio and video equipment. The
training program has been effective in the sense that it has contributed to
strengthen staff capability and to better institutional performance.   The
overseas training element not only brought specific know-how but also exposed
staff to different cultures, established valuable professional and personal
relations and helped in developing language skills. Because there was no well-
defined policy on staff assignment after training, the positive transfer of
experience from trainees to other staff did not take place and therefore the
benefits of the training program in the long-term may have been reduced. In
addition, formal and on-the-job training activities could have been combined more
effectively.   Except for some relatively minor cost concerns,  supervision
missions rarely focussed deeply on the training part of the project (see also
para. 61).
BAPINDO's Oieratine and Financial Performance
0Deratins Performance
32.       The last PPAR for Loans 1054, 1437 and 1703-IND (the 2nd-4th BAPINDO
projects) was completed in September 1986, and covered BAPINDO's operating and
financial performance till 1985. This section will cover BAPINDO's performance
since then. BAPINDO's operations comprise, besides term lending to the indus-
trial and maritime sectors, which remains its main business, commercial banking,
equity financing, underwriting, brokerage and syndication activities.
33.       Annexes 11 and 12 give overviews of the industrial and maritime term
lending activities. Term loan commitments for industry fell from an average of
about Rp 200 billion in 1981/1983 to about Rp 166 billion on average in
1984/1987, for the reasons given in paras. 4, 5 and 25. Lending to the maritime
sector fell in the same period from Rp 22 billion on average to Rp 16 billion on



- 12 -
average. In 1988 and 1989, with the economic recovery and following the macro-
economic and financial sector adjustment measures, BAPINDO's lending grew
dramatically with annual commitments of Rp 586 billion and Rp 1,134 billion,
respectively. Lending to the maritime sector increased from one loan in 198, (Rp
5 billion) and 6 loans in 1988 (Rp 10 billion) to 13 loans and Rp 92 billion in
1989.  Overall, the shipping sector has, however, declined in importance in
BAPINDO's operations and represented less than 5 percent of total commitments in
1984-89.
34.       Loan approvals -- which are generally larger than loan commitments
because of the time delay between Board presentation and loan effectiveness and
cancellations after approval -- are shown in both nominal and real 1980 Rupiahs
in Annex 13. Despite the relative stagnation of 1985/6, approvals measured in
constant 1980 prices have increased by an annual compounded rate of almost 45
percent from 1983 to 1989, with most of the growth concentrated in 1988 and 1989.
Disbursements (also measured in constant 1980 prices) decreased from Rp 253.6
billion in 1983 to Rp 168.3 billion in 1986. Since then, they have grown to Rp
582.7 billion in 1988 and Rp 815.8 billion in 1989. These growth numbers reflect
the fast growth of industrial investments in general in the last three years.
35.       BAPINDO's field of operations is the medium-to-large eaterprises. This
is traditionally so, despite many efforts by the Bank to widen its orientation.
The absence of operational and well staffed branches made it difficult for
BAPINDO to finance small enterprises except for those in the vicinity of the Head
Office (West Java). The Bank has, however, never encouraged BAPINDO to strength-
en or expand its branches and, as also noted in the PPAR of 1986, from the outset
in 1970, the Bank actually has discouraged BAPINDO from doing so. The regional
development banks (RDBs) , few of which developed into anything beyond arms of the
local governments for financing their "behest" projects (project financed from
administered funds), could never effectively substitute for BAPINDO branches.
The new banking law is likely to describe more clearly the Government's future
intentions with regard to the RDBs' field and scope of operations and their
funding. Because of these developments, 89.6 percent of the total amount lent
in 1985-90 was for loans over Rp 2 billion (about $1.1 million at today's
exchange rate).   Since January 1990, the importance of SSEs has increased
significantly because the Government has instructed BAPINDO (and all the other
state banks) to reserve 20 percent of their lending for projects with a total
cost under Rp 600 million and total loan amounts under Rp 200 million. BAPINDO's
branches are performing important intermediation functions in achieving the
desired level of lending to SSEs.
36.       By sector of industrial activity,  BAPINDO's operations are very
diversified, with no sector (except miscellaneous industries) taking more than,
on average, 20 percent of commitments in the last five years. Textiles remain
the most important activity with about 16 percent on average of annual commit-
ments, followed by metal works (13 percent), and cement, ceramics and glass (9
percent).   In the miscellaneous industries category (44 percent), the most
important subsectors are wood working (rattan, plywood, saw mills, particle
board), mining and quarrying, and food processing.   Financing of the estate
sector (palm oil, coconut, cacao, coffee), generally in conjunction with trans-
migration settlers, is becoming important.
37.       Java, and more specifically West Java, remains BAPINDO's main geo-
graphical area of interest. More than 50 percent of BAPINDO's commitments in the



- 13 -
last five years went to West Java and fully 72 percent to Java as a whole.
Sumatra (North and South) follows with 12.5 percent and Kalimantan with 11.5
percent. This distribution follows more or less that of economic activity and
of population. It is likely that in the future a larger share of the operations
will go outside Java as and when branches develop their operational capacities
and vi'ith the renewed emphasis on SSEq.
38.       Financing of public sector projects has been less than 4.6 percent
during the last six years.  However. 75 percent of the commitments were made in
1985, when BAPINDO financed the rehabilitation/expansion of eight public sector
projects with Rp 124 billion in loans. These are not so-called "behest" projects
and all of them are on schedule as of December 31, 1989.
39.       During the period 1984-89, business cycle conditions determined the
demand for funds for expansion or for new business, rather than operational
preference for one or the other. In the beginning of the period (1984-86), when
the economy was in a recession, over 80 percent of loan commitments were for
existing enterprises, while in the later part of the period (1988-89), when the
economic conditions improved and prospects for growth were bright, over 70
percent has been for new enterprises.
40.       Equity investments are a small part of BAPINDO's business.  They are
mainly related to restructuring projects that have faced difficulties and needed
fresh injections of equity to absorb additional debt. In the future, with the
growing importance of the stock market and BAPINDO's potential to develop its
brokerage and underwriting activities, it is likely that equity operations will
become more important. The Asian Development Bank has provided funds to BAPINDO
for financing equity operations.
41.       Working capital loans generslly  finance current  assets  (stocks,
inventories, receivables, etc) or replace other debt (when companies have
financial problems). In the past. the latter category of working capital loans
were often required because BAPINDO had either (i) underestimated project cost
and financing plans provided for insufficient working capital; and/or (ii)
overestimated repayment capacities on account of optimistic implementation
schedules, initial production and cash flows.   Sometimes, project sponsors
started expansions of their projects before they had passed the grace period,
using the working capital to finance the expansion. Thus working capital loans
have often been an involuntary business arising from temporary project perfor-
mance problems. More recently, particularly since 1987, working capital loans
have become part of BAPINDO's regular general banking services, because it has
more and more short-term funds (demand and time deposits) that are more appropri-
ately used for short term financing. About 35 percent of total financing in the
last five years has been for working capital and other commercial lending
activities.
Financial Performance
42.       BAPINDO's  financial  performance  closely  follows  its  operational
results. Annexes 14 to 16 show BAPINDO's balance sheets, income statements and
financial indicators and ratios for the period 1984-1989. As has been explained
earlier in the section on the environment, the economy suffered from a succession
of economic adjustments from 1983 to 1986.   The ensuing recession impacted
negatively on BAPINDO's clients and its own balance sheet when, due to growitn



- 14 -
overdues on term loens, short-term assets started to rise without improving the
real liquidity position of the bank; in effect cash balances fell while the term
loan portfolio stagnated. Loans affected by arrears as a percentage of total
loans outstanding increased from an already high 31 percent in 1984 to 55.5
percent in 1985 and the collection rate on loans remained at around a low 50
percent in the period 1984-86 despite large rescheduling (Rp. 33 billion in 1985
and Rp. 73 billion in 1986). Improvements in the portfolio were slow, and over
Rp. 100 billion in loans had to be written off in 1985/86 (Annexes 17 and 18).
43.       While asset values deteriorated, short-term liabilities started to
grow. Part of these were relatively expensive time deposits which led to a sharp
increase in average cost of borrowings from 6.1 percent in 1984 to 9.2 percent
in 1985 and 11.7 percent in 1986. This led in turn to a deterioration of the
income statement. While notional income from the loan portfolio (i.e. including
accruals) still increased in 1985. it fell in 1986 because BAPINDO had to write-
off some of its loans (including accrued income) and put others on non-accrual.
As financial expenses increased faster than income, operating margins decreased
and net profit as a percentage of net worth fell to 0.8 percent in 1985 (as
compared with an already low 4.5 percent in 1984). Equity injections and loan
conversions by the Government, totalling Rp 183 billion in 1985/86, brought a
better balance between debt and equity and reduced the average cost of its total
funds (capital plus borrowings) by the end of 1986.
44.       Since 1987, the financial performance of BAPINDO has dramatically
improved.  The deterioration of the portfolio was stopped thanks to a set of
measures, designed and implemented with the help of consultants, and the general
improvement in the economic environment in which industrial projects operated.
While rescheduling remained relatively high in 1989, at about 8 percent of the
loans in repayment stage, the collection rate has improved to 83.2 percent.
Arrears as a percentage of the portfolio in the repayment stage has dropped to
3.5 percent and write-offs have fallen to below 1 percent. These are indicators
of a generally good portfolio performance.   As a result, net profits as a
percentage of net worth has gone up to 16 percent in 1989 (11 percent in 1988).
However, financial expenses have increased with BI's change in interest rate
policy in October 1988 and the further tightening of liquidity credits in January
1990. The average cost of term debt has increased from 9.5 percent in 1986 to
15.8 percent in 1989, while interest rates on loans have increased slower (Annex
19). Consequently, interest margins on term lending have come down to about 1-2
percent from about 4-5 percent. BAPINDO has, however, been able to maintain and
even improve profitability for three reasons: (i) the better portfolio perfor-
mance has reduced the need for provisioning (on average 3.8 percent of average
assets in 1984-87, against only 1.8 percent in 1988-89); (ii) profitability on
expanding short-term lending is higher than on term-lending because of an
inverted yield curve in the last two years; and (iii) administrative expenses as
a percentage of average assets has remained remarkably stable over the whole
1984-89 period, at around 2 percent, despite the addition of new branches and
other banking services. Developments in these three parameters will have to be
carefully watched and monitored by BAPINDO, because adverse changes can have more
than proportional negative consequences for its financial situation.
45.       An overview of BAPINDO's mobilization of domestic and foreign financial
resources is attached in Annexes 20 and 21. Total domestic resources increased
on average by 28.6 percent per year between 1984 and 1989, however, short-term
domestic resources increased on average by 65 percent per year, while long-term



- 15 -
domestic funds, including BI, increased by only 17.5 percent, reducing their
share in the total from 87.4 percent in 1984 to 55 percent in 1989.  Since 1985,
BAPINDO has rai6ed Rp. 450 billion in bonds (of which Rp 150 billion in 1990),
a development which has long been a Bank objective for diversifying BAPINDO's
funding sources. Bonds and short-term funds are, however, relatively expensive.
The interest rate on the Bonds are between 153/4 percent and 183/4 percent per
annum while rates on time deposits range from 14 percent on one month deposits
to 153/4 percent on two year and over deposits.
46.       Foreign currency borrowing has also been expanded and diversified since
the approval of Loan 2277-IND. Besides Bank Loans 3040 and 3041-IND, in which
BAPINDO participates for about $40 million, two ADB loans ($140 million), two
Exim-bank of Japan loans ($51.7 million) and one Nordic Development Bank loan ($5
million) have been mobilized through so-called "two-step loans", where the
Government is the borrower and BAPINDO the beneficiary. Since February 1989,
BAPINDO has borrowed in total $130 million in Singapore throughi so-called "one-
step loans", i.e. without intermediation of the Government. BAPINDO borrows in
dollars and lends in dollars to its customers, effectively passing on the foreign
exchange risk.   BAPINDO's borrowing rate is generally 7/16th over SIBOR and
BAPINDO's onlending rate is SIBOR plus 2 percent (9 percent in June 1990),
providing BAPINDO about 11/2 percent margin. On these operations, which BAPINDO
reserves for its prime customers, the interest margin essentially represents the
credit rating differential, with BAPINDO carrying the credit risk of its cus-
tomer. Overall outstanding foreign exchange borrowings have grown by an average
compounded rate of 35 percent per annum between 1984 and 1989 and comprised 21
percent of total outstanding long-term borrowing as of December 31, 1989 (11
percent of total, long- plus short-term, borrowing).
47.        Loan 2277-IND has been very advantageous to BAPINDO in that the
Government passed the proceeds of the loan on to BAPINDO at the same rate (with
a ceiling of 11 percent per annum) that it paid the Bank. While it was the
intention that BAPINDO would therefore implicitly carry the risk that interest
rates would increase, in fact BAPINDO has benefitted from the Bank's variable
interest rate because it has fallen ever since 1984.  Thus BAPINDO pays 7.75
percent per annum (effective since January 1, 1990) on the Bank's loan, without
foreign exchange risk.  It has utilized the loan to finance projects at 13.5
percent per annum and therefore realizes a spread of 51/2 percent per annum
against an average spread of 2.5 percent projected by the appraisal report.
Loans 3040 and 3041-IND have a rdaending rate which is based on the average cost
of commercial deposits and therefore do not provide the same margin as Loan 2277-
IND.
48.       One of the institutional objectives of the Bank's operations -- besides
developing sound financial, technical and economic policies, practices and
procedures -- has generally been to act as a catalyst for additional resource
mobilization for the intermediary in question. Up to 1987, BAPINDO's operations
were very limited in this respect, because only one ADB and one Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufban (KfW) loan had been mobilized from abroad and most of the
domestic resources had come from the Government (including BI) and state banks.
The negative implications of the high dependence on Government funds was particu-
larly stressed in the 1986 PPAR on the three previous BAPINDO loans. BAPINDO
should be congratulated for its successes since 1987, as both the Bank loans and
loans from the Government have been reduced significantly in importance (to abcut



- 16 -
65 percent of outstanding term debt and 40 percent of total debt at the end of
1989).
49.       Financial projections attached as Annex 22 are indicative because they
were prepared in early 1990 and have been overtaken by events. Loan approvals
for 1990 will probably be double the amount projected because of two develop-
ments. First, 52 agricultural plantatior loans have been approved amounting to
over Rp 2.5 trillion.  These loans have a significant transmigration (small-
holder) element included, which is politically important. Refinancing of these
loans by BI is also on more advantageous terms than other lo&ai.  There are,
however, considerable risks attached to this type of operation because of the
long gestation period, and the generally high price and production risks associ-
ated with agricultural products.V/  Second, in January 1990, the Governaent
decided that all state banks have to lend 20 percent of their loans to SSEs.
That will considerably strain BAPINDO's appraisal capacity because achieving that
target will mean more than doubling the number of loan approvals.
50.       The projections give, however, a good insight into the direction in
which BAPINDO is likely to move.   Current assets and current liabilities,
associated with short-term commercial banking operations, will grow faster than
long-term operations and borrowings.  Borrowing from BI is forecast to stop
growing altogether, with a significant consequent fall in its share in total
borrowing. No increase in the share capital is foreseen at this time, but this
may have to change if BAPINDO continues to grow as it has so far this year.
Income from fees (underwriting, trust fund custodian, guaranteeing, brokerage,
etc) is likely to grow faster than financial income, although even in 1994 the
share of fee income will likely be less than Rp l50 billion or about 10 percent
of total gross income but about equal to total administrative expenses. Fee
based services should therefore be profitable and BAPINDO should continue to
develop its expertise in specialized investment and banking services.
31.       While the growth assumptions in the projections seem overall too
conservative, the projected improvements in some of the performance indicators
and ratios (particularly those related to administrative expenses, return on
assets and spreads on loans/liabilities) seem too optimistic.   It would be
prudent to investigate as early as possible the scope for increasing the share
capital as it is forecast that, even with the slow growth used in the projec-
tions, the total debt/equity ratio will increase from about lO:l today to about
17MI in 1994 (which would be beyond prudent capital adequacy limits). The long-
term debt/equity ratio would in this scenario increase from about 5:1 today to
about 8:1 in 1994 (assuming the relatively optimistic cost and income assump-
tions).  These estimates do not take into account the Government's decision
(dated January 23, 1990) to consider all two-step loans as subordinate to equity.
With that assumption, the long-term debt/equity ratio would become about 4:1
presently and about 6sl in 1994.
tf Subsequently, Bapindo has reduced the approvals for these loans to Rp 1.9
trillion.



- 17 -
Proiect Sustainabilitv
52.       Project sustainability -- the ability to maintain and expand on the
expected benefits of the project -- has three elements: the final beneficiaries
from industrial credit, BAPINDO's institutional gains from the technical as-
sistance, and the effects of the sectoral and policy studies. From the Bank's
evaluation of the subproject results, it is clear that the expected benefits of
the project, with some minor exceptions, are being sustained. With respect to
BAPINDO, its sustainability as an institution was mainly linked to the Govern-
ment's macro-economic policies and its own managerial abilities, and to a lesser
extent to the success or failure of the technical assistance. In this respect,
it is useful to distinguish between two periods:
(a) Before 1987, BAPINDO had been sustained by relatively low cost loans
from Bank Indonesia (BI) and regular equity injections by the
Government.   In its operations it followed Government policy and
directives. As a fully owned Government bank, it was frequently used
as a tool for implementing industrial policies and objectives. Finan-
cial and managerial autonomy from the Government was therefore no real
alternative for BAPINDO nor the Government itself. The joint respon-
sibility and collective decision making system of the Board, while
reducing individual initiative and accountability, fitted (and still
fits) in the Indonesian culture which emphasizes consensus, team work
and cooperation.
(b)  Since 1987, BAPINDO !as purposefully set out to become more autonomous
from Government funcing and to develop a clientele independent from
the public sector.   The Government, similarly, welcomed BAPINDO's
greater financial autonomy and also exposed it to more market condi-
tions by decreasing .he in:arest margin given on BI funds (formerly 7
percent) and increasing the competition betueen banks. These develop-
ments, while economically and monetarily healthy, have their risks:
the profit margins on BAPINDO's operations are likely to shrink, and
the funding from the ma ket in the form of time and savings deposits
could lead to a mismat_'i of maturities of assets and liabilities.
BAPINDO is aware of these risks and is expanding into such commercial
banking activities as export and working capital financing that match
better the short-term nature of some of its resources, and into new
financial services -- such as underwriting and guaranteeing -- that
require no financial resources. Another risk is excessive growth of
project finance, particularly into new fields (like estate financing)
which could compromise project selection and quality and lead to
higher loan defaults later.
53.       Since  the Government  remains  the only shareholder,  some direct
influence by GOI in BAPINDO's operations will continue for the time being.
However, the new Banking Law submitted to the Parliament is likely to provide for
a more market-oriented financial system. The draft law calls for the transforma-
tion of all state-owned banks into limited liability companies.   Therefore,
efficiency and profitability will be the principles guiding BAPINDO's operations,
which should be sustained without recourse to GOI financing and with selective
external borrowings.



- 18 -
Proiect Implementation by the Government
Studies Financed by the Loan
54.       Loan 2277-TA included an original provision of $5.6 million for
technical assistance to the Gove-nment, covering consulting services to carry out
studies and related training. While this amount was later increased to $11.7
million at the request of the Government, only $6.6 million had been disbursed
at the closing of loan account to finance 17 different studies and related
training.  The thrust of most of the studies, as listed in Annex 23, was to
promote investment in export-oriented industries in line with the Government's
overall macroeconomic policies.   Given the number of studies, a number of
different agencies were involved including the Ministry of Industry, Ministry of
Finance, the Investment Board (BKPM) and the Central Statistics Bureau.  The
sheer number of studies financed precludes individual treatment here. However,
most studies were rated as effective. A study of the textile industry and its
export prospects was very valuable in preparation of the Industrial Restructuring
Project (Loan 3040-IND). Work under the loan on developing a data base on the
flow of funds for the Indonesian economy has also provided critical information
to decision makers in their efforts to guide the economy through a period of
deregulation. Two export promotion studies were considered ineffective.
55.       The lessons and conclusions that may be drawn from the 17 studies
include:
-    More attention should have been paid to the definition of objectives,
scope, and justification of studies. This would have increased the
relevance of the studies, the clients commitment to them, and the
later implementation of the studies' recommendations. Studies tended
to be better supervised and utilized when they were project-related,
i.e., led to specific projects.
-    Suitable GOI counterparts were lacking.  This impaired both the rele-
vance and dissemination of study findings.
-    An agreed mechanism between GOI and the Bank for discussion of draft
or final reports and for follow-up was not as strong as it might have
been.
-    Bank supervision was extremely difficult due to the proliferation of
studies sponsored by an array of agencies.  Turnover of Bank staff
reviewing studies further weakened the supervision effort.   Weak
supervision led to a lack of coherence between related studies.
56.       A study of technical assistance components of Bank-assisted projects
in Indonesia has been carried out recently by the Bank; conclusions of this study
are generally in line with those in para. 55. This study focussed on a sample
of projects covering four broad areas of major Bank lending -- Agriculture,
Infrastructure, Industry and Energy, and Production and Human Resources -- with
a view to enhance the effectiveness of technical aseistance efforts.



-19 -
Project Management and Supervision by the Bank
Prolect Preparation and Formulation
57.       Project  identification  started  in mid-1981.   General Government
approval to proceed with a next credit line to BAPINDO was obtained in December
1981. The loan would be for medium and large scale industry, at interest rates
prevailing at the time (13.5 percent for large scale and 10.5 percent for SSEs).
The main focus was on BAPINDO and the implementation of a General Improvement
Program (GIP) agreed in April 1981. Because the inflation rate at the time was
about 7-8 percent per annum, the interest rate level was not a real issue. It
is noteworthy that between project identification and Loan Committee approval on
February 18, 1983, the initial loan amount of $45 million was increased five
times: (i) to $75 million during pre-appraisal (April 1982); (ii) to $100 million
by the Project Brief, on June 30, 1982 (on the assumption that a programmed Asian
Development Bank (ADB) loan for $30 million would not materialize); (iii) the
Issues Paper of September 15, 1982, proposed an increase to $150 million; (iv)
the Decision Meeting of October 15, 1982, agreed to a further increase to $156
million; and (v) between the Yellow and Green cover drafts of the SAR, the amount
was finalized at $208.9 million. The decision was based on the growing resource
constraints faced by the Government and the small share of the Bank financing in
BAPINDO's projected 1983-85 lending program. The Loan Committee did not discuss
BAPINDO's institutional or financial capacity to implement such a large program.
58.       During the appraisal process, the Issues Paper raised few and mainly
non-controversial issues: (i) the interest rate (essentially agreeing that the
rate of 13.5 percent was adequate); (ii) domestic resource mobilization (a public
bond issue to diversify local resources and to move away from Government funding
was to be confirmed during negotiations); (iii) the debt-equity ratio (recom-
mending an increase from 3:1 to 6:1); (iv) a proposal to treat Government
"behest" projects as "managed" funds; and (v) cofinancing possibilities (no need
was foreseen by the Government). The Decision Meeting agreed with the recom-
mended "parallel track approach" i.e. "that it was not practical to make finan-
cial sector or other policy reforms a condition of the proposed loan". This
decision was challenged by a senior project advisor and some Executive Directors
at the time of Board Presentation.  During the Decision Meeting, Bank staff
expressed a preference for BAPINDO to carry both the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks.  However, by negotiations it had been accepted that the
Government would in principle absorb both risks (including the interest rate
beyond 11 percent because BAPINDO's onlending rate was fixed at 13.5 percent, and
margins should not be reduced further). While the Issues Paper had pointed to
some important institutional constraints for BAPINDO to consolidate rather than
to accelerate growth, the Decision Meeting agreed that with the proposed tech-
nical assistance component the projected level of lending "will be manageable".
The loan was approved on May 10, 1983.
Volume and Effectiveness of SuDervision
59.       The first supervision mission (October 1983) reported general com-
pliance with all loan covenants and satisfactory performance.   However, it
detected some alarming signals of a deteriorating portfolio and reported on the
new macro-economic policies, credit ceilings and interest rate increases. The
second mission (June 1984) still reported satisfactory financial results but
widespread and rapid portfolio deterioration.   The negative effects of the



- 20 -
Government's financial policies on BAPINDO's resource position and shrinking
margins had become clear.   The technical assistance effort was found to be
progressing satisfactorily but the consultants would require six more months to
familiarize themselves.   By the third mission, in April 1985, all parties
(Government, BAPINDO and the mission) had agreed that a number of exogenous
factors impacted very negatively on BAPINDO's affairs. However, a set of actions
to:   (i) improve appraisal and supervision procedures;  (ii) increase loan
collection rates; (iii) review rehabilitation processes; and (iv) strengthen the
internal organization, was discussed and agreed with BAPINDO. The recommended
internal reorganization was based on a study by consultants, financed from the
TA part of the loan, and a set of actions was agreed upon to be monitored during
implementation. The project was subsequently classified as a problem project for
the fall project implementation review.
60.       By the time of the fourth mission, in October 1985, the consultants
responsible for helping BAPINDO with the implementation of the Action Program had
finished their work and the supervision report noted that most actions had not
been implemented. The mission was mostly concerned with the problems of the
portfolio review for which new consultants had been hired on the basis of terms
of reference agreed by the Bank. This review would lead to a more comprehensive
Portfolio Rehabilitation program for which other consultants were hired, with
very satisfactory results.
61.       With regards to training, the October 1985 mission recommended that
BAPINDO submit by early 1986 a comprehensive training plan which would include
a proposal for the use of the training funds in the loan. Another very short
mission visited BAPINDO in January 1986, following up on the capital restruc-
turing of BAPINDO and the portfolio review and project rehabilitation measures.
The mission reiterated again the need for better selection of staff for training.
taking into account institutional needs.   BAPINDO submitted in May 1986 its
training expenditures for 1983-1985 amounting to about $270,000. The Bank
approved the expenditures, but expressed concern only about some of the cost
categories (daily, clothing and other allowances) and not with the training
proposal itself. The only caveat was that in the future, overseas training would
be authorized on an individual case-by-case basis.  The Bank did not follow
through and continued to approve training expenditures and disbursements on the
basis of group training programs (some, like the training related to the port-
folio review, justifiably so). Overall, the supervision of the training program
was not very focussed or consistent, which is probably due to the fact that. at
the time, it was considered a minor issue compared with the severe financial and
portfolio problems.
62.       In January 1986, when BAPINDO was still facing severe financial and
institutional problems, the Bank reported in detail about BAPINDO's finances and
required further actions to secure BAPINDO's financial situation and portfolio
and to improve its internal staffing and efficiency.  In May 1986, a Bank mission
that had discussions on the SEDP and KUPEDES credit programs, also reported on
developments  in BAPINDO in its back-to-office report.   In particular,  it
reviewed: (i) the progress of the organization for a comprehensive Portfolio
Review for which consultants would be hired; and (ii) the actions which the
Government had taken so far.   By November 1987, when the ninth supervision
misGion visited BAPINDO, it observed considerable progress in the quality of the
portfolio, the financial situation, the organizational structure and procedures,
staff recruitment and development, etc. It congratulated the new President of



-21 -
BAPINDO and noted the need for more on-the-job training as was provided by the
portfolio review consultants.  The mission also stated that the loan was in
compliance with all legal covenants. The next supervision mission report, dated
January 1989, concerns a mission made in December 1988. The report stated that
BAPINDO's portfolio performance had significantly improved and that the overall
efficiency of the institution had increased. It also recommended that, given the
financial sector reforms adopted by GOI. BAPINDO proceed to prepare a long-term
development strategy covering its clientele, product-mix and sources of funds.
This strategy was proposed in 1989, with the assistance of a senior advisor.
Supervision diminished in the 1988/89 period due to the preparation of other
projects which concerned BAPINDO. However, the files do indicate that regular
contacts between the Bank and BAPINDO were maintained.
Proiej_ Documentation and Data
63.     During the life of the loan, BAPINDO provided the Bank with comprehensive
quarterly reports; produced on request a large number of documents concerning its
lending programs, status of portfolio, sources and uses of funds, terms and
conditions of domestic and foreign resources and internal procedures and organi-
zation; and supplied Bank missions with all required supplemental information on
BAPINDO itself and on the economic environment in which it operates.  BAPINDO's
financial statements are prepared on the basis of generally accepted accounting
principles and were satisfactory f or detailed financial analysis purposes. Audit
reports, which all gave BAPINDO a clean opinion, are on file. A summary in
English of the 1989 audit, which was available in Bahasa Indonesia, was given to
the PCR mission in the field.



- 22 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW PROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Bank's Performance During the Proiect
64.       Various missions came to BAPINDO during the appraisal and supervisions
of Loan 2277. The issues expressed during their visits were mostly the normal
concerns of a lending institution, such as the macro-policy environment and
BAPINDO's internal capabilities. The macro environment of Indonesia at the time
of Loan 2277 was admittedly burdened by distortions, such as trade and investment
regulations as well as inward-oriented industries.   With hindsight,  it is
reasonable to speculate, as Part I of this PCR does, that the project might have
been more effective if Bank had insisted on macro-economic reforms as a precondi-
tion for Loan 2277. However, it might also have delayed the project, as the
ingredients for a comprehensive policy consensus on trade, industrial, and
investment deregulation were not yet in place at that time. Effective policy
reform in the Indonesian context requires both wisdom and proper timing.
Perhaps, the Bank's appraisal of Loan 2277 and its hesitation to insist on macro-
policy preconditions should be understood in that context. The weaknesses in
BAPINDO's internal capabilities identified during appraisal were not considered
seriour enough to delay project implementation. Besides, a comprehensive Action
Program was designed for implementation during the Loan, in order to strengthen
BAPINDO.
65.       Looking back, the Bank's supervision missions during project imple-
mentation should have been more focused and thorough. There were times when
BAPINDO was just an incidental agenda, to be done only as an addition to their
main mission's objectives while in Jakarta. If the supervision missions were
more focused, such as on the consultants' outputs and performance, BAPINDO could
have been guided and reinforced by the Bank in forcing some consultants to be
more application-oriented.
66.       Part I of this PCR concluded that Loan 2277 had less success in its
technical assistance than in the project financing component. It mentioned, for
example, that the Cegir consultants from Canada produced manuals that were not
practical or applicable. In fairness to the Cegir consultants, BAPINDO actually
implemented and continues to fine-tune some of their recommendations, such as the
computerized project appraisal and review system (CPAS), and the open personnel
performance appraisal and review system (PARS). Of course, other recommendations
could not be implemented for various reasons, but this is not unusual in tech-
nical assistance, particularly in the area of management. Actually, BAPINDO
hired several consulting companies and individual advisers under Loan 2277. All
were hired with the concurrence of the Bank, especially with regard to their
selection and terms of reference (TOR). They were: (a) Cegir consultants of
Canada for the Action Program; (b) First Washington Associates of the USA for the
Portfolio Review; (c) Management Analysis Center of Hong Kong; five (5)
Indonesian consulting companies for the rehabilitation of some specific projects
and sectors; and (d) some individually-hired advisors.
67.       Technical assistance, training, and institution-building sometimes take
time before their impact may be noticeable or measurable. Nevertheless, BAPINDO
agrees with the PCR that Loan 2277 has some good lessons for both Bank and
BAPINDO in terms of optimizing technical assistance. One is that TORe should be
clear and application-oriented.   Another lesson is that long-term resident



-23 -
consultants should at least understand and preferably speak the Indonesian
language. On-the-job coaching and daily interaction is the most effective way
to transfer expertise and advice, not through thick, written manuals. If long-
term consultants lack local language proficiency, they would not be able to read
internal reports, process the inputs from their counterparts, react during
internal staff meetings, and coach the local staff on how to use and apply their
recommendations.
68.       It should be mentioned that the IBRD's history of financial and
technical assistance to BAPINDO since 1972 has generally been to encourage and
support the continued positioning of BAPINDO as a "pure" development bank, more
or less.   Thus, the emphasis of its assistance has been to strengthen the
investment appraisal and supervision capabilities of BAPINDO in order to make it
a stronger development finance institution.   No TA component has ever been
specifically earmarked to strengthen BAPINDO's commercial banking and merchant
banking operations. In fact, even this PCR, in Pa-t I, considers only the credit
department staff as "professional"; while the general banking and supporting
departments' staff are considered "non-professional" and "routine". This is not
really a criticism of Bank's wishes for BAPINDO's institutional character. It
is just another proof that the effectiveness of TA programs is a function of the
times, the bigger policy environment, and the prevailing corporate or institu-
tional philosophies in the Bank itself and in the assisted institutions.
Borrower's Performance During the Proiect
A. BAPINDO
69.       The fast growth in loan approvals, admittedly higher than budgeted
durinrg the last 2-3 years, has been brought about by the rapidly growing needs
and demands of Indonesia's economic development. Most of the export-led and
private sector-based growth of recent years have been planned and anticipated.
However, it is difficult to anticipate and program everything when the energy and
creativity of the private sector are unleashed and encouraged.  Such is the
strength of free enterprise and deregulation, after all. That is why BAPINDO has
been revising upward its own portfolio growth projections. In addition, the
dynamic economic environment encouraged the existing and potential clients of
BAPINDO to demand more and varied financial services. So, BAPINDO has had to
respond in both magnitude and mix of products and services. The point here is
that if BAPINDO did not respond promptly and adequately to their demands, by
being passive and sticking to its o-iginal conservative projections, the
financing gap would have been filled by other banks' domestic and foreign, state-
owned and private. If that happened, BAPINDO would have been severely criticized
by the Bank, among others, for being too unresponsive, conservative, and poten-
tially irrelevant to a deregulated financial system.
70.       Nevertheless, BAPINDO recognizes the strains and the risks involved in
its institutional diversification, which falls into two basic categories, namely:
(a) portfolio diversification into plantations or industrial crops (large and
small scale); and (b) operational diversification into commercial banking and
capital market services. Those strategic moves have been deliberate corporate
decisions, based on BAPINDO's desire to continue serving the needs of the
industrial and agroindustrial sectors of Indonesia. In these modern times, to
remain a pure development bank serving just the industrial sector would mean
institutional obsolescence for BAPINDO.



- 24 -
71.       However, being cognizant of the risks, BAPINDO is taking steps to
minimize the problems concomitant to such diversification, such as the following
measures:
(a) On the nlantation diversification:
technlcal cooperation with the Directorate General of Estates,
the Dinas Perkebunan (extension service). private agro-processing
companies, and agribusiness consulting organizations, in order to
assist us in the technical agronomic aspects of appraisal and
supervision; and
*   recruitment of agricultural and agribusiness specialists;
(b)  On the commercial banking and caRital market diversification:
*   the Department of Treasury and Banking Services (UKJ) is being
reorganized in order to expand its capacity;
*   the UKJ's staff are being trained locally and abroad;
mid-level staff with commercial and merchant banking experiences
are being recruited; and
procedures and controls in foreign exchange dealing, money mar-
ket, and capital market activities, are being streamlined, among
others.
72.       Loan 2277 coincided with one of the most difficult periods in the
institutional life of BAPINDO. As mentioned in Part I of this PCR, the reces-
eionary conditions in Indonesia in 1984-86. which were partly due to the fall in
the price of oil, adversely affected the business volume and repaying capacity
of many BAPINDO borrowers. The extra handling and attention required by the
clients with arrearages hindered the effectiveness of the Action Program of
BAPINDO.
73.       From BAPINDO's viewpoint, its performance in the project should be
viewed from two angless   as an on-lending bank, and as a recipient of the
technical assistance (TA) component of the loan.   As an on-lending bank,
BAPINDO's performance can be perceived from the economic impact and repayment
status of the 76 subprojects under the Loan 2277. As Parts I and III of this PCR
show, BAPINDO's performance on both criteria has been satisfactory, despite the
difficulties in the mid-1980s.   In terms of its institutional capabilities.
BAPINDO's performance can be measured by its capacity to compete in a deregulated
financial system. Rather than boast on this, BAPINDO directs the reader to the
qualitative judgment of Part I and the statistical information of Part III. The
relevant indicators of organizational capacity include its functional organiza-
tion, stable general and administrative costs despite rapid operational growth,
and the profitability figures, among others.
74.       At any rate, BAPINDO today is quite different from the BAPINDO at the
beginning of Loan 2277. BAPINDO today is a more diversified, balanced, flexible
and self-confident bank. In the final analysis, Loan 2277 has benefitted BAPINDO
in two wayst (a) it augmented BAPINDO's foreign exchange resources, and (b) it



-25 -
strengthened BAPINDO through the technical assistance component.  It enabled
BAPINDO to finance 76 subprojects that have proven to be generally profitable and
sustainable, judging from their sales, exports, employment generation, and profit
performances, as shown in parts I and III of this PCR. On the other hand, the
TA component was beneficial in terms of planing the seeds of change and reorien-
tation towards efficiency and self-sufficiency, in anticipation of the increasing
deregulation and competition in the Indonesian financial system.   The major
strategic initiatives implemented during the Loan 2277 included the (a) reorgani-
zation (departments were reduced from 21 to 14); (b) strategic planning (the
first written Corporate Plan was completed and ratified by the Board); and
(c) the portfolio review and subsequent rehabilitation. Those initiatives were
designed and implemented with the sustained assistance of the general advisory
services which formed the third technical assistance part under Loan 2277.
B. Government Ministries
75.       BAPINDO has been advised that the point of view of the Government for
this PCR will be communicated later by the Ministry of Finance, who coordinated
the utilization of the $6.6 million fund for sectoral and policy studies.
Relationship between BAPINDO and the Bank during the Proiect
76.       Generally, the relationship between BAPINDO and the Bank during the
Loan 2277 was good and constructive. BAPINDO has always been transparent and
honest in dealing with Bank missions even during the difficult years of portfolio
deterioration and rehabilitation. For its part, the Bank was also generally
helpful and understanding, despite some occasional differences of opinion and
judgment between BAPINDO and some Bank staff. Fortunately, such differences did
not weaken the institutional relationship between Bank and BAPINDO, which remains
strong. In fact, BAPINDO has been the strongest supporter and fastest on-lender
of the ongoing Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND) and Small and
Medium Industrial Enterprises Project (Loan 3041-IND) of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit No.                                        approval/
and Title                  Purpose                     amount         Status         Comnents
Cr.    310-IND   Help BAPINDO to finance indus-   1972;               Completed             --
B A P I N D 0   trial subprojects and provision   $10.0 million
Project           of  technical  assistance  to
strengthen the institution
Cr.    318-IND   Help BAPINDO to finance fleet   1972;               Completed              --
Inter-Island   rehabilitation subprojects            $7.0 million
Fleet Rehabi-
1 i tat ion
Project
Ln.   1054-IND   Help BAPINDO to finance indus-   1972;              Completed              --
BAPINDO    II   trial subprojects and provision   $50.0 million
Project           of  technical  assistance  to
strengthen the institution
Cr.   1467-IND   Help BAPINDO to finance indus-   1977;              Completed              --
BAPINDO    III   trial subprojects and provision   $40.0 million
Project           of  technical  assistance  to
strengthen the institution
Ln.   1703-IND   Help BAPINDO to finance indus-   1979;              Completed
BAPINDO    IV   trial subprojects and provision   $50.0 million
Project           of  technical  assistance  to
strengthen the institution
Ln.   3040-IND   Help finance institutional re-   1984;              Ongoing      $29.5 million onlent
Industrial   structuring at enterprise level   $284.0   mil-                      to    BAPINDO    for
Restructuring   through 12 participating banks;   lion                            financing industrial
Project           provision of technical assis-                                   restr. subprojects
tance to enterprises and GOI's
R&D institutions; and funding
industrial subsector studies
Ln. 3041-IND      Help  finance  investments  by   1989;             Ongoing      $10.0 million onlent
Small    and   small  and  medium  industrial   $100.0   mil-                     to    BAPINDO    for
M e d i u m   enterprises through 13 parti-   lion                                financing small and
Industrial   cipating banks; provision of                                         medium    industrial
Enterprises   technical assistance for pre-                                       subprojects
Project           paration  of  industrial  sub-
projects



- 27 -
2.   Proiect Timetsble
Date
Item                   Planned            Revised                 Actual
- Identification          --                   --                November 1981
- Preparation             --                   --                March 1982
- Appraisal             July 1982              --                July/August 1982
- Loan Negotiations    February 1983        March 1983           March 16-21, 1983
- Board Approval        April 1983          May 1983             May 10, 1983
- Loan Signature        May 1983               -                 May 31, 1983
- Loan Effectiveness   August 1983          October 1983         October 19, 1983
- Loan Closing          June 30, 1988       June 30, 1989        June 30, 1989
- Loan Completion       December 31, 1987  December 31, 1988  December 31, 1988
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
($ million)
FY                    84      85       86      87       88       89      90
Appraisal eatimate        33.5    84.8   128.8   167.6   208.3       -        -
Actual                    13.85   55.39   83.65   108.56   141.32   149.56   153.74
Actual a8 2 of est.       41      65      65       65       68       -        -
Date of Final Disbursement: January 9, 1990.



- 28 -
4. Proiect Results
A.         Direct Benefits
Estimates
Indicators              At Appraisal   At Closing Date   At Full Development
No. of subprojects           65-75               76                  76
No. of jobs created         18,000           10,033              10,033
Cost per job created
($)                      46,000            37,800                n.a.
Average subloan size
($M)                        1.6               1.9                n.a.
B. Economic Impact
Economic                                      Estimates
Rate of Return          At Appraisal   At Closing Date   At Full Development
Range (Z)                     n.a.        11.9-51.0
Unweighted average (Z)        n.a.             27.8
C.  Financial Impact
Financial                                     Estimates
Rate of Return          At Appraisal   At Closing Date   At Full Development
Range (S)                     n.a.        16.3-29.2                  --
Unweighted average (Z)        n.a.             21.0                  --
D. Training
Estimates
Indicator                              At appraisal              Actual
No. of BAPINDO staff trained                 100                    110
Cost per trainee ($)                      10,000                  7,000
Purchase of Training Equipment           300,000                392,500



29 -
E. Studies
About $5.6 million equivalent were estbmated at appraisal to cover the
costs of detailed engineering for export zones and estates, and of several policy
and subsector studies, not yet fully identified at that time.  In total 17
studies were completed at a cost of $6.6 million. Overall, the final outcome was
satisfactory despite sporadic supervision efforts.
5. Status of Covenants
Type of                      Brief description of
Agreement/Section                 Covenant                       Status
Loan Agreement
2.02(b);          Conditions   of   eligibility   for           Complied
2.02(c); and      subloans; free limits
2.02(d)
2.01(a)           Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement          Complied
between Borrower and BAPINDO
3.01(b)           Ministry of Finance to implement Part         Complied
B of the project
4.03              Borrower shall ensure positions of            Complied
BAPKNDO's President and Managing
Directors filled at all times with
qualified and experienced persons
4.04(a)           Each  FY  of  BAPINDO,  Borrower  to          Complied
discuss with the Bank timing and
manner of financial support to be
provided by Borrower, BI and other
sources to BAPINDO for following FY
4.04(b)           Borrower to provide additional equity         Complied
funds to comply with Section 4.07 of
PA, and with funds to support
BAPINDO's operations until December
1985
4.05(a)           Separate records and accounts to be  GOI implemented Part
maintained for implementing agencies  B and complied with
responsible for Part B (Studies and  this covenant.
Training) of the Project
4.05(b)           To   submit   audited  accounts   of  GOt implemented Part
implementing agencies under Part B of  B and complied with
the Project within six months of the  this covenant
end of each year



- 30 -
Type of                      Brief description of
Agreement/Section                 Covenant                       Status
6.01(a)           Budget   agreement   authorized   or          Complied
ratified    by    all    necessary
governmental and corporate action
Prolect Agreement
2.02;             BAPINDO to comply with Conditions of          Complied
2.03; and         eligibility for subloans
2.04
2.05              BAPINDO  shall  employ  development           Complied
banking   advisor   and   management
consulting firm by September 30, 1983
3.06              BAPINDO shall not amend its Policy            Complied
Statement or its Development Strategy
Statement ('or the period 1983-85)
except in agreement with the Bank
4.02(a)           BAPINDO to have its accounts for each         Complied
fiscal year audited by independent
auditors and in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
4.02(b)           BAPINDO  to  submit   its  audited            Complied
accounts with auditor's certificate
to the Bank, within four ;months of
the end of each fiscal year
4.03              BAPINDO shall not make payments in            Complied
advance   of   maturity   of   any
outstanding debt that would affect
BAPINDO's   ability  to  meet   its
financial obligations
4.04              BAPINDO shall protect itself against          Complied
foreign exchange loss
4.07              BAPINDO  shall not  incur debt  if,           Complied
after    increasing    such    debt,
consolidated debt would be greater
than six times consolidated capital
and surplus



- 31 -
6.  Da of          Renkhacrces
A. taff In;aut
Stage of Projet Cycle          Planned         Revised         Final        Coamnts
Through Appraisal                                                71.2
Appraisal through Board Approvcl                                 11.8
Board Approval through Effectiveness                             11.4
Supervision                                                     127.2
Totsl                                       ~~~~~~~~~~221.6
Pertotmance
Stag  of               monath/ no. of  Days In  Speciliztion       atin     TypeS of
Project Cye1            year  Persons   fl.d    Repr8teated       status   problem
Through Apprdlal       04/82       1       10    Tin. Analyt        -       -
Appraisal throuh
Board Approval        08/82       6       24   DOfel. BankU        -       -
Fla. AnalystsI
Economiate
Board Appzwl
though Iffctr l   a"   -         -        -     -                  -       -
suprvisiou             10/83       1        6    D1ol. Bankin        2      Proj.   Financo;   Kanag.
Perfom.
06/84      4       21    Fla. Analysts;      2      Covenants; Projet Finances
De". Bank;                 mang. Per .
'                           _~~~~~~Zomts
04/85      3       27    Fin. Anaysts        2      Project winance   Portfolio
and Manag. Perf.
10/85      1       11    Win. Analysts       2      Project  inance;  Portfolio
an Mansa. Part.
01/86      2        8    Fla. Analysts       3      Project  inanceg  Portfolio
and Maag. Perf.
05/86      2       10    Fin. nalysts        2      Portfolio R"3ei
01/87      1       10   St. Ug.              2      Portfolio Perfom.
04/87      1       10    Win. Analyst         2     Studies
11/87      1       10   DOv. Dank            3      Portfolio and Mang. Phrf.
12/88      2       12   Day. Bank;           2      Portfollo and MAtg. Parf.
Win. Analyst



- 33 -
MI= PUmIMNM V1=11tA
UMUUl SM                 n          ,t A
law. _.,.
imme d la          I
. t. Ium on
lr,iwt own  Wu.     P ZJst 111111=  KFTull4 OAid Kola    noEU             11 18  Wtl   ImKt iu rI         WI.T.
1f:!H          0:1:      is:l                               0         is: U:6     :43  .:11   @:1  !:t    m:51
:Il  iiLU  U:    f. |'UKt 11lt11I4I1 1tit 3M1U51131135t  1,                                          A I:M O  .
::XE~~~~~~~~~~~~WI WAt: On.2                                                      wm:s   St1 am an."s:2   w
3:11  @3:11:
.1:      -I".U
113181:
JIUSII   UfU3  Wl. 1                          11031                  31 mm   14
is4eaiastim T; 111 Xii  tam narujb m
J*AYA SFA31            3130 IOIAUIIA iL 6tA1
1"Inun                 lies FirNS             Ii1o5iS              H 15115
r31  u:l               3:11 63:6r1            1:1   63:32          3     1155 H
I        '311 "       13m '.          1       11111111             1lls ag      '
ha11 Jl. 811m           I"   t |       I       IN        lo w  a        u L  11 I
1. lull how  AIqu uauH Ssesmn
2             11|:|  "~~~~:24l       01:61   &Wde             :11          01:l61 ":Ni1'"   
J.     sAl                                  ,   l |                  C. gum
13:1   @3:34          111:   :Il               I|S n:ttS 11 @:                3 n:I2I
F   i*ells    I    111i 13m  ls14                 'PINt 1
;,SH ~ ~ iui S uuaid  I                                        hua    l uts Iu
3:6 .3:31                        ::4   *:U 4
I6315* 114313.         .        . I   u_
4111631~ll * . .             11           *           11
Sztasi iia   ..m .i.............     I                        I
feta    mmfls W ft ...........      Il -        21           5
vn" luw    * 11"    .......                      if
fetal m  Uvaiusussl Rl              315         HI          311 -
i 01n   A ,.4? 62 UT   o41
I@U 1          A cw L. ............. ,1  " I



- 34 _                                            Att-chment to
Chart A
INDONI
BANKPEMBANOUNAN DINES1A(LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJBCT COQMLETION REPORT
Bqind StaffThover
A d 1987. My 31, 1990
Todi Stff suen  at do bgnd  of do                         1,146 1y206          1.162      1,354
a. Rwuimrent
- Omdmss                                                  27         37        39         28
- Undergdruas                                             43         56        82         39
- RighScb                                                  1         U         3          31
TCOTAL                                                 101       145       2d5         98
b. Temiination
* EAdy rsd.mmt                                                      167
- Psasdaway                                                3          3         1          2
,     _RedmM                                               4          3         9          4
. Dn tmn                                                   1          -         -          -
Pmions                                                  X1         11         a 
TOTAL                                                  39        191         13         9
Tol  staffngda at th end of the yea                       1.208     1,162      1354       1,443



-35 -
Amnex I
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 227741ND)
PROJECT COMPLETION,REPORT
Acmd and Prceotd Dlibiwmnt Schedule
ORIGINAL
ACTUAL                                     PROJECTIONS
DISBURSEMENTS                PERCENT            DISBURSEMENT    PE}RCENT
QUARTIBRLY       CUMULATIVE             OF            CUMULATIVE               Op
OUAKIZR         z       (SMILON)                   T    LMLLINH&                          3ThL
2nd FY84             0.63               0.63          0.30               1a1                 4.85
3rd                 12.49              13.12          6.28              21.3                10.23
4th                                    13.85          6.63              33.5                16.08
Totl FY84           13.85
lstPY85             15.56              29.41         14.08              46.0                22.08
2nd                  8.62              38.03         18.20              58.3                27.99
3rd                 12.16              50.19         24.03              71.7                34.42
1  4t                52Q               S5.39         26 S2              84.8                40.71
[    ~~~~~~Tt.t FY8S                 41.54
laFY86               6.26              61.65         29.51              9S.8                45.99
2nd                  7.37              69.02         33.04              106.8               S1.27
3rd                  B.64              77.66         37.18              117.8               56S5
4t2       2                            83.65         40.04              128.8               61.83
TotaldFY86          2826
lstPY87              7.84              91.49         43.80             138.8                66.63
2nd                  9.19             100.68         482                148.8               71.
3rd                  2.38             103.06         49.33              1S7.7               75.71
4th                                   108.56         51.97              167.6               80.46
Toel FY87           24.91
l1tFY88              1.97             110.53         52.91              177.5               8S.21
2nd                 l101              120.63         S7.75              187.5               90.01
3rd                 10.89             131.52         62.96              197.4               94.77
4th                  2f               141.32         67.65             2083                100.00
Total FY88          32.76
IaFY89               4.31             145.63         69.71
2nd                  2.34             147.97         70.83
3rd                  0.88             148.85         71.25
4th                                   149.56         71.59
ToalFY89             824
lIPFY90              2.19             151.75         72.64
2nd                  0.86             152.61         73.05
3rd                  1.13             153.74         73.60
4th                                   153.74         73.60
Total FY90           4.18
Tol PY83-90                           153.74         73.60
ComneDod                               55.16         26.40
Total Lan Amnat                       208.90        100.00
, _,-



- 36 -
R4DONESA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECr COMDPLLTON REPORT
Disbursements by Category
Cate-siory                                            Dishoosm (US DoUa!
(1)    Equipment and materfals
Par A.2                                                          512,572.97
(2)    Consultants' services
(a) Par A.2                                                    1,863,592.39
(b) Par B                                                      6,486,080.67
(3)    Overseas traing
(a) Part A.2                                                     826,688.05
(b) Part B                                                        98,154.20
(4)    Front End Fee                                                    520,948.00
(5)    Sub-loans. Pan A.1                                           143A33.C80.77
Total disbursed                                              153,741,716.05
Cancelled, June 30,1988                                       31X000,000.00
Undisbursed balance t be cancelled                            24.158.283.95
TOTAL                                                 208,900,000.00



- 37 -
INDONIa                                            ANNEX 3
BANK PIMDANOUNAN IN         L(DONIA (LOAN 2277NDID)                 Page 1
PROJETB COMPLETION REPORT
(As ofDocn* 31. 1969)
1 A01      COudhia Mauh n         3,743.656.86      3.743,656.86
2 A-02     A1sUma                  4,792,1S1.93     4,792,181.93
3 A.03     ?ump Days Wood          5.789,058.32     5,789,058.32
4 A-04     Dhrm Puadwi N.          5,155,26.41      5,155206.4A
5 A.05     LA*n Sad BEDbdo         5.163352.35      5,163352.35
6 A-06     Gnat Gou Pasppia    7,829.268.30         7361.963.42
7 407    MblbMbor lodAW&           4,105,063.89     4,105,Q63.89
8 A06      Aws Ga.loudo            2.210,000.00     1,740,413.68
9 A409     Mak   Pel. t            2.067*895.78     2,087.895.76
10 A-10      bdiOs la MaMa         4.542364.70       4.542364.70
11 A-11     Rodoco Pasoll U_m    5.932,350.67        5.932,350.67
12 A-12    bInWIMAP                4,575,000.00      2.264382.61
13 A-13     Dwi TuagPl Mamr        2.284.600.0D      1,939,S83.84
14 A-16     Ponmo Caemod           3,070,463.48      3,070,463.48
15 A-1     Iudo                   3,382,000.00      2,748.753.65
16 A-19     Alan=                  4.111,317.98      4.111,317.98
17 A-20     DBom                   4.900,000.00      3.451.264.21
18 A-21      113hPEkaPaay          4.131,800.00      2,776,438.11
19 A-22     AsftClpmSusa           2.804,425.00      1,93257.06
20 A-23     Ramsm                   6,000,000.00     5.830,473.95
21 A-24     PaMli Jys              2,689,697.00     2,702,786.65
22 A-25     Mpul Makaw              3.273,556.00     1,880.480.27
23 A-26     PAP OGua   Putl         3,536585.00      3,425,50330
24 A-27     Wi    Sa_   Jays        2.090,000.00     2,095,224.94
25 A-28     PuwmMaawr Swans         4.291,000.C0     4.213,776.27
26 A-30    Jemn Pany                5.Q46.00Q00      4,19952.83
26  (A)     Sub-to                107,536,843.67    97,045,882.14



- 38 -
INDONEI                                                 ANNEX 3
DAN  PE ANGUNAN    ONESIA(OAN 27.IND)
PROJBCTCOMPLTIONRWPORT                                            Page 2
(A of Dosmbw 31, t199)
(1)              (5)
1 8-01      dIChi 0.. Coavua       1.974L9.0         1,833,466.01
2 302      Padjao & Ss             1.483,013.52      1.483,013.
3 B03      SibmU                   1.305.269.80      1.059.60
4 304      Maiold                  1,404,903.00      1.122,88.41
5 B5       Hill Top Hol            1.648,762.59      1.442386.50
6 306      Mdl Pwda                2,000,O00K        1.440,145.29
7 8301      Now be x               1.783.967.00      1.659.811.71
8 3.0      PdadoPan                1.108.150.00      1.106,150.00
9 319       AnrdA Brd Paid           991,00105        991.006M
10 3-tO     Dam KocanaSm             705,760.00        611,4.79
11 B-15     lndoboa                 1,436,94.78       1.436.934.78
12 B-16     lngnym                  1,544,517.10      1J44.517.10
13 B-17     Sri Ian   plas           656,66.00         588,515.18
14 B-18     Pum  mmw  Sm            1.920,000.Q0      1,610.873.73
15 B-19     Nuo  dndra 80r          1,604,03a3s       1.602,596.39
16 B-20      O     Ias eliw          668218.00         576,877.55
17 B-22     Kaon  Doltwn Uai         831,967.80        783,491.66
18 B-23     Sumber Hog lndammis   1,772.726.45        1,772.726.45
19 B-24     Baag Pmm                 625200            625282.00
20 B-26     AquaI Shipping            232,695.34       232.69534
21 B-27     TelukNaul                366,113.00        337,350.94
22 B-29      KrMba Pdn Tap           975fOO000         654,399.95
23 8-30      Mul  uBagon Mak           7200.00         511.856.62
24 8-31      Suor TanMuM            1.409,260.00      1.267601.35
25 B-32    RPdsIm AbedI             1,080.151.00      1,023.174.74
26 3-33      Sumuo Don              1,192,000.00       461,87.72
27 B-34      Swnbe Sawin Malmur       398,720.33       398,720.33
28 B-35     CV  SiJUUR BDr s        1.162,219.33      1,162,219.33
29 B-36     CV Ti HNrd                100.360.99       100360.39
30 3-37      Days Sakd Unul           986,235.41       986,235.41
31 B-39     Rw4unan Monical Inda      172,225.00       111.415.66
32 B-40     Pansus                    426.100.00       432,137.01
33 B-41     Tlrus Ria               1,533,45328       1,535.453.28
34 342       MegahbDe               1.140.900.00      1,064,327.59
35 B-43    lInd*  vzor                818,887.00       614,981.55
36 B-45      Dowala Sojahua           799,289.50       740348.60
37 3-46     Ind Guna Sanjay          933,000.00        587,653.53
38 3-48      Ilogad                 1,403,843.00      1.403,843.00
39 3-49     SumbesHmadindo          2.000.000.00      1.137,089.91
40 B-50      Puln bltRn Sad           730,141.79       730,141.79
41 B-51     Pan                       563,716.81       389.25687
42 8-52      SinaAmwil              1.617,900.00      1,093,137.98
43 B-53      Yuyu lays Txnwo          127,737.23        73,591.23
44 3-54      Bengswmnzox              499,115.00       346,172.77
45 B-56     CV Ssnang                 342,709.03       342709.03
46 B-57      BhedmlLijuTenker       1,951,122.85      1,951,122.85
47 B-58      Sin Tangermag          1,472,393.00       402.901.29
48 B-59      Bandung Mamer            541,363.00       536,062.40
49 B-60      blhauxdl lnau Mm         437.000.00       433,446.50
50 B-Di     Paneses iaLkmur         1,42Y5 E00.0      13ID97,619
so  (B)      Sub-totd              53,165.156.33     45,984.700.53
76 (A) + (3)   Totd               160.702.000.00    143.030.582.67 4
/A Total amount disbursed does not agree wLth that in Annex 2(5) due to subsequent
changes in disbursements.



- 39 -
Annex 4
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN: 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summarized Data on Subprojects
Loan  2277-IND
Est.'                  Actual
Total number of subprojects                           65-75                       76
of which:
A.  subprojects (above free limit)                 25-30                       26
B.   subprojects (below free limit)                40-45                       50
Average subloan size (Rp billion)                    1.9-2.1                     2.5
Total project cost (Rp million)                   458,049.3                493,429.3
Total BAPINDO financing (Rp million)              267,500.8                 267,434.8
% financed by BAPINDO out of local
currency resources                                  48.0                     31.0
% financed by BAPINDO out of Bank loan                 52.0                     69.0
BAPINDO financing as a % of total cost                 58.4                     54.2
Total incremental employment                       18,000.0                  10,033.0
Investment cost per job (Rp million)2                  32.2                     49.2
Total sales (Rp million)                          382,602.4     .           303,823.9
1.  At time of appraisl at exchange rate at the tine.
2.  546.OOD (est) md S37.750 (Actal).



-40-                             ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN: 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sectoral Distribution of Subprojects
% of      Amount
Number of       Total     Committed    % of Total
Sectoral Distribution             Subprojects    Number      (US$ mil)  Commitments
Industry
Food and beverages                      3          5           11.71           6.1
Textile and leather                    12         21           32.03          16.8
Wood and wood products                  9         12          26.58           14.0
Paper and paper products,
printing and publishing               1          2           1.93           1.0
Chemicals and chemicals prducts        11         19          29.11           15.3
Rubber products                         2          3            1.31           0.7
Plastic products                        1          2           0.65            0.3
Nonmetallic mineral products            2          4           6.52            3.4
Metal products                          2          4           7.37            3.9
Electical machinery and
appliances                           6          11          15.28           8.0
Transport equipment                     -           -             -              -
Otier industries                       10         17           13.77           7.2
Subtotal                            59         100         146.26          76.7
Transportation
Land transportation                     1          9            1.30           0.7
Maritime                               10         91          28.97           15.2
Subtotal                            11         100          30.27          15.9
Construction                               0          0           0.00
Hotels                                     3         50           4.83           2.5
Others                                     3         50           9.27           4.9
Subtotal                             6         100           14.1           7.4
TOTAL                               76         100         190.63         100.0



ANNEX 5
- 41-                             Page 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN: 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Geographical Distribution of Subprojects
% of      Amount
Number of       Total     Committed    % of Total
Sectoral Distribution              Subprojects    Number      (US$ mil)  Commitments
Loan: 2277-IND
Java and Bali                           57          75         139.71          73.3
Sumatera                                 9          12          18A2            9.6
Kalimantan                               7          9           28.66          15.1
Sulawesi and Maluku                      3          4            3.84           2.0
TOTAL                                76         100         190.63          100.0



NDONA
BANK PMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
IROJBCTCOMLBIT    REPORT
Charaueristcs of Subprject Fincaed Unde Low 2277-IND
(Rp mi)
BAPNO          B Facing
PtojgCoampeoa Da
Project Cost                                         Disbumed
Pwiec                               Naturn of                                        Own                    up to                       Vaiatio
1             &m                 Subm    Eand   Acd                     MBRD   Regumn    L1    De.'89e Ene Ad   innr
A-01    Gauda Maha             Vesscl              5,865.0     5,386.0    3,812.0          -     3,812.0    3,812.0  Oct'85    May'84         7
A.02    Alenaex                Textlc              7,686.0     7,800.0    4,800.0          -     4,800.0     4,800.0  Nov'83    Aug'83        3
A-03    Maraga Dayn            Plywood bMi        13,182.4    13,182.4    5,832.0          -     5,832.0     5,832.0  Dec'84    Dec'84
A.04    Deta Perfiwi N         Glue               24,864.0    24,864.0    5,715.0     9,822.0    15,537.0    5,715.0  Dec'84    Jul'85       18
A-OS    Logam San Beamindo     Bexing             11,63C0.    16,2;5.8    5,700.0     1,800.0    7r500.0     5,700.0  Mar'85    Sep'85        6
A.06    Grat GiaPineapplc      Pineapple Plant    14,744.6    14,744.6    9,000.0          -     9.000.0     9,00D.0  Jun'84    Jun'84         -
AO07    Maflhbboar Wndoni      Drilling           10,699.0    11,052.0    4,337.0      518.0     4,855.0     4,337.0  Aug'84    Nov'84        3
A-OS    Aunekabas ndusti       Oxyge               3,800.0     3,800.0    2,232.1      782.9     3,015.0    2,232.1  ApF'85    A4xd8S          -
A-09    Pdayaran Pulau LAnt    Shipping            3,398.0    3,568.0     2,232.7        2.7     2,235.4     2,2327  Scp'89    Nov'89         3 .
A-10    Breton lino Marbel     Mawer              1,982.3    13,58.6    5,000.0            -     5,000.0    5,000.0       -    Aug'85         -             >
A-11    Redeco Petroin U a     Cbenical           16,763.0    21,88Q0     6,973.7     3,526.3    10,500.0    6,973.7  Nov'85    Oct'86       11
A-12   Intan Wviaya ahical     Glue               11,780.0    11,785.0    3,516.6     2,333.4    5,850.0    3,516.6  Jan'86    Jan'86
A-13    Dwi Tunggal Mamrine L    Marble            4,926.6     5,347.7    2,295.8     2,459.2    4,755.0    2,295.8  Dec'86    Dec'86
A-16    PorsmaoCeramic         Othr                7,007.5    7,007.5     3,449.3      816.3     4,265.6     3,449.3  May'86   Jul'90
A-18   Ikaindo                 Cabxm Aktif         5,707.7     5,707.7    3,382.0      328.0     3,710.0     3,382.0  Dc'87    Dec'87         -
A-19    Artosx                 Textile            11,430.0    12,738.0    6,689.0      70D.0     7,389.0     6,689.0  Oct'85    Nov'85        I
A-20    Baua                   Plywood Mill        9,230.0     9,170.0    5,635.0          -     5,635.0     5,635.d  Dec'86   Junm'87        6
A-21    Lazoka EkaPasetya      Cpnstruction       10,240.0    11,6309     4,545.0     1,650.0    6,165.0    4,545.0  Dec'85    Dec'88        24
A-22    Asta CiptaReaa         Oi & Natural Gas    5,969.0     5,969.0    3,169.0          -     3,169.0     3,169.0  1986      1986           -
A-23    Ramatex                Tcxdle             16,470.0    18,935.8    9,610.0     1,400.0    11,010.0    9,610.d  Dec'87    Jan'88        1
A-24    Fanili Jaya            Wood Woddng         7,542.2     8,822.1    4,438.0          -     4.438.0     4,438.0  Jun'87    Jal'87         -
A-25    Mapalus Makawanua       Carbon Aktif       8,96S.0    10,205.0    3,262.7     3,392.3    6,655.0     3,262.7  Jun'90      -            -
A-26    PAP Gunung PUD;        Pharnacy           11,027.0    16,483.2    5,800.0     2,864.0    8,664.0     5,800.0  Dec'86    Sep'89       21
A-27    Wisna Sandang Jaya     Tcxile              6,025.0    7,2S8.4    3,448.5       451.5     3,900.0    3,448.5  Mar'88    May'88         3
A-28    Puta Master Sarna      Sipping            12,697.0    14,197.0    7,080.0     2,101.0    9,181.0     7,080.0  Dec'87    Jun'89       18
A-30   Jenla Ferry             Shipping           12,810.0    10,837.0    6,925.0                6,925.0     6,925.0  Dec'87   Jb'88          I
B"C     Indah GOaa Converter   Pinin               5,145.0     6,013.0    1,935.4     1,464.6    3,400.0     1,935.4  Dec'83    Dec'83         -



(Rp midlion)
BAPINDO Financing
-                      Project Completiic Dam
PmjdCost                                             Disbumd
Project                             Natrof                                            own                    up to                      Variaion
Nhl          Bornosr             Subgnyects    Etimated    ASmd         IRD       RMnurcs      II         L2'89   Estimated  Amd  innfiahs
B-02    Pdpadi & Sons           iotel              6,595.9     6,595.9     1,588.0    2,462.0     4.050.0    1,588.0  DI'85    Dec'87         24
B.03    Sibolec                Florncent Lamnp     4S563.0     4,899.5     1,301.6    1,252.4     2,554.0    1,301.0  Dec'83    Dec'83         -
B-04    Maskidani               Pestiida           17,655.8    17,655.8    1,393.8    10,629.8    12,0Q3.6   1,393.8  Dcc'83    Mr'84          -
B305    HiltopHotel            Hotel              2,160.0     4,741.0     1,660.0      250.0     1,910.0    1,660.0  Oct'84    Dec'88
B-06    EJmi Perdana            Hotcl              6,384.6     6,558.7     1,587.2    2,1743      3,761.5    1,587.2  Dec'85    Oct'9         46
B-07    New Minatex            Tcxtic              3,424.5     3,229.0     1,746.5      63.5      1,810.0    1,746.5  Jan'85    Feb'85         I
B-08    Parindo Permri         Partcle Board       10,720.0    10,918.0    1,107.9    5,352.1    6,460.0     1,107.9  Jan'84    Jul'84
B309    Anmada Bumiperdwi      Sipping             2,660.0     3,175.0     1,047.0    1,000.0    2,047.0     1,047.0  Dec'82    Dec'83        12
B-10    Daun Kenana Saki       Animal Feed          1,512.5    1,512.5      686.0       12.3       698.3      686.0  Mar'85    MarS            -
B-IS   Indobaa                 Shdpping            2,300.0     2,300.0     1,495.0         -      1,495.0    1,495.0  Jan'84    Jul'84         I
B-16    Tdmui                  Bicyle Equipawnt      561.3      561.3       112.7      150.6       263.3       112.7  Jan'87    Jan'87         -
B-16    Ind Geneal Jaya Seel   Metal Products      5,453.0     5,453.0     1,673.0    2,065.3    3,7383      1,673.0  Sep'84    Dec'84        3
B-17    Sn Intm Kaplas         Sack                1,562.0     1,453.5      650.0          -       650.0      650.0  Dec'84    Dec'84          I            a
B-18    PutemaMasterSarana     Sbipping            3,100.0     3,100.0     1,715.3     234.7      1,950.0    1,715.3  Dec'85    Dec'85         -           4
B-19    Nusa InWabor           Ddlling             4,379.0     5,279.0     1,753.6    1,526.4    3,280.0     1,753.6      -       -            -
B-20    General Leather        Leadter             1,694.0     1,774.7      674.9      221.6       896.5      674.9  Jun'85    Jan'86         6
B-23    Snmber Sawit Mamwr     Palm Oil            6,969.0     6,979.0      515.1     3,074.6    3,589.7      515.1  Dec'87    Dec'87          -
B-24    Bmteng Ptnua           Rubber              5,087.0     4,597.5      675.4     1,599.6    2,275.0      675.4  JuI'85    Aug'85         1
B-26    Aqa Shipping           Shipping              406.0      406.0       260.0          -       260.0      260.0  Sep'84    Oct'84         1
B-27    TdaukNaulii            Saw MDl               771.0      771.0       388.1       S5.9       444.0      388.1  Dec'84    Dec'84
B-29    KrniaPrimaTape         Gomnmd Tape         2,490.0     2,784.0    1,070.0          -     1,070.0     1,070.0              -           -
B-30    Multi Bubgon Makmhr    Rattan              3,750.0     3,750.0      576.4     1,688.6    2,265.0      576.4  Jun'85    Jun'85         -
B-31    Smber Tanah Ma         Bata                4,S67.0     5,962.8     1,522.0         -     1,522.0     1,522.0  Ma86                    -
B-32    Riasins Abdi           Pbamacy            10,693.0    10,966.0    1,608.5     3,783.5    5,392.0     1,60.5  Dec'82    Feb'83         -
B-32    Kaolin Belituag Uma    Kaolin              2,882.0     2,882.0    1,107.9       20.1     1,128.0     1,107.9  Jun'84    Jun'84        1
B-33    Swunbei Mgab           Oder                2,175.1     2,175.1      785.0      663.3     1,448.3      785.0  Dec'8S    Dec'86        12
B-35  SLxm  Boe                Land Tunsp.         2,480.0     2,201.0    1,300.0      184.5     1,484.5     1,300.0  Oct'85    Dec`85        2
B-37    Daya Sakli Ungg        Plywod              1,700.0     1,847.0    1,105.0          -     1,105.0    1,105.0  Oct'8S    Oct'8S         -
B-39    Rachnmn li Cbemical    Bentoditw           2,941.8     1,692.8      186.0     1,129.0    1,315.0      186.0  Jun'90       -           -
B-40    Panauu                 Spnnig Mill         1,239.0      948.9      490.0           -      490.0       490.0  1. I6    Ju'87          12
B-41    rflewba                Tctil               3,000.0     3,276.0    1,750.0          -     1,750.0     1,750.0  Jan7     Mr87           3
842    Megab delia             R_a                 3,233.0     3,233.0    1,55.0       360.9     1,615.9     1,255.0  Jun'86    J=*M6         -



(Rtp MiHlla)
BAPINDO Fanig
- ~~~~~~~~Ptaiec Cnpl ya Daft
Projec Cost                                           DibPI    C                 oD
Pmojeci                              NuNcof                                            Own                     up o                       Vaniadn
Imrn                SWm            a    kiw               MM    3muR           IQI   D'89  Egna  kiwi
1-43    laeBevar                lift                 3.01.0     3,051.0      9172        7S2.8     1,670.0      917.2  Jan'87    Jan1'7
B45    Dowada Scjabtem          Paint               3,153.4     5,059.0      900.0           -       900.0      900.0  Dec'86    Dec'85        (12)
B-48   blogmi                   Textil              3,4823      3,4S7.9     1,600.0                1,600.0     1,600.0  Jan'87    Jan'87
B-49    SomberHailindo          Fihezy              4,844.0     4,844.0     1,998.0          -     1,998.0     1,998.0  Jm'84    Jun'84           -
B-S0    Pdan batnS              Shiwn                1,917.0    1,917.0     1,194.0       20.0     1,214.0     1,194.0  NuW'86    Jan'86         6
B-S1    KuyaPuua S.             Sponge               1,560.0    1,60.0       637.0       378.0     1,015.0      637.0  Dec'87    Dec'87          -
B-S2    Siaw Anwi               Other               5,147.0     S,147.0     1,814.6      860.0     2,674.6     1,814.6  Dec'86    Jun'86        30
B-S3    Yuyu JayaTextme         Textle                751.0      770.2       125.5       384.5       510.5      125.5  Jul'87     Jul'87         -
B-54    Bengawantex             Textile              1,403.0    1,734.9      564.0       422.0      986.0       564.0  Dec'86    Dec'86
B-56    Senang Khadim  T.       Texdle              3,079.0     2,691.7      562.0       700.0     1,262.0      562.0  Dec'87    Dec'87
B-S7    lltaLajuTamke           Suipping            3,600.0     3,600.0     3,2053           -     3,205.3     3,205.3  Jun'86    Jul'86         I
B-S7    Bandung Mannr           marble               1,310.0    1,310.0      890.0          -       890.0       890.0  Nov'84    Nov'84          -
B-58    SinrTanawag             Steel               7,864.0     7,864.0     1,429.1    2,570.9     4,000.0     1,429.1  Jun'87    Jul'87         -
B160    Mahardi Kunci Mm        Aqua                4,310.0     4,110.0      721.6       278.4     1,000.0      721.6  Dec'87    Nov'87         (1)
"11    Plunsia Mk               Ra                 12.871.8    13.8719     2,334         236       2570        2,33m4  Nov'88    Nov'88          -
TOTAL                                     458,0393   492,8913   184,499.4    82,965.4   267,435.3   184,498.8
-~~ ~    ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~ - - -



.11
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUJNAN INDONGSIA (LOAN 2177-IND)
PROJECTCOMPIBllON REPORT
Finacial Paftfmcsof Subpajes
(RprAa)
Tc.iSak                                 PrCalIk G)                   Prk  . doAve NWs Wb              laB .1   TwlAvwWAuM
F1 lay              Swam Yew             FM Yew             S006em Yew         FM Yew          Swamd Ye          FaeaY          SOA Yew
Sub                              duqsam                   aghaqsa_         deAeeia            uIlaqmam   h        EatliU                          .rIc rtapissia df     dm    dbalpaNm
Fw             BR. a eBbabmi    Ami    IEsagu                   ActuJl   Iasisi    ActaI    EWud    AcaMi   Ihabid   AIm   Hkimi   Amm   B                 A-mi Esaumd A Jem
A401    OnudaMabhab             1,811.0     716.0    1,511.0    1,375.0    (16.8)    (298.0)    328   (1.044.0) neadve negative     1.5 aeave aegive maWdv           0.6  ativ
A.02    A_Maa.                  63360    4549.0    6336.0    8,462.0    531.9        822.9    611.9    590.8    13.4    16.7   13.4    107           4.7     6.0    5.8      3.7
A-03    MmpDay                  3,3S9.0    3,198.9   10,69S.7    4,868.4    440.3    01.1)  2381.3   1,185.6    21.8         -    I           -     12.t       -   129
A4O     Dom Peuswi N_nam        3,633.0    5,646.9   10,391.8   14,9817    (741.7)  (1.297.5)   (3108)  1,452.9    LOU    LOU    LOU       193     LOU      LA=    LoS       7.5
A-O    L4gm Sael Beaidom        8,274.8    6,7393    9,456.0   4,608.0   (165.4)               145.4  negative   gative  npegtive   17 aegarve negave negative    0.9 mengmi
A06    GuaiO ineapk              257.5          -    39002    2,975.    (146.5)          -    (7987)    (24.5)                -               -                -      -       -
A-l   hlalhmiAda                6,54S.8    6,442.7    6S45.8    5,6S       669       4S7.7    423.0    256.0    17.8        8.6   10.0      8.6      66      4.5    4.7      33     1
A-l   AmbkO Gas d              13,37S.0   14,417.9   14,632.0   14,044.S   1,077.0   569.    1,077.0    603.9    15.9       9.7   15.5    10.6       7.7     3.9    7.6      4.3 
AM9    Pdam         ma          3,314.0    4,02.3    3,814.0    5,832.6    (65.6)    404.3      14.7    900.2              17.4    3.5    27.9               2.2    02      2.5   La
A-10      se hom IedUtb .       5,400       367.5    6,300      5353     (374.5)  (2,371.0)    153.8   (1,97)    (3.9)   (83.0)   67.0   (33.0)    (2.9)   (1.3)   (12)   (155)   I
A-11   RUcPmeflnUtmn            4.1540    6,97    4,69.0    5,7.M3         140.7  (1,532.0)    4163   (2,134.6)    2.5   (21.1)    7.0   (353)       1.0    (5.9)    33     (03)
A-12   labWijayO als    5,937.0              92.2    9,792.0    6,131.6    342.0    (109.8)  1,662.0   (630.9)     6.5    (2.3)   29.9   t21.7)     3.1    (0A)   15.7    (32)
A-13    DwL Tomgd MI              3,903.    534.5    2,23.3      768.8   (234.0)    (66         429     748.9        -       *                                 -
A-16    Pws-oCeawic             3,541.1         -    4M59.7               (385.5)                           -    (170)       -    (60)             (6.0)       -              -
A-l    Ik&de&                   2,600    2 0              -          -        -
A-19    A M                     7,390      6,039.S   10,501.4    8,470.7    (49.6)   167.9   (36        (5323)    (1.0)     1.4   (7.7)    (3.6)    (03)    0.6   (2.6)   (13)
A-20    BM.                     6265.    40,1830    7,50    46,700.0  74,400Q0    1,0.         485.2    970.0      1.8     7.0  16         4.0       7        -    43        -
A.21    L        hPM           13,156.3    3,2933   16,325.3   13,6241     416.1   (1273)  1,130.0   (197.7)       3.7   (33.6)    69      (1.)     5.2   (10.9)   11.7    (1.4)
A-22    Alf0pipR _tem           2,05.2    1AM4.0   3,756.0    4,01       1.214.9  (54,13.0)  1.321.7   (190.7)    44.2            5Q6        *    27.7        -   21.5        -
A-23    Ram=                   19,6326   23447   20425.9   27,34S3    1,190.0    1,706.4   1.5884    1,637.9    16.5       J.5   2Q.2       7.1     5.6      3.1    7.6     23
A-24    Pazlaye,                5,04       2404.0   12,7.6    4,879.0   (154.1)    (452        735.2  (2.630.0)    (4.0)   (12.7)   16.0   (3.0    (1.5)    (3.9)   6.4  (297.O)
A-25    M_du 'A-.u              1,701.0         -    3,80 8                64            *      354        -.       -                -          - .   ..
A-26    PAPG      PSi           7,93S0          -    3,230                 195.0        *    234.0          *      6.2       *    7.0        -     14.0       - ISS9
A-li27    WImS    ugla         12,0201     5,3067   14,230.2              196.4    (426.0)    700.0         *      4.2     6.5   130         -      1.5    (1.*    S.6
*-28    PaUMSISSUU              3,121.6 A            3,121.6         -    293.9               35.8         *      6.5       -    1.9               2.5       -    3.0
A-30    Jambea                  2,456.3    8,S2.3    3275.7     S42.8    166.9    (627.8)    208    (3363)         3.7             4.4       -      1.3       -     1.7



Toemi Sam                                3'edk Gas.)                  itaE"SagI.dAwiapNoeW~           haEia as % .SITcm3Awavow
ftm Yes             SGsmi Yew           3raae               Second Yew         F= Yew         Seasm Yew         ftgYes         S_Yew
Sub                              otmymu               of   _dMw dMsp o    .1 Mufhm df htqi_o                     dMopmUim        dfl opera..      stmaaam         uIM.puu
a              awn        d Acud     kaom       Aumi    Enim.od    Actmi    Bai          Mud   i    s     Aud  OWm   Aa          BAd   Aud  Bain4"  AMM
3W01  I~hGeuhmCa u -r           5,611.0    7,S31.0    5,611.0   3009.      301.8      56       333.7    (37.0)   136        2.5   13.7    (1.7)     6-4      07     7.      P4)
B432    PIU& Sam                6,066.0    4,04.6    6,066.0    4,731.0    256.8    (620.9)    298.8    6073       5.5 mcgawvc    6.1    262       29.0 aepdit      3.6      72
503    Sldec                    4S11.      3,404.9   5,460.0    6.08.9    342.1      224.7    138.4    421.6       7.0      6.6    3.5      7.0    17.9      3.3   149       53
34      Milid                  17,656     17,3560                                           -            -        - -  -     -               -                        -       -
Bo5        Ta3                                  -         --                   ---*                                  -       -       -        - -  -  -  -
B46    EIPtrda                  2,691.9    3,213.3    2,822.0    3,S33.4    (33.4)    (330     113.5   (533.7) 1.09.0  1,053.0    2.9  1,09.0  1,055.0  109.0    1.5  109.0
B-30    New I_x,                3,445.0   14.9551    9,460.0   16,033.1    211.0    (390       610.0   1,.2
343    Pud mPeai                6065.0    2,215.0    7,2S.7    3 0.0   7900.0   (3,137.1)   2623   (3.923.2)       2.5             6.4              0.9        -    2.8
B49    AJrA  Baud Padw         131,89.     1,244.0    i,t39.0    1,140.0    104.3    341.1      53.2    304.6    76.0    5S5    74.6    50          4.3    10.2    2.6    10.
B-10    D    Kema S1 d            34S           -      947.7     161.8       3.0         .      36.3   (179.0)       -       - 
1S15    I1ms                    2,783.7    2,353.8    2,783.?    2,14t1     81.7      769       84.8    (84.5)     4.1     4.2    4.1    (4.7)        3      1.     1.8    (19)
B-16   kIgGeaalYaja Sues       14.011.7   IS,34.4   14,011.0   18,521.7    549.9     187.7    469.9    341.8    33.0       5.5   13.3       86      5.1      1.1    4.5      13
B-17    SdIlasKKpkIa             933.0      977.8    1.4880    2,144.0      45.1     232.9    114.4    281.0       6.2    23.7   13.0    14.0       3.1      3.6    7.3     9.7
B-18    P    Mmmc r S_u         1,635.0    2,3481     1,6350    2,208.9    144.6     136.9    191.5    102.4   I36          1.6   323       1.2     4.9      1.3    7.2     0.8
B-19    NM 1l1b Bar             3,2013    1,201.3    2.9408    1,554.4    442.7    (4S2.4)    493.0   1,973.0    200    Lta         4     La        2.5    LA      11.9    La U
B-2     0 uL e                  3,905.7    6,56.9    2,043.7    9,782.7    118.4      51.7    15S.       7Q8      21.0     7.9   27.0      I0.0    25.0       .    27.1     2.5 
B-22   KIa  Bdig                  354A.6    833S      13620    1,437.0      20.4     154.7      69.0     91.3      5.0      E4     5.2      6.2     2.2      0.2    3.4     4.5     1
B-24    BDim  PAm               S394.0    5,177.8    6,340    7,322.7    3S6.0    (328L4)    503.7   (623.2)       9.9    (9.2)   124    (21.0)     4.9    (3.3)    7.0    (6.1)
B-26    Aqh   9iwSli            9,9143               9,914.3               684.2         .    701.1               22.8       .   2R9         -      8.9            10.5
8-27    Tdhk N"l                9,314.0    1,369.1    9,363.6    2,785.9    280.7    (675.0)    312.4    35.0    13.6    12.5   12.5        6.      0.1    (6.3)   0.1    (2.3)
B-29    K.IsPma u               2,353.0         -    3,959.7         -    264.8                77.5         *    2S.8             52.9       *     11.5       -   31.4
8-30    Maa BWM= Makmw          4,S45.2              S,169.8               262.9         -    345.7         -      I.3             6.7              3.7       -    4.9        -
0-31    Smu@Tmab Mm             1,629.6              1,779.6     497.1    133.7          .    237.5   (481.6)      4.3       -    7.4   (13.6)      3.0       -    5.      (7.9)
B-32    Riaiwm Abe&             6,6880    9,023.3    7,282.0   30,267.6    339.0    1,03S.     398.0    943.4    22.9    82.0   21.2    41.1        6.6    20.4    3.0    14.0
B-33    Su_ai Megh              1,041.6     679.4    1,364.0   2,059.8    (968)       16.6     24.3    579.2   (14.2)      1.9    3.5    39.9    (4.7)    0.8    13        17.9
B-34    S=W SDS     Mia Ma      4,817.4         -    7.171.2         -    221.5                563.0                              III .   33  -     6.5       -   23.1        -
.-35    S nhB mr                2,2093    2,423.6    2,133.2    2,541.6    117.9    (I125)    162.4    138.8       4.4   (12.8)    6.3   109       3.3    (4.0)   4.7      S3
8-36    Tdmuuz                   799.0      773.0     864.0      82.0       36.5      44.4     37.5      45.0    14.9    11.4    9.7    11.2        7.0     7.3    5.0    S5
B-37    Dap Sak6 Uqul                    3S,604.0              53,794.0       -    2,69           *   9,623.0       .      7.8       -     360        -     7.4       -    17.9
B-39    Rabmu lndCbemicai        1071.1                101-                 86.8         *     868                31.3       -   31.3        -     1al        -   Il3
N



(RpamAii)
ToeMul PSassh                                   )                    ft(ba P . %ueAvta  NetWak  Pwb & Sx   T   AA            AmA
Fun Yeg             SODeOM Ye            FTm                second Ye          Pl Yeft        Saw" Yew          Fa Pt            S  Yew
S*                               ot    eawl           of " cpuiom         of Ii oaim          of toii opernom   of te qieuio    of fupqisl       o teOpiom       d omaism
-              Dome            daimaud    Aud       fjauagd    AFu5      M_wd    Acuul    EtAimAcd   A_ed 1   kujd  AdEl    Gud  AadI  M              d   Ac    Euuiagid  Ami
B40    P                        1,797.7     444.4    2,103.0                46.7    (429.0)    98.1                7.6       -    131               3.5             7.3
B-41   Trha                     9,6s6.0   13,104.6    9,656.0   17,9S9.2    791.3    (79.1)    857.8    336.4    18.2    (2.4)   19.7    10A4       6.3    (03)   6.8       23
8-42    Megak Bdia              8360.2    4.124.4    3.9207    5,587.9    2093        37.3    166.9    387.9       6.2     1.2    4.3       6.9     6.7      0.8   11.0     4.7
B43    bdoEl ievr               1,809.0     113.0    2,499.0     674.0    (50.0)    (181.9)    183.7   (860.7)    (3.1)   (17.7)   10.3   (13.3)    (1)    (3.8)   5.7   (13.4)
8-45    Dea1 Sejahem            4,460.1    4,678.5    7,836.4    7.490.4    341.0    1813      663.5   (666.3)    13.1      7.4   219    (29.1)     6.0      3.1   10.3   (10,4)
B48    Ioarg                    4,189.8    3,229.6    8,949.4    5,208.4    445.5    (344.4)    587.7    52.0    12.9   (18.1)   16.3       3.0     4.8    (3.9)   6.5      0.6
B-49    SsmbcrIl jndo           1,150.0         -    4,226.2    2,505.6    (7.6)               358.0   (1803)        -
B-50    Pur toa Son             1,658.7    1,467.5    1,657.8    1,250.5    135.7    (323.1)    163.7  (1,067.4)   8.3   (47.9)    9.1   (53.9)     4.1   (10S)   5.2   (12.5)
B-Si    KuyaPotmSanggkuiag      1,445.0    1,447.3    1,610.0              178.2     187.2    143.9         -     15.9    18.1   11.4        -      9.1      9.2    7.6
B-S2    SimAmml                 4,830.0              6,482.0         -     (S&)          -    2SS.1         -     (2.3)      .    9.2              (1.1)       -    4.S       -
B-53    Yuyu yaTTex e           1,208.9    1,209.7    1,459.5    1,468.4    93.2      98.9      72.1    190.9    107        8.6    7.9      5.8     6.4      7.4    4.8    12.4
B-54    B       _egawi          8,(023.0   10,433.8    8,475.0   10,863.5    359.8   (54.)    412.2    332.5
8-56    Sea=g Khauism T.        4,713.5    4,826.0    5,265.0    2,947.5    121.6              191.6        -
B-57    Bha  Laju Tanb          2,742.5    7,720.7    2,733.7   11,353.4    324.2    1,315.8    270.0   1,416.5    12.6    25.4    9.4    21.9      4.6    10.4    3.9    11.8    *
B-SI    SluaTavV=%             10,604.    12,217.0   17,73OO   49,378.0    S36.5    1,7082    708.4   2305.7      5.7    20.6    7.5    26.0       4.5    13.6    5.2      7.7
B-59    saB_mg Mm=              3,560.0    2,960.4    3,916.0    3,242.6    165.8    279.1     35.4    183.7       4.6     9.4    0.9        0      3.9      6.1    09      4.0
B-60     bardi Kum Mu           2,219.0         -    4,643.0               1 164.5       -    333.7         -     36.4            42.5              4.8        -    8.0
B-61    Pluaala Mk              1,908.9    4,673.1    2,621.6        -     (43.0)    (73.5)    124.4              (1.6)   (17.0)    4.6            (0.1)      .    2.5
TOTAL                F360,190.7  362,244.8  419,812.1  473,039.1  95,635.7  (S7M669.6) 25,286.5  12,303.6
-uI



INDONLSA
BANK PEGAB U10NZ   tNNES  (LAN 2277-IND)
PtOJBCTCOMPFLnON RBFORT
Ommonc PI1IW IUSO(S.bIK*I
('
Rapes                   Eapau -Se           1_Ia               h     u                              I_ii             Ea_it
SobFM TeY                                           SON" Ya T         u& S..d TYe)          r               pmWmkw               an    d()                         3(I,)
Ib_            B _mu.d  Amii    Esaginsd   Asi    Bned  Ami   Diu.d    Aae               laimad   Ami       BaiAmi    Ain    bdad  Ami   Smimd  Amid
A41           L     =                         -        -         -                        24       30     244.0     1             -         -     163       -     12
A-4     Al .                        -                  -         -       -       -        40     1,500     192.1    2404    1,217   1.372         29.2      -
A0      M g Daa                3852.7            1032.0                                  72
AOl   DubPg tiwiNm                  -                            -       *       -       NA       NA        NA        NA        NA        NA      NA      NA       NA     NA
A-OS    LqamSad Bedi                     -        - *            -       -       -       332      332      35.0      48.9              -          18.5      -    21.7
A406    GmaiPfe                2,5D7          -   8,902          -    28.1   100.0       119      900       14.5        -       25.2        -    20.2             25.5
AC?    Idet- - *dma-a                         -                  -                                 49        *      226.9         -         -        -      -               -
A-U     AisOubdado                  -                  -         *               -      1.125    1,130      3.4       3.4       167      163      NA      NA       NA     NA
A-4     P n        LAN              -         -                  -       -       -       IS        125      29.5     27.2      697.4        -      14       -    23.3       -
A-10    BamNldsMlA              2700       92.2   3,150.0    137.0    5ao    250         142         -     77.3              -              -     19.5      -    36.5       -
A-1l    RedomPecoliaUwma                      -        -                 -        -       89       103     186.7    161.3    4,276.5              19.8      -    24.9       .
A-12    Im Wijayaai                 -         -                                  -       120     1,00D     9&2       98.5                         I t 1o    -    27         -
A.13    Dwihaald L                  - A                          -   -           -       231      300       119         -    1,18.1         -    20.1       -    34.7
A-16    PaoCeammc                        -        -         -        -           -       114         -      53.1        -    2,189.0              19.2      -    37.7       -
A-18   Ikddo (amdy pd)              -                  -             -       -             -             -         -         -         -        -       -       -       -
A-19    Ans                         -         -        -         -       -               212     1.O00     53.9    1C0.6    1,128.0   1,00        201       -     18        -
A-20     L_u                   S,60   1,271.0   7,186.0   3,990.0    90.0    67.0        433     10W       213          -    2,714.2        -    21.        -    24.6       -
A-21    Lo   ElmPi                  -         -        -         -       -       *       103      120      21.9      269    7,151.2               25.5      -    35.4
A-22    AshCpRaea                   -         -        -         -       -       -        53       53      112.6    112.6         -         -    23.8       -    33.8
A-23    Raunax                           -             -         *       -       -       169      169       81.3     81.3    4,289.9        -     19.6            26.1      -
A-24    Fuinlpa               4,300   2,404.0  IO,100.    4,604.0   164.0   183.0       139         -     54.2         -    2,332.0        -    21.0       -    26.5
A-25    Mapd uiMbrwanna             -         -        -         -               -       121         -     74.1         -    3235.4         -    264        -    29.        -
A-26    PAPGuu,gPuud                -         -        -         -       -       -        86        -      104.0        -       20.6        -    22.8       -    48.3       -
A-27   YWini SJadang Jam-                     -                  *   -           -        38       38      158.6    158.6    2,043.3        -    212              19.S      -
A-28    PaMs MasctSaSnm             -         *        -             -            -       32       28     394.1    507.0    2,361.2               1.3-    29.4              -
A-30    JeniaaPey                   -         *        -         -       -                28       28     457.5    387.0    2,197.9         -    24.4             222       -
10



(P-
E_p_                    EXpon a % SeE      bcrmial             lavaimw                              Fasesa          ECMmk Ern
316                               EWYl               Second Yew   _F  & Sed Yew)          Wmm               pUWinI              Va Added          ofUM(I)         Sta S%)
DoBMe          UEmuQd   AdUd    Iabmi   Ame    Bukagd  AmeS   Daled   AeS    Ea_idd   AmeluS    Esiald    Aae    Em AaiudAe   Ekod  AceS
301    I0"GhG     omtcr                                                                 117       121      33.4     32.3    1,036.0        -     15.4       -    21.0
30      P41jiA &                    -         -                  -                                   -                  -                            -               -       -S
B303    Sibhec                      .         .         -            -            -      210       225      21.6       96     1,124.0       -     16.6       -    27.5
346    MeMm  (aadypd)                                                                                - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -      -        -        -               -
84S    Hill T  Ihrd                      -              -        -        -       -        -                       -               -        -        -       -
346    EId P _                      -         -         -             -           -      230       255      27.8     25.7          -        -        -       -     133
3.0     Nm    u-                              -         -        -        -       -      378       850      13.9        -   44.(0                 164        -    25.0
B43    Psiado Pamui            5,307.0        -   6,305.         -    87.0        -      258       too      41.6        -    2,013.3              13.2       -    23.9
B459    Anna  Bond   Pawi                                 F                               44        44      60.S     72.2      7933         -     17.5            2312
B-10    Dm  Kcacn SeS            884.5              997.7    161.8        -               94        94      14.2     14.2          -        -     17.8   17.8    21A    218
B-IS     dob                        -         -         -        -        -       -       54        54      42.6     42.6      816.2        -    23.0             45.6
B-16   b1a Ged Yaja Sud             -         -         -        -        -       -       35       200      73.5        -                   -     19.9       -    242        -
8-17    Sd     K u                            -         -        -        -       -      168       150       8.5      9.5      539.3        -     17.        -    48.2       -
3813    P    M     usaS                       -         -        -                -       28        28     110.7    110.7      989.9              2.4        -    27.9 
8-19    Nu     Baf                  -         -        -                  -       -                           -         -                   -Bar  21.9      -     27.5      -
B-20    Omn Leadse             1.4t6.4   6.569.9   1,594.0   9,782     7&0   100.0        74       76       22.9     23.4      623.0    990.4    24.5        -    3Q0       -
B-22    Koli eA                     -         -        -    643.0         -    43.2      320       200        *   9,000.0                   -    21.8       -    33.1       -
B-24      _   P _mm                 -         -        -         -        -              105       99      20.9      23.6         -         -     19.7      .
B-26    Aiappg                      -         -         -        -        -       -        2        2      191.0    191.0         -         -    210         -       -      -
B-27   TSik Nall               9.2llQ0   1.637.0   9,E0.0   2,62Q0     98.0                -         -        -         -         -             -        - .
3-29    K.maPd=Tmp                  -         -        -             -            -      130         -      16.-    1,11D.0                 -    25.5             11.9      -
8-30    MO BdDI    Maknw    4.452             -   5,169.8       1-0.0             -      26f         -      9.6         -    1,146O         -     19.6      -    23n
B-31    SlTshMu                                        * * *     -       -               136        *      2 17              1,21A0 18.                     4 *    242
B-32    RllAb                                 .        *                  *       -      101         -      32.5                MA        MA      19.0             NA     NA
B-33    S_Me                        - M e*                       -        -               68-              27.5         -      730          -    23.4       -    21.l
B-34    S*wSUawi w                  -         -   3,50.2               489        -        -      251      25.1         -      59.1         -    25.1             25.0
8-35    S    iB                     -         .        .         .        -               61       61      40.2      35.6         -         -        -
3-36   TSm_                                                                              I -  -I -  -  IO  15O  2.8   2.8        3.7      3.7    17.7   17.7    260    27.0
B-37    Dap Sda Ual                 -  34085.0             51,3.0        -    95.7        2-000                         -    3,0            -    202        .        -      -
B-39    Rebma hd Ceas               .         -                          -        -       75      NA        5.8       NA          -         -    236        -        -      -
3.40    P    _                      -         -        -         -       -       -        56               16.5                 84.8        -    21.?             51.0



-50-
ai~                                                                   ANNEX~ 8
ii 11           44                                                         Page 38
1.                          . .   .  .   .
I                               -_M  
i  9 9 l" ,.~   * ' * *  90 S*        s 
*1       1        .     .   .  q
~1   .9.0..                         @X 
} #|1    N  . .R. . . . . . . . . . .E 
Ijj g] X }1 1 1 S}Xs 51] j U
a   e* tqc a a.           .*39o222



- 51 -                                                          ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN :2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subproect Loan Arrer as of Dcnember 31, 1989
Aneus amount (RR 000.000)
Sub                                 3-6         6-9        9-12       12+          No.
pminot forrogr                      monh         nmths    mns         m o          A a
A-06     GTtat Giant Pineapple          -           -          -          -           Yea
A-13     Dwi Tunggal Mancr Indah       -           -          -          -           Yes
A-16     Passmo Ccramic                 -           -          -          -           Yes
A-25      Mapalus Makawanua             -           -          -          -           Yea
B-20     General Leather                                 -                -           Yea
B-39     Rachbmn Inti Chemical          -           -          392.0      -
B-49     Sumnber Haslindo               -           -          -          -           Yes
TOTAL                                                392.0
A-01     Garuda Mahakam                 -           -          -          -           Yes
A-02     Alenax                         -                      -          -           Yea
A-03     Maraga Dqya                    -           - &                         Aledy repaid
A-04     Duta Pertiwi Nusantara         -           -          -          -           Yes
A-OS     Logamn Sari Bearindo           -                                 -           Yes
A-07      Mafha Bor Indonesia           641.0      647.0       647.0     1716.0
A-08      Aneka Gas Industri            -                      -          -           Yes
A-09     Pelayaman Pulan Laut           -                -           -                Yea
A-10      Brcton Indo Marbel            131.0       43.0       -          -           Yes
A-11     Redeco Petrolin Utama                                 -          -           Yea
A-12      Intan Wijaya Chemical         -                      -          -           Yes
A-18      Dcaindo                       -           -          -          -           Ycs
A-20     Baasan                         -           -          -          -           Yea
A-21     LatokaEkaPsetya                -           -                     -           Yea
A-22      Astha Cipta Rencana                      e-          -          -           Ys
A-23     Ranatex                              -          -           -                Yea
A-24      Pani"i Jaya                   -           -          -          -           Yes
A-26     PAP Gunung Putri               -           -                -                Yes
A-27      Wisma Sandans Jaya            330.0       -          -          -           Yes
A-28      Putera Master Sarana          -                      -          -           Yes
A-30     IcJla Feny                     --                     -           -          Yes
B-01     Indah Gmha Converter           661.4
B-02     Pudjiadi & Sons                -                                 -           Yes
B-03     Sibslec                        -                                             y -  -  Yes
B-04     Masldtan                       -           -          -          -           Yes
B-OS     HUi Top Hotel                  -           -          -          -           Yes
B406     Elmi Perdana                               -                     -           Yes
B-08     Padndo Pernui                  -           -          -          -           Yes
B-09     Arnada Bufmi Perwi             -           -          -          -           Yes
B-10     Daun Kencana Sald              -           -          --                     Yes
B-15     Indonarona                     -           -          -          -           Yes



- 52  -                                       ~~~~~~~~ANNEX 9
- S2-                                                    Page 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANOUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN :2277-lND)
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
Subp$ect Loan Arer. as of December 31, 1989
Sub                                3-6         6.9       9-12       12+          No.
wi    aooe months                             Mnoths    fmdis    nmoths         Atrea
B-16     Ind Geneal Yaja Steel                                                     Yes
B-17     Sn Intan Kaipls                          -          -          -          Yes
B-18     Putera Mastr Saa                    -               -          -          Yes
B-19     Nusa Indr Bor                 718.0      590.0      593.0     1215.0
B-22     Kolin Belitung Utsma          -          -          -          -          Yes
B-24     Banteng Prom                  -                     -          -          Yes
B-26     Aquaria Shipping              -          -          -          -          Yes
B-27     Teluk Nauli                   -          -          -          -    Aleady repaid
B-29     Kunda PrimaTape               -          -          -          -          Yes
B-30     Muld Bulgon Makmur            -          -          -          -          Yes
B-31     Suinber Tanab Ms              244.0      430.0      431.0     1102.0        -
B-32     Riasima Abadi                 -          -          -          -          Yes
B-33     Sunberi Megah                 -          -          -          -          Yes
B-34     Sumber Sawit Mlalnur          -          -          -          -          Ye
B-35     Sixna Brother                 -          -          -          -          Yes
B-36     Tnmuni                         20.0       56.0       18.0       18.0        -
B-40     Panasuim                      271.0      179.0      251.0      457.0        -
3-41     Trhuada                       *          *          -          -          Yes
B-42     Megah Beia                    -          -          -          -          Yes
8-43     Indo Elevator                 -          -          -          -          Yes
B-45     Dowala Sejahtem               -          -          -          -          Yes
B-48     Inogari                       -          -          -          -          Yes
B-S0     Ptlau Intan Sari              113.8
B-SI     Krya Putra Sangkurdang        -          -          -          -          Yes
B-52     Sinar Anauil                  -          -          -          -          Yes
B-53     Yuyu Jaya Teictre             -          -          -          -          Yes
B-57     Bhaita Laju Tanker            -          -          -          -          Yes
B-58     Sinar Tangerang               -          -          -          -          Yes
B-59     Bandung Mamr                  -          -          -          -          Yes
B-60     Mahardi Kunci Ms              -          -          -          -          Yes
B-61     Palunesia Makmur              -          -          -          -          Yes
TOTAL                       3130.2     1945.0    1940.0    4508.0



- 53 -                                               ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Uwe of Consultants' and Training Funds
(Past A-2 of the Project)
Subnitted     Approved        Total
To I.B.R.D.    By I.B.R.D.   Reimbursen3nt
Ng                DessigtionS
1.       FRONT END FEE                                520,948.00    520,948.X0
H.       CONSULTANT SERVICES (Ceiling USS2,750.000.00)
I        Cegir Consultant             1.073,072.00    1,073,072.00  690,S76.06
2        Mr. GM. CoUado                 158,000.00    1S8,000.00     108,820.87
3        F.W.A. Consultant              90,000.00      90,000.00     37,101.08
4        NtA.C. Consultant L           383.000.00     383.000.00    378,607.67
5        Tauche Ross Damwan             29,982.00      30,3S0.15     30,3S0.15
6        Tn Hasta Consultant             22.486.00     22,486.00     22,296.07
7        Hadori Yunus & Co.             37,477.00      42,972.81     42,972.81
8        Unecona Agung                  37,477.00      37,477.00     32,564.96
9        MA.A.C. Consultant M.         383,250.00     383,250.00    385,174.10
10      John W. Fletcher               130,800.00     130,800.00     74,S99.26
11       BinaPmanaBakti                 48.00          38,S34,19     3    2
TOTAL CONSULTANT SERVICE (11)         2,393.S44.00   2,389,942.1S    1,841,597.22
III.  OVERSEAS TRAINING
I        Duing 1983-1984                104,874.00    104,874.00    102,196.53
2        During 1986                    164,485.65    170,903.92     170,903.92
3        During 1987                     53,594.00     62,812.55     62,81Z55
4        During 1985                    138,899.70    127,459.70     112,430.22
S        M.A.C Tnining H                123,375.00    123,375.00     103,167.40
6        During 1989                     59,489.50     57,429.50     57,271.53
7        During 1989                    345.000.00    34S.00D00     217Li0
TOTAL OVERSEAS TRAIN1NG (III)          989,717.85     991,854.67    826,688.05
IV.      TRAINING EQUIPMENT (Ceiling US$300,000.00)
I        Duding 1987                    188,460.00    211,729.57    211,729.57
2        During 1988                    113,883.83    113,883.83     113,883.83
3        During 1989                    1.2L259.57    1S6,95L87     I679Ll7
TOTAL TRAINING EQUIPMENT (IV)           489,302.40    512,571.97    512,571.97
TOTAL: I + 11 + m + IV                3,872,564.25    4,415.316.79    3,701,805.24



VNDONESA
BANK lE I IANNUNAN VNMEMA. -LOAN NO. 2277-ID
Fum BUAINDO MOJECT
PRoJBcF COMPLInON REPORT
Cbaracteridc of nbirlal Lai  Ca.ulied, 1984.-190
QSb_('p -   1
1964                 1965                  1966                   1987               193                      1969
No. S  AmL % N06   AWLNS  ALN6S S A N                                                           S S N6  % S     S  S    A 
Sin (Rp .1
bwesi.em L~ms
Upto4O              2    3       97   -  4   7        117     .-    .         .   -.-    I         8   -   2   1        46   -   I   I          20   0
41- 120             4    6      290   -  7  13        492   -  10  16       727   1   5   6      386   -  12   8    1.137   -  4   2           336   0
121 - 200           6 1o         931   1   5   9      915  1  9  14    1.426   2   8  10    1512   1  13   9    3.145   -  11  6               .615   0
201 - 400            6   10    1819   2  10  19    3.032   2  10  16    3091   4   9  11   3.5   3  11   8    3547   1  13  7                 4.168 0
401 - 800           17   27    8529  10  10  19    6.892   4  10  16   6.067   7   7  15    3012   3  17  11   10.243   2 25  13             14A08    I
801-2,000          21   34   41.631  49   8  14   14.046   7  14  21   17.703  22  20  26   21.654  18  37  25   50.729  10  31  16          43.618   4
Ov 2,000              5   10   32.456  38  10  19  152234  86  11  17   51315  64  24  31   91.2   75  57  3517.127   7 1045S    1069.552  94
TOTAL    g E         1T   U1M  i-   3i TM   R77         T- !U    To       -   TR 7 loi    D. i      - o  1T4.9   3U  W       4  TM  1-  w  1.133.817 X
Ave size of k_                        1332                 3.291                 1265                  155                  3.554                   5999
Wvg L I
Upto4O              5    4       86   -   7   6       187   -   8   6       254   -       -       20   -  6   3        221   -  4   2          107  0
41- 120            13   12      932   2  28  23    2.548   3  19  13    IA85   2  10   3    1.090   1  16   7    2.053   - 23   9            2.156   1
121 - 200           14   13    2.347   4  15  12    2.794   4  24  17    3892   5  20  12    5.04   3  34  17    7.56   2  20   8             3.204   1
201-400             12   11    3.197   6  24  20    7A41  11 28  20    9.189  11  10   6    2.927   2  23  11    7.799   2  42  17           12.867   3
401 - 800           15   14    9.924  18  21  17   11.90  16  33  23   19377  24  58  26  45.235  29  49  24   39.140   8  52  21            29A16   7
Over gO            51  46   36.792  70  26  22   47.923  66  29  21   48255  56  44  53  102.713  65  77  38  408.440  88 110  44    382.954 89
TOTAL            flU   M            i   i   Ti 7309I    T    1TD               T0 rd   X        W    T           TM   46S23 i0      TM 41   3 0.70
Ave ize of ha.                         503                   603                  585                  1.09                 2269                    1.716
De n (tamis)
bwcme L_s
Unf  2.0            5    6    7.946   9  8   15    2AS0   1   8  12    5.920   7   5   7    2.040   2  22  15   18.612   4  25  14            7A03   1
2.0 - 3.9          2    3    1.080   1   3   6    1.590   1   8  12    2.647   3  12  16   6.678   6  12   8    5.641   1  10   5           80596   7
4.0 - 5.9          16   26   15.996  19  15  27    7.249   4  14  22    9A04  12  29  40   33.841  28  46  30  140.897  26  50  26    121.005  11
6.0 - 7.9          17   27   26.129  31  14  26   17.981  10  16  25   20.355  25  13  18  39569  33  31  21  162.790  31  59  31    301A59  27
80  9.9            15   24   18.125  21  11  20  133.290  75   9  15  21.726  27  10  14  28.580  23  31  21  125.070  24  24  13    169.576  15
10. aoa               7 12 16.464 19 3 6 15.12S 9 9 14 20.877 26 4 5   0.001 8   7  5 7650 14 20 11   453.778 40
TOAL              0   TW  S5.140 TO0   i TM4Tiiiii 77.71S i   ; 100  SQ 92 M   'R  M    W.7S9 14    0    MW                 iS9.50 -   ro-  T    1.13.1 TO
00 



UDONE8A
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONRSU - LOAN NO. 2277.IN
FWFTl BAPIDO FROJECF
PROJECT COMPLEY1ON REPORT
bawactaige of Iwdustiu Loas= Cowum!114d 18 - 193
1984                1985                1986                1987               1988                  1919
NO. %  AmL % No. S  AML %No. %  AmL %No. %   AmL %N06%   AmL *No.%    AmL~
WdgIaedby  Iebe        5.8                  6.0                 6.3                  5.6                 5.7                 6.6
Weicist"by aloccu                   7A                  8.                   1.0                7.0                  74                    1.3
Wafting CaVhal 1.0801
mulew2.0               39   35  2C.948  3198974   58.583 80 119184   72.316 8899 70  109.612  70 164  80 353.881176 219187   370.430186
2.0 -3.9               14  13    3.826   7  76        1626 2  53           385  - 75    10.024   6  84           9.793  27  3           4.3  11
4.0- 5.9              23 21   2141839 13 11    5.157 711t9    6.969 1897  13.585 9  IS950996 111 14                                     7.912 2
6.0 -7.9               17  16    2.539 4  97    4.963   7  32            1.385 22818 23.768 151It5   33.627   7 I10                     1.130 0
8.0- 9.9               11 10    3.598  7  11           344   1  32       1397  2  --             --4  2    1586   46  2                26.050 6
10.0& ovar                6    S   2.929   5  2   1   2.310  3       -         -       - -  -              -  -   1.074   -  7   3    20.30    5
TOTAL                fl 1-000  35532-8 10-0 12_1 100  72.8-3 100 141 100  di3m  100    too 1001.989 100 29  10_0 465.239 100 251M 10  30.-704 10_0
Weisleed averag
ByzaI ,e               4A                    1.7                1.7                 2.5                 1.9                  1.i
By amw'                             4.1                 2.1                  1.6                2.3                  2.2                   2.1
PFbIpapqeeud prktAig    4    2    638   -  1  1    200   -  4   2    1.017   1  3   1   1.610   1  4   1   2A30   -  6   2             26.770   2                 V
Textile-S             26  1513.90  10 30 17   25.188 1038 22   29.9111859 30 91.276 33 6S21 103.057 1035 11    201A65 13                                          VI
)AalW mkn              19  1121.060 1516 9   27-506 1122 12   23.03614 189 35.76513 31 10159.671 16 196    16)292 10I
Cemeak.casmunC3  s.ugml17   10 25.018 21 12 28.011 126 27.111 17 105    8.367  39  3  12126162                                         46.927 3
(3umicaIa              9    S   9.950  7 13  7   ISAW0  6 126    8.925   69  5   20.711   7 11 4   68.316   715 5                      753305
Rbwaummutcas           3    2    1.250   13  2       1.118  - 53    3.07   2  42    6A14   26  2    28.529  32  1                       1.3950
Ribbaeroceasieg        8    S   4.50    3   1  1       85   -  4   2   2.355   1  Il  6   17.212   6  12  4   20483   2  19  6    106.705   7
MiscelaOU  mdsti&uie    69 40   49.89536 7145 150286 6078 41   60.771 3789442   81A98 32171  56511.673  51 162 52    773.909 49
Tota mamfacnaurg    1B3  -0  126.4  90 163 94   IN 24801      175  92  I1S3  -9  19  94 269.83 -Wig  90  W193.101          M  13   1391493  89
Lute  -Mwai             4    2    1.057   1  6  3    1.797   1  8  4    2.201   1  1  4   2A620   1 12   4   20.727  214   5    24.20    2
Tourism                 13    8  JL32M   9  63          859 18  4    4.89    3  52    5.936  2 21  6   30.980   332 10    148.319 10
Total               T7-2  Soo110    ooiB L15iY    BO NS- YS TI-5  563WI T -oI  HI2   S     W ~ i-M3-si-   OW5If310i-o 1o.564.521 100o-
-wWhc Diabedod'
Nodahsummmea            13    7    3.30  6613811.795 527 14 2647016 15 725325 925 724M 5 226 10                                         41.994 3
Somub swm&=r             3   512.914  921 1226.25 8 1 06  34.189  3  94    1.745 321 636.950 424 9                                      63.166 5
West Java              96   55  62.916  45  81 46  164.143  66  86 45  79.667  49 1t5  56  136.557  49 175  51 529.149  53 141  53    913.938  66
Catra iia               12    7    1370 616 2    4.181  2 27 14    9.856 29 1444.243 16 5014 95267 1031 12                              72.395
pau iav                15    9  11.5393812 720.307818 1022.08713 211038.094 1427 10   61.147   636 14    153.937 11
Kaliuwran              20 1225S30018 1911   21.160  8 19 1017-9                  11 16 7213008 13  5133.197 13197?    150.662 11
Sulawesi ad Mainku      5    3    7452   5 11 6    2.064    184            3.927  2  52    3.700 116  5105.6271t24 9    109.81413
Nsa Tcaggma             3    2   4.203   3  21          793---            -   .-1I-             445  - 82    8.620   19  3              58.034
TOWa                17        141.08 10_0 1-73 5O-  S3E70- fi_3i 5' 38   0-  lIM 2110 5          5  I 3i0 0S          MOS   5  310 ii 1.7566332-1 11-2
a.   mm ad    GM"b



WDONES
BANK PEM ANGUNAN INDONRSA . LOAN NO. 22771ND
FIlTH BAPINDO PROJECT
PROJECT COMPIETION REPOXr
C       _aradulicOf IndUidul IAS CA_Maed   . 198 - 193
(Rp niDMa)
1934                1985                 19B6                 1917                19i_                   1969
No. S   AmL  N06*   AaL  No.    ALNM S  AL % t0. S   A    S No,S  
SW  Of Boow
NV       Sw             161   94  132.757  94 167  95  126.594  S l4  96  1450        189 211 100 278A09 10D 33S 100  99.09ID309   155092199
Ibblic SaI t                        8 6  3168   5  124.107 49  7   4 1 8296  11   -   -                                           2   1      136A0  1
TOTAL               ?iJ  M 1ii        MD i!i75i MD   T WWI    iii 191  163381 i   2flI 1U  27SA09  1i    f 37   IC0   91 3 231  ICi
N=   POojeca
New                     23   18  3842  27 30  17  38.170  15  32  17  24A12  15 101 48  142.157  51 216  64 674.699  68 168 54  1.134A49 73
Expusiom                149   82  H2726  73 145  83 212531 85159  83  138.969  85 110  52 136252  49122  36  325.110  32142  46    430.227
TOTAL               1  rn 1416 TM1s 75 TO0 2Sr TO -iFi 1M T   TM FIT TM   l  TM TR TM WW 1TM 1T1i   1564521 TM
-~~~~~~-
^  _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA - LOAN NO. 2277-IND
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
PROJECT COMPIElnON REPORT
Chancrlade of Maritime Loans CotI4ed, 1984 - 1989
(Rp nila)
1924                 1985                  1986                  1987                1988                   I989
No.    %   Ami   % No.z           Amt.     No. %        AmL z   No.  %    Amt %  No.  %    AmL  %  No.  %                mL   %
A. Saic Rp mil)
Invanter LOanS
Upto4O              .      -      -   .   -   -        -   -   -                                  .    .  -
41- 120             1    11    53   -   -              .   -   I   a        C0  -    -    -       .    .    .    .            -      - -           -
121-200             1    11   194   2   -   -           -         -                               -   -    -    -       -    -    -    -
201 - 400            -     .         -     1  25      260   2  1  8         3171                 - -     -   -         .                .        
401 - S00           2    22    907   7        -         -   -  4  34    2.154  7           - -     -   -       17     80  8a 1  8            59    1
OverSOS             5    56 11253  91   3  75   13.072  98  6  50   31239 92   1100    5.035 0 IO    5   3   9.543  92  12  92  91534  99
TOTAL            9    100 12.407 100   4 100   13332 100  12 100   33.810100   I 100   5.035 100   6 100  10343 100  13 100   92.09   100
Ae size of bans                    1379                  3.333                 2.818               5.035                 1.724                 7.04
Weklg CitI L s                                                                                                                                                               ,
Upto4O 3 37 86 3--
41- 120             -      -      -   -   -   -        --2         20       93  3   --            --    6  60        460  25     - -          -    -
121 - 200           1    13    133 4         -          --    3  30        495 16    --           - -      2  20      325  17  3  50        431  26
201-400             -                                           3 -   -   -   -  --3 30    IM5 33   -   -  -   - I  10  380  20   1  17      225  13
401 -         00-                  -   -   -   -        --          10      532 17        -     -        1 I  10      714  38   2  33    103  61
Over S00           4     50  31519 3   2 100    1.166 100   1  10          950 31                           _           -  _       _        _ 
TOTAL              8    100  3270 100   2 100    1.166 100  10 100    3.105 100   -   -              -  1100    1 .879100   6 100    116  100
Awe uzceof bms                       307                  583                   311                                        188                   281
OA



EDONESU
BANK FMBMANGUNAN INDON    - LOAN NO. 2277-ND
MF1r  BAPflQO PROJECT
PROJECT COMI,QON REPORT
Carad1  or MaidM Lo_ C _AiA 11 - 139
Pip mBake)
1984                 1925                 1986                  1967               1913                   1969
No  %  AL  N06 %   Am*  N06 %  ALNo, %AL % No.    AS S N                                                                A:mL %
B. Nmy (Yes)
bnees tm
Undc 2.0                                  1  25    35C0  26   1 8         750   2                -   -   -   -        -   -   -   -
2.0 - 3.9              - -          -   -   125     260   2              -   -                  -.         17      9509              -          -
4.0 - 5.9          2   22   2995  24   -   -          - -    7  59   167  49   -   -            --3        50    5272 51   4  31         7.724   S
6.0 - 7.9          3   33   2595 21   1  25    2577  19   3  25   13.240 39   1 100    1910 1I0  2  33   4.121 40   2  IS    22-9  25
8D abvc            4   45    6.817 55   1  25    70   53   1   8    3A53 10   -                _   _                          7  54     613P   67
TOrAL             9 100   12A07 100   4 100   13337 100 12 100   33.810 100  11l00   1.910 100   6 100   10343 100  13 100    92.093I0
Wig1ked Av0wg
By Number                          7A                   5.0                  5.0
By Amoum                           8.6                  5.                   5.7
Wad*% Capa Lo                                                                                                                                                           co
Under 2.0          3   37       86   3   I  S0      416  36   6  60    1.978  64   -   -         -   -  3  S0    1215  65   S  $3        1.51S  90
2.0- 3.9           1   13      133   4   -   -        -   -   I  10      145   5   -   -        -   -   1  17      200  11   1  17        171  10
4.0 - 5.9          -    -        -    -                       2  20      632 22   -   -                 117         84  4        -      -
6.0 - 7.9          -    -        -   -   I  so      750  64   1  10      300   9   -   --               I   16     380  20   -   -
8.0   9            4   S0    MI 93   -   - 0               - 7    -1    -3    -        -        --1                 3     -0   --            -   -
1TOAL             8 100    3270 100   2 10    1.166 10  10 100   3.10510O    -   -           -   -  6 100    lJ79IOD   6 100          16860 
Wei&htcd Avag
By Nuber                           6.0                  4.5                  2.0
By Amom                            65                   49                   2.
C Sts of BDne
Pfivtee SWc             10100   15i77 100   5  83   14.238  98 17 100   36.915 100   1 100    1.910 10011100               10017  94    49.712  54
Pablic Secato                       --            17   260   2      -                                                       -    1  6      42.381 45
TOTAL              10100   1S.677 100   6 100   14A98 100  17 IOD   36.915 100   1100    19101 S   0 011100   17 2     I    18 100     92.093 100
a. _____      * m5k
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA - LOAN NO. 2277-IN)
FlH  BAINDO PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ChaQle c of Maitime Loa  Camtted, 1M1 - 1919
(Rp MOOD)
1984                 1985                  1986                   1917                1988                    1989
t   %   AmL % No. *   Amt.                          % No.    %AL%No            Amt% No%   Amt. S No %    AmL 
D. Seao.
RLS                      2   20    2646 21                    . -   .   - .           .   -   -          .   .                 -   -   -   - -'-
of wbich PELNI                        -        -        -   -   -         -           -   -   -        -   -   -   -
Non4RLS                  8   S0   13.031  79   6 I0    14A98 100  17 100   36.915 100   110    1.910100 I       1100   1222 100  11100           92.093 100
of wbichkPELM                      tll -_ .                                               -                    _ _  -_        -      _:      _          -_
TOrAL             10  100   15.677 100   600   14A9S I0   17 100   36.915 100   1 100    1.910100  1110D   12222 I    18 100                9z093 100
B. Natrm ot Proects
New                      3   30    6354  50   2  33    3.760  26   4  24   1769   48   1 100    1S90 100   4  36    5524  45   4  22               5.971   7
.Expndmisk               770    9323  50   4  67   IQ738 74  13  76   19219  52                  -       -   -   7  64    6698 55  14  78         16122 94
TOTAL             10  100   15.677 100   6 300   14A98 100  17 100   36.915 100   I 100    1.910 100  11 100   12.   100  18 100           92.093 100
_~ _d wad* aq" bL
a.  _ _           s                                                                                                                                                                  I 
'a|
I-a



BANK PEMUNAN INDONESU'A
LOAN NO. 2Z77-IND (nMl BAMNDO PROJWI)
APPWABard DbbaumbmtsolLmm4a bwt, 13-1019
(Aemtb Rp b_ts)
_m            134            13S            135           1967             to"              1t9
AUL    N.  AWL          W    AWL      No.  AWL    Me.  AsL         No.    AEL        No.    AmL         N
APPUOVA'.0 .'.'wnm     R.pb
ltqpdulaw.        IadsaM j.es             337   5       947     U     179.7   5O    152.    7L   2         131.6 UL  7&      191.0   143    20.0
Samma                                    %4     IL#   I37   X7    2195   639   2.A            .   2104   142*       6       22    1,1.         MA.
WewgCAPl_ Lam                             30.    7      53.   140    9.   1O   S0M4   16    2.   264                539    2          55.1    31.6
C;d_m4a    Wh am  (A                       4.1     6     LO    8.       6I    4.0    63    6          U      LI       4.3      7.0      2.5       L.
E9Iym4st                                  IA    3U        U      U      U       22    i       Li      U      2i       U        I 
Sabo"                                   131.3  1350  17  228.   29.   2e6    314.0  257.0  5W    413.   17                  S6.   %243.5    674.0
SSEL-                                      L12 .    Z2 n    u lSI  AAm  Z23                                     BM Su  am   Il nLu
TOTALWAM  ANDl NI MIr                    1t5.0  4190    96    512    35.2  452.   3291   S.O  574.7  163    1,557    S4                2.7  1,63l
Iwdn*fApprul(l%3)w1.                       1.4    1.0    1.4   WLO    2.2    1.0    2.        14    4.2    2.0       113       27       14.1      33
Wbolmletlst,gaieaibO1153us16S)           1MI.         1S1.0           117.           W131.          11.             162.6             177.0
APPOVA~LS           a (1. 295. Rt7 p. u ba)
R       _uZmL.q4m [d.ihILe_               37           33            153.6          12.4          130.9            S.1               3
aftsIarl~w"eMarub"Leas                    AlUM                                         i              i                                                                             0~
Sdaeal                                   9t0           93.4          187.6          164.I          1914            539A              "187
Waehk  Capil Lowas                        36.           15.1           59.71          67           18               36.6              315.9
COMMIDag wiFh R4Ss .1                                    to             0                            6.3              L7                 .4
pq4aIty avut                              i              a              AA              t            W U                                  :
Sub5ots                                 1313          1735           2537           247.2         360              93.              1211.L
SsEIAsi                                    Li            u              IL            AL            I2               ALt               A
TOTALLOAMSANDBNVESIM TS                   13N            177.3         26*            259.1         387              96f.6            157
laneof Approvs     a3tU) Ic                LI            1.3            1.S    1.                    2.               7.6               9.1
*4qaea kwh      . (Dow.) Auock                          3.             47.1           (07)          4.               52.?7             30.6
%4sqa_ 1,A low (Dw.r.) Nmber                                    2is             3            419           44.4               30                23.6
Cwep. Asn   1er. hAppr b frm 13
I C1nanta 130 RqhhsId                                  28S            37.            23.4          3*               47.4             4k5
b. I la sabsrsld                                                23          137.5          161.6           6                 40.7              27.
SBURSEMETS
. Io cont RCpits                       2316           21J82          17J.4         2W337          482A4            4                 ,44
bl n conu 130 R.l                       2536          196            i5s5           1o"3          3193              32M?             JI783
Is "No* rfas to sumber dRf OS
hb Eadudiug pd_.sm=
It Bo4 Go Conant 1160 pfis                                                                                                                                                               I
14 Coo"" are   y.



ANNEX 14
- 61-                                   Page I
INDONESLA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1984-1989
(Rp bi)
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash on hand and due from banks        20.6     13.1       9.9     27.5      38.6     46.3
Due from Bank Indonesia                26.0     19.7      36.6     29.7     25.9      78.0
Current maturides of portfolio        197.2    264.1    347.0    492.3    756.4   1,210.3
Marketable securities                   7.5     46.4    277.3    161.8      99.1    378.3
Short-term raw cotton loans               -        -        -
Accrued interest on loans              54.5     73.0      61.6     31.5      27.6     16.9
Provisions for losses on
interest                          (26.4)   (48.8)   (46.8)    (17.4)    (15.4)     (8.0)
Other curent assets                     7.8    193.2      68.7     52.1      66.4    116.9
Total Cumrent Assets               287.2    560.7    754.3    777.5    998.6   1,838.7
LOAN PORTFOLIO
Worldng Capital Loans
Industry                              186.9    215.6    264.8    479.2    820.9   1,277.5
Maritime                               13.1     12.8      10.9     16.4      19.3     18.2
Subtotal                           200.0    228A     275.7    495.6    840.2   1,295.7
Invesunent Loans
Industry                              610.2    563.2    624.3    721.8   1,062.1   1,684.9
Syndication                            23.5     23.6     41.0      26.7     22.6      34.7
Maritime                              101.3    107.0      98.9    110.3    136.8    205.6
Subtotal                           735.0    693.8    764.2    8S8.8   1,221.5   1,925.2
Cofinwtcing with RDBs                        11.9       9.1      6.2      4A        6A       5.6
Government Loans                              0.3        -         -
Total Loan Portfolio               947.2    931.3  1,046.1   1.358.8  2,068.1   3,226.5
Less provisions for losses                   16.4      11.1     18.2     52.9      87.1    100.0
Less cunrent maturitdes                     197.1    264.1    347.0    492.3    756.4   1,210.3
Loss portion of other banks and
financial institutions                    20.3     21.1      17.7     16.7       9.9      8.6
Net Loan Portfolio                 713.4    635.0    663.2    796.9   1,214.7   1,907.6
Equity Investment                            45.2      51.8     53.1     56.8      59.1     31.7
Less provisions for losses                 3.5      3.6       8.8      9.8       9A         -
Net Equity Portfolio                41.7     48.2     443       47.0     49.7      31.7
Fixed Assets                                  4.2       5.1      6.7     13.0       9.8     24.3
Deferred Charges                              03       02       22.7     60.7      56.9     79.1
TOTAL ASSETS                     1,046.8   1,249.2  1,491.2  1,695.1   2,329.7  3,881.4



- 62 -                                   ANNEX 14
Page 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
FFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Summarized Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1984-1989
page 2
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     1989
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Cash in banks with credit
balance
Demand deposits                            15.4     28.2      46.9     48.2      52.4    136.2
Time depositsb                             85.1    134.5    187.5    281.1    429.2   1,092.0
Short-term bonowings for
raw cotton
Short-tenm borrowings ftom
Bank Indonesia                            -              -             -
Account payable and accrued exp.           33.5     48.2      49.8     83.1      99.1    179.8
Customers' deposits on LC                   0.7      1.P       5.8      6.9       9.4     11.1
Income tax payable                          0.4      0.4       4.6     11.1       4.2      16.9
Current maturities of long-term
loans payable                         100.3    103.6    139.1    140.0    184.1    240.1
Due to Managed Fund                         2.0      4.2        -       2.v         -      0.7
Note payable                                                    -         -      38.5    124.8
Total Current Liabilides           237.4    320.9    433.7    572.4    816.9   1,801.6
LONG TERM LIABILTIES
Special and time deposits                 142.7    152.9    126.8    107.0       88.5     55.7
Govermnent loans                            0.6      0.7      13.2     13.5      16.0     15.4
Bank Indonesia loans                      493.4    535.6    593.3    632.9    896.8   1,179.2
State bank loans                           11.8     10.0      9.2       7.0       4.6      2.7
IDAJIBRD/ADB/KFW loans                     93.2    117.1    109.4    127.1    219.1    412.1
Bonds payable (net)                        24.4     24.5      74.7     74.9    150.0    300.0
Total Long-Term Liabilities        766.1    840.9    926.6    962.4   1,375.0   1,965.1
Less current maturities                   100.3    103.6    139.1    140.0    184.1    240.1
Net Long-Term Liabilities          665.8    737.3    787.5    822.4   1,190.9   1,725.0
EQUlTY
Paid-up capital                           127.6    177.2    249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1
Retained eanings                           16.0     13.8      20.9     51.2      72.8    105.7
Total Equity                       143.6    191.0    270.0    300.3    321.9    354.8
TOTAL LIABILTIES AND
EQUrrY                            1,046.8   1,249.2   1,491.2   1,695.1   2,329.7   3,881.4
Managed Funds'
Raw cotton loans                           10.5     11.1       8.0      5.6       5.4       53
Ptoject aid                               143.9    129.3     91.7    153.4    155.2    174.9
Foreign exchange loans
Local currency loans
Other assets                                 -    145.6    156.1    207.6    197.3    190.6
Total Managed Fund                 154.4    286.0    255.8    366.6    367.9    370.8
a.  mWd   o etf of BDk adoesl ad Bank Exhponpm ldomata.
b. hctuing dposits born civil svmas' pbion hfda



- 63 -                                  ANNEX 15
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
IFTH BAPINDO PROJECF
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ending December 31, 1984-1989
(Rp billion)
1984     1985     1986      1987      1988     1989
Income
Interest on term and workdng
capital loan                           117.8    168.8    104.8    163.7    258.4    412.7
Income from raw cotton loans
Other uncome                                   6.7     12.1      71.8     80.5      45.6      76.4
Total Income                        124.5    180.9    176.6    244.2    304.0    489.1
Expenscs
Interest on tern debt                      39.9     86.4      84.2    107.4    151.7    264.6
Other interest/financial expenses          27.3      0.7      7.0       SA        6.6     22.4
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                                13.7     14.9     18.1      25.2     29.1      41.1
Admiistrazive and general expenses          5.6      6.0      6.2       8.6      10.6     16.7
Total Expenses                      86.5    108.0    115.5    146.6    198.0    344.8
Profit before provision and tax               38.0     72.9      61.1     97.6    106.0    144.3
Provision for losses on loans                 29.0     70.1     453       42.4      40.1     45.8
Profit before tax                              9.0      2.8      15.8     55.2      65.9     98.5
Income tax                                     3A       1.5       8.0     20.1      233      40.0
Net profit                                     5.6      13        7.8     35.1      42.6     58.5
| Ratos
As percentage of average total assets
Gross income                            13.1     15.8     12.9      15.5      15.2     15.7
Fmaancial expenses                      7.0       7.7      6.7       7.2       7.9      9.2
Administrative and personnel            2.1       1.8      1.8       2.1       2.0      1.9
Provisions                              3.0       6.1      33        2.7       2.0      1.5
Profit before tax                        1.0      0.2      1.1       3.5       33       3.1
Net profit (after tax)                  0.6       0.1      0.7       2.2       2.1      1.9
Other ratios
Net profit as % of average net worth        4.5      0.8      4.6      12.3      10.7     16.0
Income from term loan as %?o of average
term loamo                              12.4     18.0     24.5      31A       15.0     16.8
Cost of t18m debt as 9 of avem
term debt                               6.1      10.8      9S5      11.4      13.0     1S.8
Interest spread                             63       9.1       6.9     13.5      14.5     1S.2
L ~~Gross qread (gross hncme - fbmanial
p             c~~~~~xpcnse)                           33.9     37.3     47.1      94.5    112.2    178.7



- 64 -
ANNEX 16
INDONESA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
FI;TH BAPINDO PROJECT
Flnadal Indcators and Ratos, 1984-1989
(Rp billion)
Year Ending December 31                         1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989
Profitability Indicators
Net Profit as % of Average Net Worth             4.5       0.7       3A       123        13.7      17.3
Net Profit as % of Average Total Assets          0.6       0.1       0.7       2.2        2.1       1.9
Operational Idicator
Gross Income as % of Averge Total
Assets                                       13.1      15.8      12.9      15.5      15.2       15.7
Adminstave Expnses as % of
Average Total Assets                          2.0       0.5       13        1.6       1A         1.9
Fiacial Expenses as % of Avenge
Total Assets                                  7.0       7.7       6.7       7.2       7.9       92
Year's Provisions frm Income as 96 of
End-Year Loan & Invesunmt Portfolio           2.9       7A        4.3       3.1       1.9        1A
Income from Term Loans as % of
Average Tenn Debt                            14.3      17.2       9.9      13.5      153       14.9
Average Number of Professional Staff             575       572       597       620       539       560
Administve Expenses per
Professional Staff (US$000r                  32.9      23A       21.1      24.6      30.3      41.3
Volume of Approvals per
Profesdonal Staff (US$000)t                 334.0    480.2    395A        562.1   1,622.3   1,135.5
Debt Service Coverage                            12        1.7       12         IA        13        1.9
Finanial Strcture Indicators
Cuxrent Ratiob                                   12        1.7       1.8        1A        1.2       1.0
Long-Term DebtEquity ratio                       4.2       2.9       2.4       2A        3.7        4.9
Reserves and Provisions as V. of
Total Portfolio Ounding                       45        6.7       6.5       53        5.0       33
a. Rupidu cmmit Os       US$piab indp   r bth yn.
b. cOmwa  to be w"agi a I'll  .I LIS u_aw Lm W2.fDID (19S).
c.  mod    debWtia lb a. rtadS  h   I undw Low 1703-US (I_  to t undw Loa= 22wI- (IO.



-65-                                       ANNEX 17
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Indicators of Portfolio Performance, 1984-I8
(Rp billion)
Year Ending December 31                          1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989
Basic Data
Total Loan Portfolio                            947.2    931.3   1,046.1    L358.8   2,090.7   3..69.9
Loans In Repayment Stage                        813.1     882.7   1,001.2   1,237.2   1,616.0    ,553.3
Loans Affected by Arrears'                      296.0    516.9      502.6     323.5      396.7     317.8
Arrears of Principal and Interest                61.9     127.5      146.1     108.1     1083       8131
Provision Against Lossesb                        16.4      11.1      18.2       52.9      87.1     100.0
Reserves and provisionsb                         32.4      24.9      39.1      104.1     159.9     255.2
Rescheduling/ConversionsJWrite-offs
Loans Rescheduled During Year                    303       33.2      73.5      126.0     167.8     111.8
Loans Converted into Equityc                      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Write-offs (Principal and Interest)              17.7      50.1      58.4       45.8       7.6      14.5
Totald                                    48.0      833       131.9     171.8      86.0      182.3
Losses and High-Risk Loans                      365.7     580.8     559.1      400.9     409.3     431.0
Ratios
Arrears as % of Loans in Repayment Stagc          7.6      14.4       14.6       8.7       6.7       3.1
Loans Affected by Arrears as % of Total
Loan Portfolio                                31.2      55.5      48.1      23.8       19.0       9.7
Loans Affected by Arrears as % of Loans
Repaynent Stage                               36.4      58.6      50.2      26.1      24.5       12.4
Losses and High-Risk Loans as % of
Loans in Repayment Stage                     47.6       59.2      57.9      333       25.4       18.7
Collections as % of Total Billings               56.0      413       51.8       67.8      73.1      83.2
Reserves and Provisions as % of Total
Loan Portfolio                                 3A        2.6       3.7       7.7       7.6        7.8
Reserves and Provisions as % of Loans
Affected by Arrears                           10.9       4.8       7.7      32.2      40.3       803
a. An,, of mwre thm 3 monzh dwhtion.
bh EKcluding proin'a made for equity invogtment.
c. Sqe  da e nat -dlae  (pat included in -Lm RPoaced").
d. Toutl doe not Inchd Lamn Canvtd Into qu  m daun ir  vaulb
a  The Sof Lon Affected by Awr. ra edul r. Cnioc,. and Wuts.
L  Not inchdi ICWIKKKP, nsurd by P1 Askdludo.



-66-                             ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Analysis of Term Portfolio in Arrears
(Rp million)
Total Tern Portfolio
1984       1985       1986       1987       1988        1989
Portfolio status
Total loans outstanding  947,246    931,297   1,046,072   1,358,813  2,090,748   3,269,906
Deduct
Outstanding loans in
grace period         134,100     48,596     44,900    121,599    474,741    716,639
Loans in repayment
stage            813.146    882.701   1.001.172   1.237.214   1.616,007   2.553.267
Outstanding amount of loans
affected by arrears    295,960    516,911    502,641    323,483    396,657    317,772
Arrears
- Principal            40,856     54,718      52,814     42,282     51,433     58,193
- Inerest              33,248     76,127     96,352      67,262     65,474     33,690
Total Amears        74.104    130.845    149.166    109.544    116.907      91.883
Loans affected by arrears
as percentage of total
loans outstanding       31.2       55.5       48.1       23.8        19.0        9.7
Total arrears as percentage
of total loans outstanding   7.8   14.0       14.3        8.1        5.6         2.8
Total arrears of principal
as percentage of total
loans outstanding in
repayment stage          5.0        6.2        5.3        3.4        3.2         2.3
Collection rate (%)      56.0       41.3        51.8       67.8       73.1       83.2
Reschedulint and writeoffs
Loans rescheduled during
tie year              30,287     33,163     73,477    126,034     78.439    167,823
Loans written off during
the year              17,707     50,137     58,400     45,764      7,642      14,463



ANNEX 18
67 -                          Page 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Analysis of Term Portfolio in Arrears
(Rp milion)
Total Term Loans
Outstand-
Aging of Loan Arrears            N/r        %    ing loans      %      Arrears       %
As of Dec. 31. 1989
- 4 - 6 months                 75      18.8    105,582      33.7     23,418     25.5
- 7 - 12 monft                124      31.2      89,346     28.1     25,056     27.3
- 13 - 24 months              135      33.9      58,820     18.5     28,650     31.2
- Over 24 months               64      16.1      64,025     20.1     14,760      16.1
TOTAL                   398      100.0    317.772    100.0      91.883    100.0
As of Dec. 31. 1988
- 4 - 6 months                110      29.8      91,049     23.0     22,858      19.6
- 7 - 12 months               133      36.0    149,886      37.8     39,391     33.7
= 13 - 24 months              70       19.0      68,801     17.3     29,126     24.9
- Over 24 months              56       15.2      86,922     22.4     25,532     21.8
TOTAL                   369      100.0    396.657    100.0    116,907    100
As of Dec. 31, 1987
- 4 - 6 months                95       27.5      51,727     16.0     23,246     20.8
- 7 - 12 months               125      36.2    104,066      32.2     28,892     25.9
- 13 - 24 months              73       21.2      58,822     18.2     38,487     34.5
- Over 24 months               52      15.1    108,869      33.7     20,919      18.8
TOTAL                   345      100.0    323.483    100.0    111.544    100.0



ANNEX 18
- 68                             Page 3
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Analysis of Termn Portfolio In Arrears
(Rp miLUion)
Total Term Loans
Outstand-
Aging of Loan Aeros             N/r         %    ing loans      %      Arrears       %
As of Dec. 31. 1986
- 4 - 6 months                80       21.2    106,724      21.2     32,443     21.7
- 7 - 12 months               116      30.8    103,924      20.7     43,771     29.3
- 13 - 24 months              112      29.7    142,030      28.3     49,121     32.9
- Over 24 months              69       18.3    149,963      29.8     23,831      15.1
TOTAL                   377      100.0    502.641    100.0    149.166    100.0
As of Dec. 31. 1985
- 4 - 6 months                52       14.9    118,809      23.0     35,115     26.8
- 7 - 12 months                84      24.1    149,819      29.0     42,191     32.2
- 13 - 24 months              152      43.7    124,958      24.2     37,524     28.7
- Over 24 months              60       17.2    123,325      23.9     16,014      12.2
TOTAL                   348      100.0    516.911    100.0    130.844    100.0
As of Dec. 31. 1984
- 4 - 6 months                154      19.1      68,152     23.0     18,455     24.9
- 7 - 12 months              306       37.9      75,216     25.4     24,483     33.0
- 13 - 24 months             258       31.9    117,336      40.1     24,742     33.4
- Over 24 months              90       11.1      35,257     11.9      6,425       8.7
TOTAL                   808      100.0    295.960    100.0      74,104    100.0



-69 -                             ANNEX 19
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Bapindo's Lending Interest Rates and Other Charges
as of April 30, 190
(Annual rates in %)
INTEREST ON LOANS                                                          RATE
Domestic Currency Loans
-   Investnent Loans                                                      17 - 18
-   Working Capital Loans                                               17.5 - 19
-   Export Credit                                                       17.5 - 19
Small Scale
-   Investment Loans                                                           17
-   Wodring Capital Loans                                                      19
Foreign Currency Loans               Borowing Rate                   Lending Rate
IBRD Loan No. 2277-lND                7.75% - 10.93%                    16.5 - 19
IBRD Loan No. 3040-IND                          12.46                   16.5 - 19
IBRD Loan No. 3041-IND                          12.46                   16.5 - 19
ADB Loan No. 834-IND                       1150 - 13                    165 - 19
NIB Loan No. PIL 12/87                     11.15 - 13                   16.5 - 19
EBJ Loan I                                      11.25                   16.5 - 19
EBJ Loan II                                     11.37                   165 - 19
Commitment Charges (on long & medium term loans)
On investment loans                               05
On working capital loans                          05
Penaltv Charges
On investment loans                              19.0
On working capital loans                         19.0



INDONESI&
BANK PEMAGUNAN INDONESIA LOAN NO. 2277-IND
FIFWH BAPlNDO PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLEIMON REPORT
Domestk Resource MoIoton, 1984 - 1989
(Rp millon)
InEREST RATE
TERM                        (% p.,)
RESOURCE                         1984        1985        1986         1987        1988         1989  (YEARS) MATURrrY          1984 - 1989
LON TERM
-  BANK INDONESIA               505,867.9   546,284.9   593,2895    632,58.8   096,791A    1.179,2385       3 - 15      3 - 15          3 - 12
-  OTIHER STATE BANKS            11,851.6    10,037.1     9288.5       6,986.7     4,607.5       708.2      3 - 15      3 - 15           13.50
- GOVERNMENT
(SPECIAL DEPOSIT)            142,753A    152,930.0   126,810.0   106,990.0    88,480.0      55,740.0    3 - 15       3 - 15          7 - 8
-  BOND                          25,000.0    25,000.0    75,000.0    75,000.0   150,000.0    300,000.0          5           5    16.125-18.750
SHORT TERM
-  BANK INDONESIA                      -                        -           -                        -          -            -              -
-  aOTER STATE BANKS                   -            -                                                -          -            -              -
-  DEMAND DEPOS1T                15,402.6    28,202.9    46,846.6    48,1772      52,447.0    136.222.2         1           1         5 - 12.5
-  TIME DEPOSIr                  85,121.0   134,504.8   187,5329    281,162.0   429,237.0   1.091,976.2      1 - 2       1 - 2         16 - 19



-71-                              ANNEX 21
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
LOAN NO. 2277 - IND
(FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REIPORT
Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization, 1974-1990
(USD million)
Interest       Date
Tenn       Rate           Fully
Loan     Year    Source  Curency  Amount  (Years)   (% p.a.)           Disbursed
310     1972       IDA      USD       10.0    39.5          8.0     NOV 1977
318     1972       IDA      USD       7.0     395          7.3      FEB 1980
1054     1974     IBRD      USD       50.0     14.5          8.0      JAN 1979
KFW      1976       KFP       DM       11.0     30.0          2.0     JUN 1983
1437     1977     IBRD      USD       40.0      18.0         82       DEC 1981
ADB      1977      ADB       USD       30.0     17.0          8.3     DEC 1982
1703     1979     IBRD      USD       50.0      18.0         7.9      SEP 1984
2277     1983      EBRD      USD      143.4     18.0      Fl.rate     DEC 1989
834.0    1987       ADB      USD       60.0     15.0       Fl.rate    JAN 1991'
PIL 12/87     1987      NEB      USD       25.0     15.0       F1.rate    MAR 1990
EBJ I    1988        EBJ    YEN        11.8      17.0      Fl.rate     FEB 1989
EBJ II    1989        EBJ    YEN        39.9     15.0       Fl.rate     APR 1990
3040     1989     IBRD       USD      29.5      15.0      Fl.rate     JUN 1994
3041     1989      ADB       USD       10.0     15.0       Fl.rate    JUN 1995^
981     1989      ADB       USD      85.0      15.0      Fl.rate     FEB 1994
a. Esimed



- 72-                                  ANNEX 22
Page 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 22771IND)
PROJECTED LENDING AND EQUITY INVESTMENT OPERATIONS
I990 - 1994
(Rp biflion)
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
Acual
APPROVAL
kvestmatt Loans                         1,581.9   1,010.0   1,0605   1,166.6   1,341.5   1,542.8
Worldng Cap Loans                        559.1    500.0    550.0    632.5    727.3    836.4
Small Scale Losns                         81.7    400.0    440.0    528.0    607.2    698.3
Equity Investment                                  25.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Approval                      2,7   1,935.0  2,050.5   2,327.0  2,676.1   3,077.5
COMbl
Investment Loans                        1,278.6  1,010.0   1,060.5   1,166.6   1,341.5   1,542.8
Working Cap Loms                         436.5    500.0    550.0    632.5    727.3    836.4
Small Scale Loans                         81.1    400.0    440.0    528.0    607.2    698.3
Equity Investment                                  25.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Cmmitment                      1,796.2  1,935.0  2,050.5   2,327.0  2,676.1   3,077.5
DISBURSEMENT
Invesnt Loans                            806.5    707.0    848.4    933.2   1,207.4   1,388.5
Working Cap Loans                        571.6    511.8    495.0    569.2    654.6    752.8
Small Scale Lons                          65.1    280.0    308.0    422.4    485.8    628.5
Equity Investment                          0.8     20.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Disbursement                   1,444.0  1,518.8   1,651A   1,924.9  2,347.7  2,769.7
COLLECION
New Loans
Investment Loans                                   85.7    173.7    266.4    391.6    490.0
Working Cap Loans                                  97.2    198.7    298.1    409.8    537.8
Small Scale Loans                                  11.1      60.3    120.1    200.8    295.5
Existing Loans                            374.1    336.5    507.3    506.0    465.5    405.7
Equity Investment                           3.8       0.5      0.0       0.5      0.0       0.5
Total Colleaion                       377.9    531.0    940.0   1,191.2   1,467.8   1,729.6



73                                   ANNEX 22
Page 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECrED INCOME STATEMENT
1989 - 1994
(Rp billion)
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
Actual
INCOME
From Loans: Interest                         381.1    552.9    684.8    788.5    904.8   1,043.4
Fees                             31.6      33.6      56.5     67.5      80.3     93.5
Others:     Temporary Investmnet              44.3     44.9      66.3     94.2    120.6    141.5
Interbank Placings                         18.1      12.6     12.8      13.5     14.8
Oihers                            11.0     12.4      13.9     15.7      17.6     19.8
ToWal Income                           468.0   661.9    834.2    978.7   1,136.8   1313.0
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses                            264.6    485.5    624.0    754.5    852.5    989.2
Deposits                                  137.7    225.1    246.8    283.6    336.8    430.9
Bank Indonesia                             64.9    104.3    130.1    144.4    137.0    118.6
Direct Overseas Loans                               23.4     45.5      56.7     67.8      73.8
Two-Step Overseas Loans                    19.7     50.9      69.1     86.5    102.2    117.6
Bonds                                     40.4      81.0    131.3    179A       208.0    248.0
Others                                      1.9      0.9       1.3      1.0      0.7       0.4
General and Adm. Expenses                     59.1     70.9      81.6     93.8    107.9    124.0
Total Expenses                        323.7    556.5    705.6    8483       960.3   1,113.2
Prfit before Provision for Losses            144.3    105.5    128.6    130.4    176.5    199.8
Provision for Losses                          45.8     40.1      56.2     54.1      62.0     71.4
Profit before Tax                             98.5     65.3      72.4     76.3    114.5    128.4
Corporate Income Tax                          40.0     22.9      25.3     26.7      40.1     45.0
Profit after Tax                              58.5     42.5      47.1     49.6      74.4     83.5



ANNEX 22
- 74-                                  Page 3
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-IND)
PROJECTED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
1989- 1994
(Rp bilion)
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
SOURCES
Borrowings:
Donmstic Sources:                                 1,062.4    714.5    868.7   1,008.6   1,251.3
Bank Indonesia                                  5873     249.5    199.6    154.7       60.0
Net Iacrese(Decrease) in Deposits               1633     165.1    369.1    553.9    891.3
Bonds                                           300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0
Others                                           11.8      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Dict Overseas Loans                                270.0    243.8    210.0    180.0    180.0
Two-Step Loans                                     150.0    195.0    210.0    225.0    240.0
Collections                                         531.0    940.0   1,191.2   1,467.8   1,729.6
Fixed Assets Sold                                     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Fresh Capital                                         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Cash Generaed from Operation:                        1073     133.3    137.6    184.1    207.6
69.4it before Tax                                   653      72.4      76.3    114.5    128.4
Add: Non-Cash Charges                               41.9     60.9      61.3      69.6     79.2
Total Sources (A)                             2,120.6   2,226.6   2,617.4   3,065.5   3,608.5
USES
Disbusement                                        1,518.8   1,651.4   1,924.9   2,347.7   2,769.7
Loan Repayment:                                     514.1    324.0    425.8   4,500.2   5,533.2
Bank Idonaesia                                     491.5    197.0    228.2    261.2    288.9
Two-Stop Loans                                      22.6     53.7      93.1    109.4    127.5
Direct Overseas Loans                                0.0     70.1    101A       126.5    113.8
Othae                                                0.0      3.1       3.1       3.1      3.1
Bonds Due                                             0.0       0.0      50.0      0.0    100.0
Net ncrease/ecrease) in lnbank Placings             (96.4)      9.6      10.6     11.7      12.8
Increa  in Fixed Assets                              51.8      30.0      15.0     10.0      10.0
Net Inczease(DErease) in other Componens of
Working Cap. (excl. cash & due from banks)         121.0    145.6    132.8    111.8       97.8
Corpoate Income Tax                                  22.9      25.3      26.7     40.1      45.0
Profit Distnbudon                                    35.1      25.5     28.2      29.8      44.7
Totd Uses (B)                                 2,167.3  2,211.4   2,613.9   3,051.2   3,613.2
Changes in Cash Balance (A-B)                       (46.7)     15.2       3.5     14.3    (4.7)
Beginning Balance                                    124.3     77.6     92.3    110.6       88.0
Ending Balance                                       77.6      92.8     96.3    110.6    105.9



- 75-                                 AINN    22
Page 4
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277.IND)
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
1989.- 94
(Rp bilion)
1988     1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
Actual   Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets                  1.014.0   1,854.1   1,977.2   2S539.2  3,07S.9  3,567.1   4,090.9
Cash and Due fwm Banks           64.6    124.3     77.6      92.8     96.3    110.6    105.9
Intrbank Placings               42.2    192.7      96.4    106.0    116.6    128.2    141.1
Temp. Investment (mncL sinkdng
fund)                        122.4    277.9    321.4    482.1    626.7    752.1    864.9
Interest Receivables             27.5     17.0     36.7      37.1     42.8     49.3      56.8
Less: Reserve for Losses       (15.4)    (8.1)    (8.4)    (8.8)    (9.2)    (9.72)    (10.2)
Current Maturities of Loan Port.    756.4   1,210.3   1,431.6   1,803.7  2,171.1   2,498.7   2,886.8
Others                           16.3     40.0     22.0      26.4     32.7     38.0      45.6
Loan Portfolio & Equity Invesmnent   1,287.0   1,982.6  2,709.3   2,992.8   3,305.4   3,796.2   4,377.4
Loan Portfolio                2,080.8   3,261.6   4,229.5   4,940.9  5,675.1   6,505.0  7,S45.7
Less: Reserve for Losses       (87.1)   (100.0)   (1393)   (1943)   (247.4)   (2583)   (328.6)
Current Maturities      (756.4)  (1,2103)  (1,431.6)  (1,803.7) (2,171.1)  (2,498.7)  (2,886.8)
Equity Investment               59.1      41.1     60.6      60.1     60.1     60.1      59.6
LAS: Reserve for Losses         (9.4)    (9.4)    (9.9)    (10.7)    (113)    (11.9)    (12.5)
Fixed Assets-Net                    28.7     44.7     94.7    120.0    127.8    130.1    132.3
TOTAL ASSETS               2,329.7   3,881.4  4,781.2   5,561.9   6,509.1   7,493.5   8,600.6
LIABILITES AND EQUlTY
Current Liabilities              905.3   1,872.7   1,973.9   2,279.4  2,670.6   4,395.5   4,3513
Demand and Time Deposits       570.1   1,424.2   1,587.5   1,752.6  2,121.5   2,675.6   3,566.8
Current Maturities of Long-Term
Debt                         184.1    240.1    253.9    374.4    373.7    519.5    597.0
Other Current Liabilides        151.1    208.4    132.5    152.4    1753      201.6    231.8
Long-Term Debt                  1,102.5   1,653.9  2,445.1   2,988.8   3,433.4   3,647.2   3,716.4
Direct Overseas Loans                     98.6    368.6    542.3    650.9    704.5    770.7
Bonds                           150.0    300.0    600.0    900.0   1,150.0   1,450.0   1,650.0
Two-Step Loans                  219.2    313.5    440.9    582.1    699.0    814.6    927.1
Bank Indonesia                 896.8   1,179.2   1,275.0   1,327.4   1,298.9   1,192.3    963.5
Odters                           20.6      2.7     14.5      11.4      83       5.2       2.1
Less: Current Maturides       (184.1)  (240.1)   (253.9)   (374.4)   (373.7)   (519.5)   (597.0j
Equity                           321.9    354.8    362.2    383.7    405.1    449.8    488.6
Paid-Up Capital                249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1    249.1
Retained Eanings                72.8    105.7    113.1    134.6    156.0    200.7    239.5
TOTAL LIABILITES
AND EQUrTY              2,329.7   3,861.4  4,781.2   5,651.1  6,509.1   7,493.5   8,600.6



ANNEX 22
- 76 -                                     Page 5
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (LOAN 2277-lND)
FINANCIAL RATIO ANALYSIS ON U1NANCLAL PROJECTION
(Rp billion)
1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
Actual
PROFITABILITY RATIOS
Overall Profitability:
Retun on Assets                              1.9%      1.0%      0.9%      0.8%       1.1%      1.0%
Retum on Equity                             17.3%     11.8%     12.6%      12.6%     17.4%     17.8%
Yield on Temporary Investment               22.1%     15.0%     16.5%     17.0%      17.5%     17.5%
Yield on Earning Assets                     14.9%     14.7%     15.6%      15.7%     15.9%     16.0%
Yield to Break Even                         11.6%     13.6%     14.4%      14.7%     14.4%     14.6%
Spread                                       3.2%      1.1%      1.2%       1.0%      1.5%      1A%
Landing Profitability:
Income from Loans/Avg Net Loans             15.9%     16.1%     16.7%      16.7%     16.8%     16.8%
Interest Expense/Avg Net Loans              10.2%     13.3%     14.0%      14.7%     14.5%     14.6%
Gen & Adm Expenses/Avg Net Loans             0.3%      03%       03%       03%        03%       03%
Prov. for Loan Losses/Avg Net Loans          1.8%      1.1%      13%        1.1%      1.1%      1.1%
Gross Interest Margin                        5.7%      2.8%      2.6%      2.0%       2.3%      2.2%
Net Interest Margin                          3.7%      1.4%      1.1%      0.6%       0.9%      0.8%
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Current Ratio                                    1.0       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.1       0.9
Net Loans & Equity InvesenVTotal Assets    825%         87.2%     85.4%     84.7%     84.5%      85.0%
Net Loans & Equity InvestmtdTrotal Long-
Term Debt                                  193.6%    170.5%    161.4%    160.5%    173.7%    196.7%
Net Loans & Equity InvestmentlTotal Long-
Term Debt & Equity                         159.49%   148.5%    143.1%    143.5%    154.6%    173.9%
Total Deposit/Total Assets                    24.6%     24.1%     24.5%     25.5%     26.6%      27.8%
Equity/rotal Assets                           9.1%       7.6%      6.8%      6.2%      6.0%       5.7%
Total Debt/Equity                                9.9      12.2      13.7      15.1      15.7       16.6
Total Long-Term Debt/Equity                     4.7        6.8       7.8       8.5       8.1        7.6
Growth Rate of Total Assea                   66.6%      23.2%     18.2%     15.2%     15.1%      14.8%
Growth Rate of Net Loans & Eq. Invest         56.0%     29.4%     15.7%     14.1%     14.8%      15.3%
INCOME & EXPENSE RATIOS
Total Income/Average Total Assi               15.1%     15.3%     16.0%     16.1%      16.2%     16.3%
Interest Income/Total Income                 97.6%      95.4%     96.8%     97.1%     97.3%      97.4%
Interest Expense/Interest Income             57.9%      76.9%     77.3%     79.4%     77.1%      77.4%
Interest Expense/Total  come                 56.5%      73.3%     74.8%     77.1%     75.0%      75.3%
Interest Expense/Avg Bonowed Funds            10.2%     12.8%     13.3%     13.7%     13.4%      13.4%
Provision for Losses/rotal Income             9.8%       6.1%      6.7%      5.5%      5.5%       5A%
Gen & Adm Expensesfrotal Incwom               12.6%     10.7%      9.8%      9.6%      9.5%       9A%
Gen & Adm Expenss/Avg Total Assets             1.9%      1.6%      1.6%      1.5%       1.5%      1.5%
Gen & Ahn Expenses/Avg Net Loans &
Equity Investment                            2.2%      1.9%      1.8%       1.8%      1.8%      1.8%
Debt Service Coveage                            1.2        1.1       1.8       1.7       1.8        1.8
Growth of Total Income                                  41.4%     26.0%     17.3%      16.2%     15.5%
Growth of Interest Expenas                              83.5%     28.5%     20.9%      13.0%     16.0%
Growth of eOn & Adm Expenses                            20.09%o    15.0%    15.0%     15.0%      15.0%
Growth of Ptofit After Tax                             -27.4%     10.8%      5.4%     50.1%      12.2%



- 77 -
ANNEX 23
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
LOAN NO. 2277 - IND
(FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GOI'S TA COMPONENT
Name of                               Naum  of           ImplemntIng
j     ~T WStudy                              Consultant            Asency
Export Quality Studies         Food & Drug Admin.(USA)         MOT
(Sea-Products)
Post Development Export
Flnancing                Mr. Dlckhoff (UK)              el
Export Estate Pre-             Shannon Free Airport            MOT
feasibility Study        Dev. Co. (Ireland)
Post-Shipment Export           Mr. Dennis Hake (UK)            MOF
Credit Insurance
Pre-Shipment Export            Mr. K.C. Shin (Korea)           MOF
Finance Guarantee
Export Estate Feas-            Shannon Free Airport            MOT
Ibillty Study            Dev. Co.  (Ireland)
Bankers Training Program        IDA (Ireland)                  MOF/LPPI
Development Potential of       Cowiconsult (Denmark)           MOT
Gakung Estate
BKPM: Private Sector            IMG Consultants                BKPM
Development Study        (Australia)
PTKS Steel (Krakatau)          Arthur D. Little (USA)          MOI
Study
Pre-Shipment Export            Mr. Kul-Wang Rha (Korea)       1B
Textile Industry Study         Gherzl (Swltzerland)            MOI
Wood Processing Industry       Atlanta Consultants             MOi
Study                    (Germany)
Steel Sector Strategy          British Steel Co. (UK)          MOI
Study
Engineerlng Subsector          IMG (Australia)                 MOI
Study
Mol Advisory Consultancy       Mr. Hollinger (USA)             MOI
Services
BPS Flow of funds ProJ.        Mr. R.R. Geehan (USA)           BPS



