Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4286-1ND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) V
April 13, 1983
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This doctimen)t has a restricted di.stribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
theiT official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =  Rupiah (Rp) 700 /1
Rp 1           =  US$0.0014
Rp 1 million  =  US$L,428
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
BAPINDO's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB        =  Asian Development Bank
ASKRINDO   =  PT Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (Credit Insurance Company of
Indonesia)
BAPINDO    =  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BI         =  Bank Indonesia
BKPM       =  Badan Koordinasi Penanaman Modal (Investment Coordinating
Board)
IDFC       =  Indonesian Development Finance Company
KELAYAKAiN  =  Feasibility-based Credit Program
KfW        =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KIB         =  Kredit Investasi Besar (Large Investment Credit Program)
KIK        =  Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit Program)
K1MKP       =  Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (Small Permanent Working Capital
Credit Program)
MOF         =  Ministry of Finance
MOI        =  Ministry of Industry
MOT         =  Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives
PDFCI      =  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
RDB        =  Regional Development Bank
/1  This staff appraisal report is based on an exchange rate of Rp 700 to
the US dollar.  On March 30, 19835 after negotiations for the proposed
loan were completed the Government announced the devaluation of the
Rupiah from 700 to 970 per dollar. While it is too early at this stage
to completely assess all the effects of this decision, an initial
evaluation of the impact of this decision on the project shows that its
feasibility will not be adversely affected.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA V (BAPINDO)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i-il
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND  .1.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
The Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Financial Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
Bank's Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors  . . .      8
II.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
Institutional Perspectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
Action Program 1983/84 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
Organization  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Staffing           ... ..14
Training   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Corporate Planning         ...                   . .16
Management Information System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
Operating Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
Procedures and Standards       ... . .17
Technical Assistance Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . .     18
III.  BAPINDO-S OPERATIONS ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  19
Summary and Overview of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
Characteristics of Industrial Loans  . . . . . . . . . . .     22
Managed  Funds    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Equity Investments         ...                   . .23
Regional Development Banks       ... . .                       24
Research and Project Promotion . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
Financial Position and Performance . . . . . . . . . . . .     25
Quality of Portfolio and Arrears Situation . . . . . . . .     27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia
in August 1982. Mission members were Rogelio G. David (Mission Leader),
Carlos Basterra, Vinod Goel, Sarath Rajapatirana, Khalid Siraj and Edgar Su.
Mr. Hans Lesshafft assisted the mission in preparing parts of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV.  BAPINDO'S PROSPECTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       27
Investment Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       27
Projected Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
Resource Position and Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
Projected Financial Position and Financial Results . . . .       30
V.  FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN . . . -   . . . . . . .       31
Loan  Components.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Loan Features ............ .                                     32
Project Benefits and Risks . . . . . . .        .   . . . .      34
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . .   . . . . . .       35
ANNEXES
1. Indonesia-s Financial System: Structure of Interest Rates as of
December 31, 1982
2. BAPINDO's Policy Statement
3. BAPINDO's Development Strategy Statement, 1983-85
4. BAPINDO's 1983/84 Action Program
5. BAPINDO's Operations:
Table 1: BAPINDO's Lending Rates as of December 31, 1982
Table 2: Summary of Operations, 1978-82
Table 3: Characteristics of Industrial Loans, 1978-82
Table 4: Equity Investment Portfolio, as of December 31, 1982
6.  BAPINDO½s Finances:
Table 1:  Summarized Balance Sheets, 1978-82
Table 2: Summarized Income Statements, 1978-82
Table 3: Analysis of Term Portfolio in Arrears 1980-82
Table 4: Resource Position as of December 31, 1982
7. BAPINDO½s Projected Operations and Finances:
Table 1:  Projected Operations, 1983-87
Table 2:  Projected Income Statements, 1983-87
Table 3:  Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-87
Table 4:  Projected Indicators of Financial Position and
Performance, 1983-87
Table 5:  Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1983-87
Table 6:  Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
8. Selected Documents in Project File
CHART: Organization of BAPINDO as of December 31, 1982
MAP: IBRD 11166 RI - Branch Locations



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
BASIC DATA
1. Year of Establishment: 1960
2. Ownership: Wholly owned by the Government of Indonesia
3. Bank Group Assistance:
Date of       Rate of       $ million as of December 31, 1982
Credit/      Date       effec-    interest /a       Loan    Com-       Dis-  Outstand-
Loan No.   signed    tiveness          (%)         Amount  mitted   bursed   ing lb
CR 310    06/07/72   08/10/72         7.25          10.00    9.55    9.55       1.88
CR 318    06/28/72   10/19/72         7.25           7.00    7.00    7.00       0.76
LN 1054   11/20/74   01/14/75         8.00          50.00   50.00   50.00    32.67
LN 1437   06/06/77   09/23/77         8.20          40.00   40.00   40.00    32.29
LN 1703   06/01/79   09/25/79         7.90          50.00   47.92   39.92    39.67
4.  Operations
1978      1979       1980         1981      1982
------------------ (Rp billion) -------------------
Approvals
Investment loans /c             21.7       51.7       94.9        271.4      433.0
Working capital loans             9.2       24.2      42.5          66.0      72.3
Kelayakan loans                  -          -          3.2          7.5        7.1
Keppres 14A loans                -          -          1.9         10.3       27.4
KIK/KMKP                         -          -          0.2          1.0        1.6
Cofinancing with RDBs            2.9        2.0        3.7          6.2        5.9
Equity investments                1.5        1.4      20.8         27.7       11.8
Total                        35.3       79.3      167.2        390.2      559.1
Commitments                        30.8      76.2      119.8        301.3      546.6
Disbursements                      38.1       68.6      87.3        202.4      314.2
Total Outstanding /d              115.2     168.5      208.7        372.9      578.2
/a  Minimum rates charged to BAPINDO by the Government.
/b  Refers to the balance in BAPINDO's accounts.
/c  Includes syndications with other banks.
/d  As of December 31, net of provisions for losses and excluded portions of
other banks.



- ii -
Interest Rates and Charges (% p.a. as of December 31, 1982)
5. Interest Rates
Investment loans                                            10.5 - 13.5  /a
Working capital loans                                               13.5
Small scale industry loans:
Investmeot loans (KIK)                                            10.5
Working capital loans (KMKP)                                      12.0
Export credit loans                                            6.0 - 9.0
Commitment Fees                                                 0.25 - 0/75 /a
6.   Financial Position and Performance
1978     1979    1980    1981       1982
Financial Position (as of December 31)
Total assets (Rp billion)                 144.8    196.9   258.2   423.9    657.7
Of which loan and equity
portfolio (net)                         79%      86%      81%      88%       88%
Long-term debt (Rp billion)                62.7    106.7   129.3   248.8    432.9
Of which IDA/ICRD                         44%       40%     33%      22%       12%
Total equity (Rp billion)                  63.4      64.7    75.8    89.0    101.7
Of which retained earnings/reserves   5.4%         7.3%    7.6%   10.2%    21.3%
Current ratio                             1.5:1    1.6:1   1.4:1   1.0:1    1.3:1
Long-term debt/equity                     1.0:1    1.7:1   1.7:1   2.8:1    4.3:1
Total debt/equity                         1.3:1    2.0:1   2.4:1   3.8:1    6.0:1
Debt service cover                          1.7       1.3      1.4     1.7       1.6
Provisions for losses as % of loan
and equity portfolio                      4.3       3.4     4.7      3.0       3.7
Financial Performance (%)
Gross income to average total assets
(ATA)                                    12.8     12.2    13.5    12.9        13.3
Financial expenses to ATA                   5.0       4.6      5.9     5.6       5.7
Administrative expenses to ATA              3.7       3.4      3.4     2.7       2.5
Provisions to ATA                           2.6       2.8      2.4     2.5       2.8
Profit before tax to ATA                    1.5       1.4      1.8     2.1       2.3
Net profit to average net worth             1.8       2.2     3.0      5.0       7.3
/a Depending upon size of loan.



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (BAPINDO) V
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Industrial Sector
1.01       Role in the Economy.  In the aftermath of the first oil boom in
1973, the industrial sector, including mining and energy, has been the
fastest growing sector of the economy. From 1971 to 1980, the industrial
sector grew at an average annual rate of 11% (manufacturing grew by 14%),
compared with about 8% for the economy as a whole.  Industry now-accounts
for about 33% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), compared with 14% in 1960 and
20% in 1970. Manufacturing, however, which typically is the most dynamic
component of the industrial sector, represented only 9% of GDP in 1980, a
low proportion when compared with Malaysia (23%), Thailand (20%), the
Philippines (26%) and Singapore (28%).  Manufactured exports, which during
the past five years have grown rapidly from a low base, now constitute only
14% of norr-oil exports or about 5% of total exports.  Only about 12% of
the labor force is employed in industry.
1.02       Structure and Performance.  The latest census of manufacturing
industries shows less than 1% of the number of establishments comprising
modern, capital-intensive industries produced over four-fifths of output,
value added and wages; while the vast majority of manufacturing firms, using
traditional, labor-intensive technology, employed nearly 90% of manufacturing
workers and generated only a fifth of output and value added. Industrial
policies have been oriented towards promotion of import substitution to meet
large and growing domestic demand, and are characterized by a high level of
protection by tariffs, quantitative restrictions and government sponsored
large capital investments. As a result, the industrial growth that took
place in the 1970s was, for the most part, concentrated in large
capital-intensive, mostly import-substituting industries, such as cement,
fertilizers, steel and paper in the public sector. Public sector investment
in industry and mining grew by 17.5% p.a. in 1975-80 outpacing the growth of
gross domestic investment of 8.9% p.a. during the same period. Given its
high protection and capital intensity, the industrial sector that emerged,
while impressive in terms of its early growth, was not overly successful in
generating a large number of employment opportunities or export revenues.
The Bank recently completed an industrial sector report (dated July 15,
1981) which focussed on specific problems related to the trade regime,
regulatory climate, financial policy environment and policies towards



- 2 -
private foreign investment./l The report made a number of recommendations
for improving the policy and institutional environment for stimulating
industrial activity. The needed restructuring effort in the industrial
sector that this study identified requires significant policy changes for
the economy to meet the challenges of the 1980s.
1.03      The Future Industrial Structure.  Given Indonesia's broad resource
base, a large labor force, low real wages compared to other countries in
the region, and access to foreign investment, there is potential for higher
industrial growth rates, employment and exports. Improved performance
should be based on (a) the rapid growth of labor-intensive, export-
oriented industries and (b) the selective development of resource-based
industries where Indonesia has a natural comparative advantage. These
latter activities will be related, for example, to oil, fertilizer, cement
and wood processing.
1.04      Moreover, the industrial sector must provide a formidable product
contribution to GDP growth to sustain the high real rates of GDP growth of
the 1970s. With the labor force expected to grow at about 3% per year in
the 1980s, the industrial sector must begin to absorb an increasing share of
employment and to generate more export revenues to replace the expected
decline in oil exports. In this context, Indonesia's Third Five-Year
Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84), places greater emphasis than previous
plans on the manufacturing sector. It aims at 11% p.a. growth for the
sector as a whole. Within this overall growth target, the Government has
been giving priority to four objectives: deepening the structure and
pattern of industry; generation of employment opportunities; protection of
the economically weak enterpreneurs; and the promotion of labor-intensive,
manufactured exports.
1.05      Industrial Policy Issues.  Achieving the above objectives, in the
overall context of industrial efficiency, will require substantial improve-
ments in the overall policy environment for industry. Specifically, action
is needed to reverse the existing bias toward production for the protected
domestic market and against exports, to attract more foreign investments, to
strengthen industrial planning and project appraisal capability and to
streamline Government licensing and other procedures. Some progress has
recently been made in these areas; however, much remains to be done.
1.06      So far, the area where the Government appears to be making the
most concerted effort to improve policy is in the trade sector. The recent
Rupiah devaluation of 38% should reduce the bias against export industries.
In addition,the Government is taking a number of steps to encourage export
promotion. In January 1982, the Government legislated a major policy
initiative in the areas of export finance, guarantees, credit and
/1 "Indonesia: Selected Issues of Industrial Development and Trade
Strategy," Report No. 3182-IND, July 15, 1981.



insurance. Key provisions of this new export policy include liberalizing
terms of payment for exports, automatic access of all exporters, direct and
indirect, to preferential working capital finance, mandatory government
guarantee of export finance, and establishment of a pre- and post-shipment
export credit and insurance system. The details for implementing these
reforms are currently being worked out.
1.07      In addition to this major policy reform, the Government is also
active in other areas of trade policy. For instance, the Government has
employed consultant services to help improve its duty rebate scheme and to
strengthen its delivery of technical and promotional services to exporters.
The-Government also intends to stimulate exports by establishing free trade
zones and estates. To this end, it has employed consultants to recommend
a program of export zones/estate development. The Government has also
recently taken action to improve customs procedures. It has also requested
Bank assistance in upgrading the quality of major export commodities. The
Government is also planning a major improvement in port facilities which
have been a considerable constraint on export development.
1.08      In other areas, progress has been much more limited.  In the area
of tariffs, the Government has prepared a first round overall reform and is
actively recruiting a team of technical experts to advise on further detailed
reforms. However, the first stage of tariff reforms have not yet been
implemented due to the increasingly difficult balance of payments position and
the lack of clear consensus in Government that tariff reduction is justified
at this time. Similarly, a substantial simplification of licensing and
regulatory procedures remains to be undertaken. In both these areas, the
Government seems concerned about the possible adverse impact broad reforms
might have on existing industries and movement on these issues is likely to
be gradual. In this context, a number of detailed subsector studies are
being undertaken or proposed in such subsectors as engineering industries,
pulp and paper, textiles, steel, cement and wood processing. These studies
are being given high priority by the Government and will explicitly address
policy issues at the subsector level. Thus, the impact of tariffs, trade
restrictions, regulations and local content laws will be assessed and
recommendations made on how to improve the policy framework for the
efficient development of the subsector. Further, these studies will
carefully assess the role of public investment in the subsector and together
with a program of technical assistance to the Investment Coordinating Board
strengthen the capacity of Government agencies to evaluate large complex
projects. As part of this technical assistance program, the Government
plans to send a selected number of officials for overseas training in
management of complex projects, export promotion and export financing. The
Bank has agreed to supervise and finance a number of these studies and
related training. For that purpose, $5.6 million including $200,000 for
training is included in this project (para. 5.01).
1.09      Although immediate across-the-board reforms are not likely in
these broad policy areas, it is not unreasonable to expect the Government,
during the next 3 or 4 years, to implement the initial steps of a phased



-4 -
program of reform. Such steps could include: further improvement in the
export credit and duty drawback system; implementation of a first round
tariff cuts reducing some of the high and redundant nominal tariffs; based
on the outcome of the subsector studies and work of the technical team on
tariffs, further specific tariff cuts aimed at evening and reducing levels
of effective protection across subsectors; major simplification of
Government procedures in specific subsectors; some improvement in the
Government-s project evaluation and promotion procedures; and implementation
of initial steps to streamline regulations for the whole industrial sector.
The Bank will be working closely with the Government in many of these areas
and will closely monitor performance.
The Financial Sector
1.10      Financial Institutions.  The Indonesian financial sector comprises
a commercial banking system dominated by six state-owned banks including:
the state development bank, Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINV0); Bank
Indonesia (BI), the central bank; 79 private national commercial banks; 10
foreign banks; three development finance companies; and 26 Regional
Development Banks (RDBs). As of end-1981, the aforementioned commercial and
development banks (excluding rural banks) had a total of more than 1,000
branch offices. Private commercial banks account for only about 5% of the
total gross assets of financial institutions. Currently, the asset
structure of the financial system is characterized by a dearth of long-term
credits; short-term credits of less than one year maturity account for
approximately 75% of all credits to the manufacturing sector. The paucity
of long-term instruments has led to substantial rollover (between 70% and
90% of total) of short-term credits, particularly by state commercial banks.
To help meet the need for long-term funds, the Government, through BI,
directly finances certain large-scale priority investments in the public
sector and provides rediscount facilities for other industrial investments
to state banks through various Government-sponsored credit programs, e.g.,
the medium-term investment (KIB) credit program for medium- and large-scale
enterprises and the small investment/working capital (KIK/KMKP) credit
program for smaller enterprises./1 The five state commercial banks and
BAPINDO are the major channels of these term credits. BAPINDO accounts for
about a third of outstanding term loans to the industrial sector. Since the
reactivation of the Jakarta Stock Exchange in 1977, a capital market began
/1 The Kredit Investasi Besar (KIB) program provides credits of up to
15 years at 10.5% to 13.5% p.a. rate of interest depending on loan size;
BI refinances 65-80% of loan amounts.  The Kredit Investasi Kecil (KIK)
program, which BI refinances up to 100% of loan amounts, provides small
(up to Rp 15 million) investment credits of up to 10 years, at 10.5%
p.a. rate of interest, while KMKP loans for permanent working capital
are extended for up to three years at 12% p.a.



to develop, but it is still small; only 13 companies have gone public and
there is little activity in bonds.  The roles of the major financial
institutions in industrial financing are described below.
1.11      Bank Indonesia plays an important role in Indonesia-s financial
system. In addition to its usual central bank functions, BI provides direct
credit to a number of state enterprises for priority projects and refina-'
facilities for banks under the Government-sponsored credit programs noted
above. Of the total credits outstanding as of December 31, 1981, direct
credits provided by BI to specific priority projects accounted for $4.2 bil-
lion, or over 25%. BI has also played a promotional role in the creation of
the specialized financial institutions, such as the Private pevelopment
Finance Corporation of Indonesia (PDFCI), the Indonesian Development Finance
Company (IDFC), P.T. ASKRINDO (a credit insurance company) and P.T. BAHANA
(a venture capital company).
1.12      The five state commercial banks dominate the banking system and,
as of end-1981, held nearly 80% of all assets of deposit money banks and had
a network of nearly 700 branches. These banks have charters for different
sectors, but, in practice, there is much overlap of functions and
activities. Lending and deposit rates of state banks are fixed by Bank
Indonesia except demand deposit rates for deposits less than six months.
Deposits with state banks are guaranteed by the Government. The overall
level of their lending both for working capital and investment financing, as
well as their lending priorities, are determined by Bank Indonesia. In
contrast, private banks, which are subject to countrywide credit ceilings
and limits on foreign borrowing, are free to set their own lending and
deposit rates. Public enterprises are required to bank with state banks,
assuring the latter a large command over deposits. Moreover, in carrying
out the credit programs on behalf of the Government, state banks rediscount
with BI at relatively low nominal and effective interest rates. The state
banks also provide full foreign exchange facilities and services.
1.13      BAPINDO was established in 1960, reorganized with Bank assistance
in 1971 and now represents a major source of medium- and long-term finance
for the industry and maritime sectors. In 1981, BAPINDO's term loans and
investment approvals for the industrial sector, amounting to Rp 249 billion
($377 million), financed about 17% of domestic industrial investments
approved by the Investment Coordinating Board; its term lending and
investment operations in the same year represented 32% of total state bank
loan approvals. Like state commercial banks, its interest rates for lending
operations and deposits, as well as its priorities, are determined by the
Government.
1.14      In addition to BAPINDO, there are 26 regional development banks
(RDBs) located in the provinces. Their capital shares are owned by regional
governments. Although designated as development banks, they have, up to the



- 6 -
present, largely provided commercial banking services and treasury-type
functions to regional governments. The quality of these banks varies widely
and their capital base remains narrow.  In recent years, they have under-
taken term lending under the auspices of the KIB and KIK/KMKP programs,
but much needs to be done to transform them to proper development banks.
Inadequate staff and absence of strong internal organization are some
of the constraints to their emergence as development banks. Since early 1980,
Bank Indonesia has been implementing a program to upgrade the operations of
these banks. The two-year upgrading program was completed in October 1982.
However, it is now realized that the program should be continued over the next
2-3 years with emphasis placed on RDB staff training and further improvement
of term lending operations (para. 3.r-4).
1.15      There are three nonbank financial institutions that are principally
engaged in granting medium- and long-term credit and taking equity partici-
pations.  They are PDFCI, IDFC and PT BAHANA.  Nine other nonbank financial
intermediaries are classified as investment-type institutions, of which five
are joint ventures between the five state commercial banks and foreign
shareholders. These institutions deal mainly in commercial paper and
promissory notes and provide services of a merchant banking nature.  In
addition, there are four private savings banks, one state-owned savings bank,
3,550 village banks, 2,143 paddy banks and 152 market banks. The role of
these secondary banks in the country s financial sector is small due to their
limited resources.
1.16      The Policy Environment.  Current objectives of Indonesian finan-
cial policy are: (a) the maintenance of price stability; (b) allocation of
credit to specific sectors in accordance with predetermined priorities;
(c) support for the weaker economic groups; and (d) promotion of institutions
to fill perceived gaps in the financial structure.  The main monetary instru-
ments used by the Government to pursue these objectives have been mandated
interest rates, credit ceilings and the discount window.
1.17      The current interest rate structure for state banks which has been
in effect since 1978 is characterized by an interlinked network of lending,
deposit and rediscount rates regulated by the Government and BI.  Lending
rates for short-term credits range from 9% to 21% p.a. with their weighted
average equal to 15% p.a. Interest rates on term credits vary from 10.5% to
13.5% p.a. for maturities from one to ten years, depending on loan size.
Deposit rates range from 3% to 15% p.a. depending on the type and maturity
of deposit (Annex 1). Over the period 1975-80, the level of lending rates
has consistently lagged behind domestic inflation rates, leading to negative
or low positive real interest rates. Since 1981, however, when the annual
inflation rate fell to 7.1%, both lending and deposit rates became positive
and remained positive through 1982. With price adjustments in domestic oil
products, power tariffs and passenger fares, the domestic price level is
expected to increase. Domestic inflation is now projected to range from



- 7 -
11-13% p.a. in 1983-85. /1  As a consequence, the current lending and
deposit rates could become marginally negative at least in the short run.
Such low interest rates contribute to misallocation of resources, lead to
increased subsidies from Bank Indonesia to support the operations of state
banks, and discourage savings.
1.18      With fixed and low interest rates, credit ceilings became necessary
to control the expansion of credit. While such ceilings may be necessary at
a time of inordinate price increases, their existence at times of moderate
price increases lead to substantial resource costs. The existence of
ceilings create biases in favor of large and official borrowers at the expense
of new entrants to the credit market.  As a result,, the state bank dominated
credit system favors well established, large public enterprises that are
capital intensive. Moreover, at times of increased liquidity, as in 1973 and
1979, when oil prices escalated, the combination of credit ceilings and fixed
interest rates has encouraged state banks to hold larger deposits abroad.  At
present, however, current account deficits in the balance of payments have
necessitated a repatriation of these deposits. To encourage the repatriation
of state bank deposits, Bank Indonesia is offering them deposit rates
comparable with foreign deposit rates.
1.19      The emerging balance of payments deficits are an additional reason
to adjust interest rates to help prevent short-term capital outflows.
Indonesia-s open foreign exchange system with fixed exchange rate regime has
served the country well in the past. Its continuance at a time of large
balance of payments deficits requires, among other policy actions, a movement
on the domestic interest rate front.
1.20      The third policy instrument to channel credit to different sectors,
keep onlending rates low and to provide adequate margins for onlending
institutions has been the discount window. Under the present provisions,
credit is channeled to different activities by creating differential
incentives for financial intermediaries through the discount rate and discount
proportions. Some 23 different discount categories are provided through the
discount window (Annex 1). Such a selective approach has become too
cumbersome to administer and supervise, and, given the fungibility of money,
desired objectives for use of funds have not always been reached. BI has been
aware of these problems and, in October 1982, eliminated the rediscounting
facilities for working capital credits at lending rates of 13.5% and above.
1.21      Financial Policy Reforms.  The Bank has had discussions with the
authorities on the need for reforming the current financial regime at the
macroeconomic level both in the context of the overall policy environment
and in relation to industrial finance. The recent reduction in oil revenues
has led to a much nore difficult and constrained balance of payments and
budgetary position and the Government has become increasingly aware in
/1 These projections will be adjusted following the March 30, 1983 devalu-
ation.



- 8 -
recent months of the need to take fundamental measures to mobilize savings
and improve the allocation of increasingly scarce resources.  Along with the
raising of lending and deposit rates, other reforms are required to bring
about a consistent and effective policy framework to replace the present
system. These would include the replacement of the system of prescribed
ceilings by a more demand determined credit system, reduction in the credit
subsidies given through the discount window and liberalizing of the credit
allocation mechanism to lead to a price determined system.
1.22       The Government is likely to follow a gradual and phased approach
to reform. As noted above, one action the Government recently took
was to eliminate the rediscount facilities for loans that are extended at
inte\rest rates of 13.5% p.a. This has affected a4.out a third of the credits
extended by state banks and has created some pressure to raise the lending
rates of the state banks, although no change has taken place as yet. In
addition, the current balance of payments deficits and the Government's
recent moves to establish a bond market will necessitate serious considera-
tion of the current interest rate structure and the associated financial
regime. The Bank is currently discussing these and other policy issues in
the context of the broader adjustments that may be necessary in response to
the rapidly changing international and domestic circumstances described
above.  In connection with the proposed loan to BAPINDO, the appraisal
mission discussed the effect of the present interest rate regime on BAPINDO
and quantified the cost to the Government of the subsidies being provided to
BAPINDO./l This issue was again discussed with the representatives of the
Government and BAPINDO at negotiations to illustrate some of the costs
involved in the present interest rate regime and to provide support for the
broader policy dialogue which is currently under way.
Bank-s Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors
1.23       The Bank's Past Industrial Lending.  The Bank's involvement in the
Indonesian industrial sector, so far, has been aimed at: (a) supporting the
Government's investment program in key industries such as fertilizer; (b)
promoting strong development finance companies (DFCs) to provide term
finance for investments in the private sector; (c) delivering financial and
technical assistance to SSEs; and (d) helping develop local capability for
establishing and operating industrial estates. To date, the Bank Group has
provided a total of $557.5 million to the Indonesian industrial sector
comprising six DFC loans made to BAPINDO ($157 million) and the Private
Development Finance Company of Indonesia ($18 million), three loans for
fertilizer production ($220 million), two loans for small enterprise develop-
ment ($146 million) and one loan for industrial estates ($16.5 million).
/1 The overall subsidy rate estimated as the difference between the
opportunity cost of capital including that of cost of intermediation
and the lending rates of BAPINDO amounted to 12.5% p.a. in 1982. On
this basis, total subsidies for 1982 were about Rp 64.3 billion and are
expected to increase to Rp 333.8 billion by 1987, if the current
interest rate structure is maintained.



- 9 -
1.24      Performance Under Bank Group Projects.  Since 1972, when the first
IDA credit was made to it, BAPINDO has made substantial progress in terms of
its institutional development. The specific areas where improvements are most
notable are: (a) substantial operational autonomy given by the Government to
BAPINDO; (b) strengthening of BAPINDO's management; (c) adoption of a "Policy
Statement' to provide sound financial and operating guidelines to BAPINDO's
operations; (d) streamlining of the organization and internal procedures;
(e) improved portfolio; (f) re-establishment of BAPINDO's creditworthiness
through massive capital increase, reduction of overheads, write-offs of
uncollectable loans, collections from large state enterprises and independent
audit of accounts; and (g) upgrading of BAPINDO's capabilities for project
promotion, appraisal and supervision through staff training and recruitment
and improved operating procedures. As a result, BAPINDO has since emerged as
the country's most important development finance institution with established
experience in term lending.
1.25      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2563, dated June 29,
1979), covering the first credit to BAPINDO (Credit 310-IND), stressed the
need for continued strengthening of BAPINDO's institutional capability,
project appraisal and supervision procedures and the need to maintain
BAPINDO's operational autonomy. These points had been taken into account in
BAPINDO IV (Loan 1703-IND) and are also fully reflected in the design of the
proposed BAPINDO V project. There have not been any major delays in the
disbursement of Bank funds. Proceeds of the BAPINDO IV loan are fully
committed and disbursements are expected to be completed on schedule by
September 30, 1983.
1.26      Apart from the significant institutional improvements noted above,
BAPINDO's lending under the Bank loans has financed substantial investments
leading to significant economic benefits being generated in the industrial and
maritime sectors. As of December 31, 1982, foreign exchange proceeds of the
BAPINDO IV loan (Loan 1703-IND) were extended to 54 subprojects with a total
cost of Rp 138 billion ($208 million). Incremental jobs created under these
subprojects numbered 7,551 at an investment cost per job of about $46,000.
Although this capital/labor ratio suggests an increasing capital intensity in
BAPINDO's operations, it is also indicative of the Government's emphasis on
large-scale, resource-based industries during the Third Five-Year Plan (para.
1.03). BAPINDO, however, has continued to cater to labor-intensive industries
under separate credit programs (KIK/KMKP) which are partly funded with Bank
assistance (para. 1.27). Under the BAPINDO IV loan, 22 of the 54 subprojects
fall under this category with capital/labor ratios averaging $5,800 per job
created. Average ERR per subproject was estimated at 23.1% and FRR at 20.1%
which compare favorably with average ERR of 20.1% and FRR of 17.4% of sub-
projects financed under the BAPINDO III loan (Loan 1437-IND). On the whole,
BAPINDO's development impact under the Bank loans has been satisfactory.
1.27      Performance under other industrial development projects has also
been generally good. The fertilizer projects have been successfully imple-
mented so that the domestic production of fertilizer was able to meet domestic



- 10 -
demand. Operational capabilities of PDFCI (Cr. 436-IND and Loan 1363-IND)
are under severe pressures at the moment due to weak management, high
arrears and its inability to raise sufficient term resources for its
operations. The implementation of the Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate Project
°(Cr. 428-IND) has been slow, but the basis of a soundly run estate, which
could be replicated elsewhere, has been established. To support the
Government s small credit programs (KIK/KMKP), a credit and a loan were made
by the Bank Group in 1978 and 1981 respectively. The proceeds have been
effectively used to finance projects which have had a significant impact on
the development of small-scale industrial enterprises.
1.28      Future Lending Strategy.  The Bank is developing a policy-based
strategy that would address key industrial and financial sector issues,
as discussed in the 1981 Industrial Sector Report, with detailed technical
assistance on specific policies and subsectors. Under this strategy, the
Bank would continue to be involved in policy issues, particularly in areas
noted in paras. 1.05-1.09, where progress can be made and the lending
operations, to the extent possible, would be designed in a way which
supports Bank-s policy objectives.  The Bank plans to use three types of
instruments to implement its lending strategy in the industrial sector. The
first type is industrial development loans that will be related primarily to
trade policy reforms; a first such project will focus on export promotion.
The second type will involve loans to financial institutions (such as the
one now proposed for BAPINDO) that will be related to developing
institutional capacity and provide a forum for keeping open and hopefully
gradually expanding the dialogue on financial sector reform. The third type
is subsector loans that will focus on policy issues at the subsector level;
loans are planned for the pulp and paper and engineering industries.
Technical assistance designed to build up institutional capability of
project agencies would continue to be stressed in all industrial development
projects.
1.29      Project Objectives and Justification.  The principal objectives of
the proposed project are to: (a) provide foreign exchange needed to
finance viable medium- and large-scale industrial projects; (b) continue
the Bank-s ongoing technical assistance to upgrade BAPINDO-s staff and
improve its organization to meet the rapid expansion of its operations; and
(c) provide financing for sectoral and policy studies leading to policy
recommendations, preparation of industrial projects and other technical
assistance in support of industrial development in the next Five Year Plan.
During the past decade, the Bank has provided BAPINDO with advice and has closely
monitored its progress in implementing various institution-building efforts and
financing development projects. BAPINDO has performed well with the Bank's
assistance, but, given the fact that institutional development is a long-term
process, much remains to be done to transform BAPINDO into a more dynamic
and self-sustaining institution. Moreover, as it has entered a new phase of
fast growth and more complex operations, the problems it faces in the
medium-term are also different from the ones encountered in the 1970s. To



- 11 -
meet these new challenges, BAPINDO would need to continue ongoing institu-
tional reforms and further strengthen its institutional capability in a
number of areas discussed in Chapter II. The proposed Bank loan would
enable the Bank to maintain continuity in its ongoing financial and
technical assistance to a key financial institution (BAPINDO) and to step up
its involvement in important financial and industrial development issues in
Indonesia.
II. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
Institutional Perspectives
2.01      Since the Bank last (1978) appraised BAPINDO in conjunction with
the Fourth Loan (Loan 1703-IND), BAPINDO's annual loan and equity investment
approvals have expanded dramatically (Chapter III). The number of projects
financed increased from 123 in 1978 to 1,303 in 1982. BAPINDO-s operations
have also become more diversified as its involvement increased in large
Drojects (cement, textile, plywood, paper and maritime industries) which
required complex financing and technical assistance packages. At the same
time, its lending to a large number of small industries under special credit
programs also expanded beginning in 1980.  During the period of rapid growth,
BAPINDO's professional staff increased by only 13% p.a. Staff training has
not been able to increase the number of skilled personnel in line with the
expanding volume of operations. While there have been significant
improvements in staff efficiency and productivity in the past, particularly
after the Program of Action in 1977 was instituted, the rapid growth of
BAPINDO's operations over the last several years has placed considerable
strains on the institution as a whole, and a need for a further reform was
felt to be urgently needed to help the institution adjust to its expanded
volume of operations.
2.02      Recognizing these problems, BAPINDO engaged a management consulting
firm to advise on all aspects of BAPINDO's organization, operations and
procedures with a view to improving its operational efficiency. Based in part
on the consultant's recommendations, a General Improvement Program (GIP) was
instituted on March 1, 1981, covering far reaching changes in the organiza-
tional structure, streamlining of operational procedures and staff training.
As discussed in the following sections, the implementation of the GIP posed a
number of difficulties which still need to be ironed out. The principal
bottlenecks include the lack of coordination among the newly established
units, inadequate staffing and lack of clear operational responsibilities
among operational units and branches. BAPINDO has now decided to intensify
its institution-building efforts to address these problems. For this purpose,
it has decided to implement a new Action Program in 1983 and 1984.



- 12 -
Action Program 1983/84
2.03       In 1982, a review of BAPINDO-s progress under the GIP led to a new
Action Program for implementation in 1983/1984 (Annex 4). The proposed
program calls for specific measures, supported by appropriate technical
assistance, designed to: (a) strengthen BAPINDO's project appraisal and
supervision by reducing overlaps and streamlining of procedures within the
Head Office and the hranches (para. 2.07); (b) intensify staff training and
development (paras. 2.09-2.10); (c) improve BAPINDOs planning process and
management information system (MIS) (paras. 2.11-2.12); and (d) improve
internal communication and liaison with outside agencies including, in
,_particular, its technical assistance to RDBsgj(para. 3.14). The proposed
Action Program, which would address institutional bottlenecks of BAPINDO
noted in para. 2.02, constitutes an important component of BAPINDO's
Development Strategy for 1983-85 (Annex 3), which gives, in specific terms,
BAPINDO's plans (and actions it contemplates) in the areas of operations,
resource mobilization, staff development, training, planning, research/
promotion, computerization procedures, etc. The Development Strategy
Statement, as approved by BAPINDO-s Supervisory and Managing Boards, would
not be amended without prior Bank approval. Specific milestones and
objectives to be achieved particularly during 1983 are set out in BAPINDO's
Action Program for 1983/84 and are satisfactory to the Bank. Progress on
these measures will be monitored by the Bank.
Organization
2.04       Management Structure and Process.  BAPINDO's management structure
has remained unchanged since 1972. A two-man Supervisory Board representing
the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank (BI) advises
BAPINDO on policy matters, provides guidelines on development priorities,
approves BAPITIDO-s financial operations and budget and acts as an essential
link between the Government and BAPINDO. Directly bhelow this tier is the
five-man Board of Managing Directors, headed by the President Director, who
has held that position since 1971. The President has provided continuity at
the top level and this has been an important factor contributing to
BAPINDO's growth over the past decade. Each of the other four Managing
Directors supervises four departments and a portion of the branches.
Replacement of two Managing Directors who retired from service in 1980 and
1981 by experienced professional managers (one from within BAPINDO and the
other from Bank Indonesia) has further strengthened the Board's decision-
making process. At the middle-management level, BAPINDO is managed by a
group of experienced technocrats at the Head Office, supported generally by
a strong group of branch managers, many of whom have risen from the ranks.
BAPINDO's management is generally effective, although some adiustments are
now needed to delegate decision-making power so that management can give
more of its attention to BAPINDOTs future directions and developmental
strategy.



13 -
2.05      Head Office.  Following the adoption of the GIP on March 1, 1981,
BAPINDO made a number of organizational changes. At the Head Office: (a) a
separate department (Credit Department III) was set up to handle special
credits for small firms, a function formerly handled by the Credit and
Branches Supervision Department; (b) a new Funds Department was established
to be primarily responsible for resource mobilization, formerly handled by
the Finance and Accounting Department; (c) supervision of projects in diffi-
culties was transferred from the Credit and Branches Supervision Department
to a new Special Debtors Supervision Department; (d) the training function
was separated from the Personnel Department and a new Education and Training
unit was created; (e) electronic data processing formerly handled by the
Planning Departmen_t was transferred to a new unit; and (f) the ,unit handling
technical matters was abolished and its functions transferred to the Research
Department. In addition, a new Planning and Budget Committee was formed to
consolidate and screen annual work programs and budgets before presentation to
the Board. The main change at the branch level associated with this
reorganization was the upgrading of eight subbranches to branches (para.
2.07). The reorganization raised the number of Head Office Departments from
14 at the end of 1980 to 18 by March 1981, and the number of full-fledged
branches from 10 to 18 during the same period (see Organizational Chart).
The responsibilities of the credit departments and supervision departments
have been streamlined. Credit Department I handles lending to industries in
Java and Bali; Credit Department II is responsible for lending to industries
outside Java and Bali and to the entire maritime sector; and Credit Depart-
ment III is involved in lending to small industries. The Credit and Branch
Supervision Department supervises the loan portfolio and the Equity Invest-
ment Department supervises the equity portfolio, both with the support of
the branches. The Special Debtors Supervision Department deals with problem
projects. During the early stage of project identification, the Project
Promotion Department plays an important role. The Research Department is
called upon to assist in both project identification and project appraisal.
BAPINDO's management expects that with the reorganization, BAPINDO would be
better prepared to handle its growing volume of operations, maintain a
higher level of operational efficiency, develop resource mobilization
capability and minimize administrative costs over time. The general and
administrative expenses, while increasing in absolute amounts each year, are
projected to decline as a percentage of total assets (from 2.5% in 1982 to
2.1% in 1987).
2.06      The process of BAPINDO-s reorganization has given rise to a number
of problems, a feature not unusual for a far-reaching reorganization of this
kind. The reorganization meant changes in managers of 15 of the 18 depart-
ments and appointments of several new branch managers through transfers or
promotion from the Head Office. The problem of securing adequate numbers of
skilled staff for the new departments has been particularly difficult.
Although the functions of the new units had been defined prior to the



- 14 -
reorganization, detailed job descriptions and operational guidelines had not
been sufficiently clarified. This resulted in some overlapping of functions
between the Head Office and branches, particularly in project appraisal.
Delegation of approval authority within the Head Office and to the newly
created branches has been effected, but its implementation could be further
improved. BAPINDO would address these problems under its proposed Action
Program for 1983/84 (para. 2.03).
2.07      Branches.  The upgrading of eight subbranches to full-fledged
branches, though in line with BI policy, appears to have aggravated the
overall problem of staffing and coordination within BAPINDO. To enable these
branches to undertake their newly acquirred appraisal and follow-up functions,
existing staff had to be trained and supplemented with more experienced ones,
transferred from the Head Office and other branches. In retrospect, this move
has had a negative impact on overall staff productivity, as adequate
replacements could not be found immediately through recruitment or training.
Since the GIP-s long-term objective is to transform branches into independent
production and profit centers, there is a need to strengthen existing branch
capability before further expansion is considered. In its Action Program for
1983/84, BAPINDO plans to address these problems by: (a) strengthening Head
Office monitoring of and assistance to branches; (b) clearly defining branch
operational responsibilities vis-a-vis the Head Office; (c) accelerating the
training of branch staff over the next two years; and (d) simplifying periodic
reporting requirements. While these measures are being undertaken, BAPINDO
will not open any new branch, with the exception of three new branches already
planned to be opened in early 1983. Specific measures to be taken by BAPINDO
to achieve the above objectives for branch improvements are set out in the
proposed Action Program for 1983/84.
Staffing
2.08      As of December 31, 1982, BAPINDO's total staff numbered 892, of
which 532 were professionals. Of the 892 staff, 550 were in the Head Office
and 342 in the branches. During 1978-81, its staff grew at an annual rate of
13%. BAPINDO plans to increase its staff in line with the growth of opera-
tions. The ratio of operational to non-operational staff will be maintained
at 65:35. The staff turnover rate has been low at around 3% p.a. during the
period. To obtain maximum benefit from the projected staff growth (tenta-
tively set at 12% p.a. during 1983-87), BAPINDO plans to formulate a
well-balanced recruitment plan, supported by appropriate skills-related
training and reassignment policies.
2.09      The quality of BAPINDO staff has improved over time.  However,
there is a need for more trained and experienced project officers at the
branch level, and a need for longer-term career planning and staff
development programs. Staff evaluation procedures, taking into account
efficiency and productivity, need to be systematized. BAPINDO plans to



- 15 -
rectify these problems by recruiting more economists, financial analysts and
engineers for operational units and by extensive training and reassignments.
Under the project, a four-man management consultant team will be provided,
including an advisor who would be engaged to assist BAPINDO in implementing
appropriate staff development policies and streamlining BAPINDO's personnel
management policies and procedures (para. 2.17).
Training
2.10       BAPINDO offers in-house training on basic project financing, project
appraisal and supervision, but its overall training capability is constrained
by insuSficient planning, scarce availability of expe'-ienced trainers,
inadequate course materials and to some extent lack of training facilities and
devices. External training courses conducted locally at such institutions as
the University of Indonesia and the Training Institute for Banking run by BI
can accommodate only a limited number of staff and cover general banking
subjects and loan officers  courses.  Overseas training on specialized banking
topics has also been limited only to a few staff. In 1981, 311 staff attended
some form of training, including training overseas for 25 managerial staff.
BAPINDO's training program has not kept pace with its changing needs and
should be planned more systematically. As a first step to remedy these
problems, BAPINDO established a separate training unit in 1981. After a
review of its training policy, BAPINDO has recently adopted a new training
system which, in contrast with the past, aims at linking training - in-house
and external - to operational performance. Under this system, training
objectives will be determined in close consultation with the Personnel
Relations Department which is responsible for evaluating individual staff
performance and career objectives. Training courses will be offered in
progressive phases covering prerequisite skills in management, marketing,
accounting and project analysis (1st Phase); critical issues in project
appraisal, implementation, supervision and general principles of management
(2nd Phase); and specialized topics on bank management (organization, human
relations, communication and corporate planning) will constitute the highest
phase to be offered to selected higher-level staff. In 1983, BAPINDO plans to
train 30 staff members under the first phase of the program, 60 under the
second and another 30 under the third level. In addition, 50 selected staff
will be sent overseas (another 50 in 1984) for more specialized training in
various aspects of development banking. While these targets appear low
compared with previous years, and in light of present training needs, they are
reasonable considering that in the first year of the program, BAPINDO would
need to build up its full-time training faculty (from 8 to 14), expand
training facilities, develop new course materials and acquire additional
training equipment and devices. To ensure coordination between personnel
and training policies, the same advisor mentioned in the previous paragraph
would help BAPINDO carry out the detailed training plan for 1983/84 and
develop appropriate course materials. Financing for a limited amount
($300,000) of specialized training materials and devices would also be
provided. In addition, the project would finance overseas short- and
long-term training (up to two years each) for 100 selected staff (para. 5.01).



- 16 -
Corporate Planning
2.11       So far, BAPINDO½s planning exercise has concentrated on setting
operational targets and budget on an annual basis. The current 5-Year
corporate plan still has to be linked effectively to manpower and organiza-
tional aspects so that it could be used effectively as a management tool.
There is a need to monitor and evaluate overall performance against agreed
annual and five-year targets. The Planning Department should be
strengthened by additional staff and procedural reform. As of December 31,
1982, the Planning Department group had only eight staff including two
support staff. BAPINDO recognizes the weakness of its planning process and
plans to strengthen it by training and assignment of new staff to strengthen
its operational and personnel planning capability.+ One of the four
consultants to be provided under the project would assist the Planning
and other departments in formulating an integrated corporate plan and
recommend to the Board the necessary institutional arrangements and
operational guidelines to implement and monitor the plan. The planning
advisor would be attached to the Board of Managing Directors.
Management Information System (MIS)
2.12      Over the years, BAPINDO has developed a comprehensive system of
reporting from branches and departments. However, reports have become
overly descriptive and long, making it difficult for various levels of
management to evaluate and utilize them as a tool for management control.
Starting in mid-1983 BAPINDO plans to conduct a thorough review of internal
reporting procedures with a view to simplifying the reports and improving
the system of processing reports and providing feedback both to and from top
management. Part of this review will focus on the availability and applica-
tion of existing computers, the need for additional equipment, programs and
staff training. By August 31, 1983, BAPINDO management will have a priority
list of areas that would need to be computerized during the next two years.
Following these preparatory steps, BAPINDO proposes to draw up, with the
help of a full-time consultant, an overall computerization plan to be
implemented in the next two years. Under the project, a management
information systems consultant with strong computer background will advise
BAPINDO on various alternatives of doing this and assist it in streamlining
and computerizing its management information procedures.
Operating Policies
2.13      The 1960 BAPINDO Act and 1972 Policy Statement constitute the basis
of BAPINDO's operational policies and guidelines. These policies are supple-
mented by implementing regulations issued by the Board of Managing Directors
from time to time, reflecting largely BI-s regulations and the Government s
development priorities. Besides defining broad guidelines for the basic
character and thrust of BAPINDO-s development assistance, the Policy
Statement limited BAPINDO-s outstanding long-term debt to three times its
equity; restricted its exposure in a single enterprise to 20% of its equity;
limited its equity investments in any single enterprise to 10% of its equity;
required that its total equity investments should not exceed its own total



- 17 -
equity; and prohibited BAPINDO from assuming the foreign exchange risk of
foreign currency loans. With few exceptions, which were approved by its
Supervisory Board, BAPINDO has complied with its Policy Statement. In view of
the growth of its operations and the growing complexity of its activities,
BAPINDOTs Supervisory Board has approved revisions in the Policy Statement
(Annex 2). Revisions relate to the Managed Funds provision (para. 3.12),
BAPINDO-s current and debt/equity ratios (paras. 3.17 and 3.18) and its
procurement policy (para. 5.07). The Policy Statement may not be amended
except in agreement with the Bank.
Procedures and Standards
2.14      Project Appraisal.  BAPINDO's appraisal procedures are specified in
an appraisal manual. Project appraisal is done by appraisal teams of 3-4
officers led by an experienced project officer. Since such teams usually
specialize in specific types of industries they tend to develop subsector
expertise over time. The main criteria used by BAPINDO in deciding whether or
not to finance a project is the feasibility of the proposed project based on
its economic, technical and financial merits rather than collateral offered by
the project sponsor. Environmental factors are important considerations in
project appraisal of resource-based industries. ERRs and FRRs are routinely
calculated on all loans of $1 million and above. The quality of appraisal
reports, particularly on Bank-financed projects, has continued to improve and
meet Bank-s DFC standards. Market and economic analysis, however, could be
further improved with more attention given to domestic and external demand
forecasts, the conditions and prospects of specific industrial subsectors and
the effect of various policy variables on the economic rate of return of
subprojects.
2.15      BAPINDO follows a two-tier system of appraisal procedures.  Loan
requests from the borrowers are received by the branches which carry out
preliminary screening of the application. If the required documentation is
found complete, the branches appraise the project and forward their appraisal
reports to the Head Office which conducts its own appraisal in a majority of
the cases, often repeating the work done by the branches. The quality and
degree of completeness of appraisal at the branch level varies considerably
depending upon staff capability and workload at the branches. This system of
appraisal contributed to long waiting time (as much as over a year) in some
branches before processing begins on a loan application. The loan processing
time also continues to be long (over 300 days on average). Appraisal reports,
particularly at the branch level, are too long. BAPINDO has recently
delegated appraisal responsibility for smaller loans and loans in certain
sectors to the branches to reduce duplication and follow-up training is
planned for branch operational staff in 1983/84. The training programs
described in para. 2.10 will have a strong focus on project appraisal and
stress market and economic analysis as an expansion in the number of trained
staff is the most important ingredient in improving project appraisal.
Several of the advisors referred to in para. 2.17 will also assist BAPINDO in
improving this aspect of its operations. Computerizing appraisal data for
future retrieval should also improve appraisal quality and reduce processing



- 18 -
time. By December 31, 1983, BAPINDO would: (a) formulate new appraisal
criteria based on economic, financial and technical considerations; (b)
further clarify the appraisal responsibilities of branches and Head Office;
(c) review and revise the loan appraisal procedures to further reduce loan
processing time; and (d) update the project appraisal manual to reflect the
above changes. In addition, BAPINDO, with assistance of the senior
development banking advisor, would develop, by March 31, 1984, a system for
exercising quality control of project appraisal reports.
2.16       Project Supervision.  BAPINDO maintains a project supervision manual
and a project monitoring system that is quite comprehensive. Once a loan is
approved, project monitoring and implementation remain the responsibility of
the respective Credit Departments at the Head Office. After the project is
implemented, supervision responsibility is passed on to the branches, except
for problem projects which are monitored by the Special Debtors Supervision
Department at the Head Office. The Credit and Branch Supervision Department
assists branches in project supervision. Performance of projects is monitored
by the Head Office and branches through regular reports from sponsors, phone
calls and regular visits by BAPINDO staff to the projects. However, as the
portfolio grew rapidly in the last few years, supervision tasks have become
more onerous and staff capability to provide guidance to clients in difficul-
ties has been put under severe pressures. Coordination between the Head
Office and branches in this respect has also become a problem. The need to
have a better coordinated monitoring system on project performance was felt
urgently needed. BAPINDO will address these problems by: (a) recruiting and
assigning more experienced staff to supervise projects; (b) systematizing
clients reporting procedures and forms; (c) introducing a monitoring system
for problem projects; and (d) increasing the frequency of regular supervision
visits by Head Office staff to the branches to improve coordination and
feedback. The timetable for implementing these plans is contained in the
detailed 1983/84 Action Program which will be monitored by the Bank.
Technical Assistance Requirements
2.17       As discussed in the foregoing paragraphs, BAPINDO-s Action Program
for 1983/84 (Annex 4) would address the most critical institutional,
operational and staffing problems that now affect its overall efficiency and
could stand in the way of its future growth. In view of the variety of tasks
involved and to simplify coordination, BAPINDO has decided to hire a
management consulting firm to help individual operational units implement the
Action Program.  The management consulting firm would be expected to provide a
four-man team comprising experts in personnel, human resource development and
training (paras. 2.09-2.10); corporate planning (para. 2.11); management
information systems (para. 2.12); and consultancy services (para. 3.14). In
addition, BAPINDO would engage for 24 months the services of a top-level
development banking advisor to advise the Board on general operations and
corporate strategy and assist it in supervising the implementation of the



- 19 -
Action Program, particularly those aspects relating to improving project
appraisal and supervision. Detailed Terms of Reference (TORs) have been
reviewed by the Bank and are contained in the Project File and the selection
of the advisor and the consulting firm would be subject to the prior approval
of the Bank. BAPINDO has agreed to have the contracts with the advisor and a
management consultant firm, satisfactory to the Bank, signed by September 30,
1983.
III. BAPINDO'S OPERATIONS
Summary and Overview of Operations
3.01       BAPIN4DO's financial assistance for the industrial and maritime
sectors, presented in Annex 5, Table 2 comprise: (a) term loans for fixed
asset financing for all sizes of firms; (b) permanent working capital loans
associated with term loans; (c) loan syndications with other financial
institutions; (d) equity investments; (e) special credit schemes designed to
assist small-scale enterprises; and (f) cofinancing with and technical
assistance to RDBs. Additionally, BAPINDO administers Government funds for
specific development projects, carries out economic and research studies, and
undertakes the promotion of particular projects.
3.02       BAPINDO's lending terms and priorities, like those of other state
banks, are set by the Government through BI which directs allocation of
credit mainly through preferential interest rates and the rediscount
mechanism.  Unlike other state commercial banks, however, BAPINDO is the only
bank authorized by BI to make loans of over Rp 2.5 billion ($3.6 million) or
with maturities of over 10 and up to 15 years; to make long-term working
capital loans; and to make equity contributions for the projects to qualify
for financing under BI-s credit programs.
3.03       Since 1978, when BAPINDO was last appraised, BAPINDO's operations
have recorded an unprecedented expansion. Annual new approvals of loans and
equity investments have increased from Rp 35 billion ($50 million) in 1978 to
Rp 559 billion ($799 million) in 1982, an average annual growth rate of 103%.
Consequently, BAPINDO's loans and equity investments outstanding rose sharply
from Rp 120 billion ($171 million) in 1978 to Rp 578 billion ($826 million) as
of December 31, 1982. As reflected in new approvals between 1978 and 1982
(shown below), the structure of BAPINDO's operations has also changed as its
share in special loans for small enterprise development and local contractors
also increased significantly.
3.04       The bulk of the growth in annual approvals (70% in 1982), however,
has come from investment loans to industry (excluding portions syndicated with
other banks). Investment loans to the maritime sector for the purchase of
used and new ships have also grown, but accounted for a declining share of
BAPINDO's loan approvals due to the availability of export/suppliers credits
from abroad and fluctuations in demand. The maritime sector accounted for
about 12% of total term loans approved in 1978-82.



- 20 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS, 1978-82
(Amounts in Rp billion)
Avg.
1978             1982             1978-82        annual
%                                  % %  Z  growth
Amount  Share   Amount  Share   Amount  Share    (%)
1978-82
Investment lans /a         21.7   61.5    433.0   77.4   e872.7   70.9   116.7
Of which, industry       (12.8) (36.2)  (368.3) (65.9)  (695.2) (56.5) (150.1)
maritime       (8.5) (24.1)   (41.5)  (7.4)  (105.0)  (8.6)  (94.2)
syndications  (0.4)  (1.2)   (23.2)  (4.1)   (72.0)  (5.8)  (52.5)/b
Working capital loans         9.2   26.1       72.3   12.9    214.2   17.4    75.9
Special loans                 -      -        36.1    6.5       60.1    4.9   259.1/b
Cofinancing with RDBs         2.9    8.2        5.9    1.1      20.8    1.7    28.9
Total Loan Approvals    33.8   95.8    547.3   97.9  1,167.8   94.4   104.4
Equity investment             1.5    4.2      11.8    2.1       63.2    5.1    33.5/b
Total Operations          35.3  100.0    559.1  100.0  1,231.0  100.0   103.1
Total Disbursements       38.1             314.2             710.6             73.6
/a Including syndicated loans.
/b 1980/81 growth rates only.
Source: Details are given in Annex 5, Table 2.
3.05       The rapid growth of BAPINDO½s operations between 1978 and 1982 is
due to a combination of factors. The overall investment climate remained
favorable, since the adverse effect of the worldwide recession which pre-
vailed during the period was cushioned to a large extent by a relatively
buoyant, oil-based economy. While there was a declining demand for exports
worldwide, domestic demand for industrial products, supported by rising
incomes in Indonesia, continued to remain strong. Government policies
provided further impetus to demand for credit, as certain large resource-
based industries (cement, forest products, petrochemicals, textiles, among



- 21 -
others) were promoted under the current Third Five-Year Plan. In pursuit of
this objective, special loans designed to promote indigenous enterprises were
implemented beginning in 1979/80 adding to the already extensive credit
programs for priority industries.
3.06      During the period of rapid growth, BAPINDO's financial assistance
has also become more diversified and complex, requiring new skills among
BAPINDO staff and development of appropriate operational guidelines. Like all
other state banks, BAPINDO participated actively in special credit schemes
(Kelayakan, Kepres 14A and KIK/KMKP),/l that are aimed at promoting indigenous
enterpreneurs in the small-scale enterprise sector. These special loans
accounted for 50% of total number and only 4% of loan amounts approved didring
1978-81, indicating the small average size of individual subloans. BAPINDO,
in addition, has expanded its assistance to RDBs since 1980 by providing
technical assistance to 18 of 26 RDBs, with which BAPINDO had financing
arrangements involving KIK/KMKP since 1973. Although these small-scale
industry loans are expected to have a limited role in BAPINDO's total
operations in the future, they have, on account of their number and small
size, required large amounts of time and staff effort to process and
supervise.
3.07      Since 1976, BAPINDO has also participated in syndications of loans,
either as a member or as the lead syndicator, with five state commercial banks
and two nonbank financial institutions (PDFCI and IDFC) and other foreign
financial institutions. These operations are encouraged by BI and are
required for all special credits above Rp 500 million for investment and
Rp 750 million for working capital. During the period 1978-1982, BAPINDO
participated as a member of 53 such syndicated loans, which represented about
6% of BAPINDO-s total approvals during that period. BAPINDO does not plan to
participate in any syndicated loans offered by other state banks in 1983/84.
/1 Kelayakan loans are term loans up to Rp 75 million to small indigenous
entrepreneurs with easier conditions regarding collateral requirements
and capital contributions to the projects which are judged viable.
Kepres 14A are short-term loans for indigenous suppliers or contractors
who require bank financing of up to Rp 200 million to fulfill orders
from Government agencies. KIK/KMKP are investment/working capital
loans up to Rp 15 million each, with 75% insurance against credit risk
provided by P.T. ASKRINDO.



- 22 -
Characteristics of Industrial Loans
3.03       The characteristics of industrial loans committed through December
1982 are given in Annex 5, Table 3. BAPINDO½s loan commitments during this
period show the impact of large projects, predominantly in the private
sector, on the average size, sectoral and geographic distribution of loans.
3.09       Over the last two-and-a-half years, strong Government emphasis on
large-scale (lumpy) projects (para. 1.04) notably cement, plywood, textile
and oil drilling rigs, has had a strong influence on the average size of
individual subloans. In 1981, for example, one cement plant from the public
sector was extended a loan of Rp 72- billion ($103 million).  In the first
six months of 1982, two additional large loans for cement projects, one from
the private sector, had been approved and a third was approved by the end of
the year. These three loans alone amount to Rp 224 billion ($320 million),
or 57% of approvals for 1982. Consequently, the average size of industrial
investment loans increased every year from Rp 379 million ($541,000) in 1978
to Rp 605 million ($864,000) in 1980 and reached Rp 3,935 million ($5.6 mil-
lion) in 1982. If loans considered by BAPINDO as large (i.e., exceeding
Rp 3 billion each) are excluded from the calculation, the average size would
be Rp 438 million ($625,000) in 1980 and Rp 2,000 million ($2.9 million) in
1982.
3.10       BAPINDO½s investment loans have been reasonably distributed to
various sectors with relatively higher exposure in textiles, plywood and
cement in recent years. In terms of overall regional distribution of
industrial loans, about 65% of loan commitments continue to be concentrated
in the island of Java, the main center of population. However, the
concentration changed dramatically in 1981 when Java only accounted for 32%
of total commitments due to one large loan for a cement project in West
Sumatra accounting for about 34% and four loans for wood processing projects
in Kalimantan accounting for about 22%. With the emphasis on resource-based
industries, this trend is likely to continue.
3.11       Other loan characteristics have less clear correlation with the
changing size and composition of BAPINDO's projects. The average maturity
of BAPINDO½s investment loans has remained around eight years, compared with
about six years for working capital loans.  About 80% of the number and 52%
of amount of loans committed during 1978-82 have been for expansion/
modernization purposes. During the same period, industrial loans to the
private sector accounted for over 90% of the number and 77% of amounts
approved. A sample survey of subprojects financed by BAPINDO in 1980 shows
ERRs of about 20% and FRRs of about 18%.



- 23 -
Managed Funds
3.12       In 1977, BAPINDO set up the 'Managed Fund" mechanism for Government-
sponsored priority projects which exceeded BAPINDO's investment limits or are
not covered under its normal investment criteria. The funds for such projects
were provided by the Government and BAPINDO did not assume any credit risk,
simply charging a fee for handling. BAPIiNDO has, in recent years, used it to
channel Government loans from bilateral sources into a few large public sector
projects. As the Government is shifting direct financing of a number of
public sector industrial projects to financing by banking institutions,
BAPINDO may be entrusted with the responsibility of financing some of these
projects whichrmay not qualify under BAPINDO's normal investment criteria. To
safeguard its viability as a financial institution, BAPINDO has incorporated
in its Policy Statement a provision that specifies: (a) that BAPINDO will
apply its normal appraisal procedures to all projects presented to it for
financing and will accept only those projects that meet its established
economic, financial and technical criteria; and (b) that BAPINDO shall
administer specially provided Government funds to such projects as an agent
without assuming any credit risk and shall receive an adequate fee for this
service.
Equity Investments
3.13      Details of BAPINDO's equity investments, as of December 31, 1982,
are given in Annex 5, Table 4. The principal objectives of these investments
are to strengthen the equity base of private pribumi enterprises, to increase
Indonesian share in joint-venture companies, and thus expedite the process of
indigenization of industries. BAPINDO considers most of these investments as
temporary in nature and expects to sell its shares in the capital market,
giving the first right of refusal to the original owners when the companies
start to be profitable and adequate offers to buy become available. Under
BAPINDO's Policy Statement, the maximum limit for total equity investments is
100% of its net worth. Until 1979, BAPINDO had made few and relatively small
equity investments, amounting each year to less than Rp 2 billion. However,
with the intensification of the government policy to develop pribumi
enterprises, additional funding facilities from BI were made available for
that purpose,/l and BAPIND0-s equity investment approvals increased in number
/1 Loan amounts of up to 65% to 100% of the investment, interest rates of 3%
to 4% p.a., maturity up to 8 years, and repayments adapted to the expected
stream of dividends.



- 24 -
and size, reaching Rp 20 billion ($29 million) in 1980 and Rp 28 billion
($40 million) in 1981. As of December 31, 1982, BAPINDO had approved 74
equity investments in 52 companies, mostly private, amounting to a total of
Rp 61.9 billion, approximately 66% of BAPINDO-s net worth, but it had only
disbursed Rp 42 billion by that date. When its individual investment is
more than 25% of a company½s shares because of special circumstances,
BAPINDO has to obtain prior approval of its Supervisory Board. Altogether,
BAPINDO's investments in seven companies have exceeded this limit, repre-
senting 27% of its equity portfolio as of December 31, 1982.  As the equity
investments have had relatively low yields, BAPINDO has decided to greatly
reduce the rate of growth in its equity investments in 1983-87 (para.
4.02).
Regional Development Banks
3.14      In 1980, BI initiated a program to upgrade RDBs and strengthen their
term lending capability. To implement this program, BI appointed BAPINDO to
assist 15 RDBs (subsequently increased to 18 in early 1982) and IDFC to
assist the five relatively more advanced RDBs. The program envisaged a
two-year implementation period ending on October 31, 1982, focussed on
improving RDBs- management and organization, accounting and reporting
systems, and staff skills in project appraisal and supervision. BI allocated
$2.5 million out of the proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) to defray the
cost of the program. The detailed work programs agreed between BAPINDO and
individual RDBs were not completed as scheduled, due to lack of suitable
staff in many of the RDBs, some internal administrative problems and the
inadequacy of the training programs for RDB staff. These problems have been
compounded by the uneven quality of BAPINDO's consultancy advice and
insufficient work programming. Therefore, under the proposed project, an
advisor would be hired as part of the management consultant team (para. 2.17)
to assist BAPINDO-s RDB consultant group plan its work program more effec-
tively, coordinate training of RDB staff and organize subcontracting of
specialized tasks on which the group lacks the expertise, e.g., accounting
systems, MIS. This support should substantially enhance BAPINDO-s capacity
to provide effective help in strengthening the RDBs.
Research and Project Promotion
3.15      To support its operations and role in industrial development,
BAPINDO carries out studies including market analysis for particular sectors
or industries and disseminates the results to other Government agencies and
its clients. This function has given BAPINDO an opportunity to influence
the design of projects promoted by the Government in the industrial sector.
The quality of sector reports, however, has been mixed, partly due to lack
of data and partly due to weak analytical framework. This aspect of
BAPINDO's developmental function needs to be further strengthened as the
Government is planning to promote investments in key resource-based
industries in the medium-term. BAPINDO has recognized this need and is in



- 25 -
the process of increasing the number of economists in the Research Department
and is in some cases beginning to contract some sector studies to universi-
ties. BAPINDO has also strengthened its capacity to promote new types of
projects and projects in the less industrialized parts of Indonesia. An
expatriate Project Promotions Advisor was engaged in March 1982 and financed
under the Bank's last loan to BAPINDO (Loan 1703-IND). Since then, BAPINDO's
promotional activities as well as criteria have improved significantly,
although there is still some scope for improving promotional activity at the
branch level. Under the proposed project, BAPINDO plans to further strengthen
project promotional activities in the branches, by setting and closely
monitoring lending targets for all branches and increasing the frequency of
project promotion visits of Head Office $staff, assisted by the Project
Promotions Advisor. This process has already been started.
Financial Position and Performance
3.16      Financial Position.  BAPINDO's financial position in recent years,
1978-82 (December 31) as summarized in Annex 6, Table 1 has been character-
ized by rapid growth and relatively higher leverage. On the whole, BAPINDO's
financial position is satisfactory. During the period of rapid expansion in
its operations noted in the foregoing paragraphs, BAPINDO's total assets
grew at an average annual rate of 46%; in 1982 alone, the growth rate was as
high as 55%. The largest contribution to asset growth came from the invest-
ment loan portfolio which grew at an annual rate of 44% durinR 1978-81, and
707 in the 1982. As a result, the loan and equity portfolio in total assets
increased from 79% in 1978 to 88% in 1982. The expansion in BAPINDO's assets
was largely (over 90%) financed through borrowings made possible by the very
low debt/equity ratio of BAPINDO in 1978.  Consequently, long-term debts,
increased more than sevenfold from Rp 62.7 billion ($90 million) in 1978 to
Rp 433.0 billion ($619 million) in 1982. Bank Indonesia is the largest
creditor of BAPINDO; its share in total long-term debts increased from 37% in
1978 to 56% in 1982. During the same period, resources provided by GOI
including borrowings from pension funds placed at BAPINDO's disposal emerged
as the second most important source of term funds accounting for about 24% of
all long-term debts of BAPINDO in 1982 (5% in 1978). Borrowing from
international lending institutions (the World Bank, ADB and KfW) remains an
important source of long-term funds, but its relative share in total term
borrowings declined from 41% to 17%. Between 1978 and 1982, BAPINDO's equity
increased by about 60% from Rp 63.4 billion to Rp 101.7 hillion. In addition
to retained earnings (Rp 22 billion), a substantial portion of the equity
increase came through conversion of BI loans into equity (Rp 20 billion).
3.17      Between 1978 and 1982, the growth of BAPINDO's long-term debts
outpaced that of its equity. Consequently, the long-term debt to equity
ratio which, from 1972 to 1978, had remained below 1.0:1 rose to 2.8:1 at
the end of 1981, and 4.3:1 by December 31, 1982. The Government proposed



- 26 -
to increase the 3:1 limit prescribed in the Bank's existing Project Agreements
to 6:1 so that BAPINDO could maintain a reasonable leverage in its operations.
Such an increase is justified, given the fact that BAPINDO's portfolio is
basically sound, the bulk of its long-term debt obtained from BI is on favor-
able terms, its debt service cover will remain adequate, and this ratio is
prudent and will not jeopardize BAPINDO's financial position. BAPINDO's
revised Policy Statement reflects this increase (Annex 2).
3.18      Of late, BAPINDO's liquidity position has deteriorated as reflected
in the current ratio decrease from 1.5 in 1978 to 1.3 as of December 31, 1982.
This decline is due to BAPINDO's policy of making initial loan disbursements
out of its own resources, pending approval and release of funds by BI and
other creditors, so as to avoid delays in project implementation. The revised
Policy Statement specifies that BAPINDO's current ratio will be maintained at
all times at a minimum level of 1.15:1 (para. 2.13). BAPINDO would maintain
this ratio by timing it disbursements more closely with the flow of funds from
BI and other sources.
3.19      Financial Performance.  Summarized audited income statements for
1978-81, and the unaudited statements for 1982, reflect all-round improvements
in BAPINDO's profitability (Annex 6, Table 2). BAPINDO's net profit increased
almost four times, from Rp 1.1 billion in 1978 to Rp 4.1 billion in 1981, and
showed a further increase of 70% in 1982. However, the return (after tax) on
average total assets showed much slower growth, from 0.8% in 1978 to 1.2% in
1981 to 1.3% in 1982. Income from term loans, accounting for about 89% of the
gross income, marginally increased from 12.8% in 1978 of average portfolio to
13.8% in 1982, but because of the rising weight of low-cost loans from BI in
BAPINDO's liabilities, the average cost of long-term debt declined from 10.1%
in 1978 to 7.3% in 1982, resulting in an increase in gross interest spread
from 2.7% to 5.3%. Moreover, administrative expenses as a percentage of
average total assets, although still high, declined from 3.7% in 1978 to 2.7%
in 1981 and further to 2.5% in 1982. Consequently, the net profit as a per-
centage of net worth increased from 1.8% in 1978 to a more acceptable,
although still low return of 5.0% in 1981, which further increased to 7.3% in
1982. Due to the rapid expansion of BAPINDO's operations, annual provisions
for possible losses on loans and equity investments (6% of portfolio growth
according to BAPINDO's policy) have been maintained at a relatively high level
during 1978-82 at about 2.6% of average total assets. Debt service cover was
adequate during the period. Despite significant improvement in recent years
as outlined above, BAPINDO's profitability is still somewhat lower than
expected of a development financial institution. This is due to: (a) Govern-
ment imposed ceilings on BAPINDOs lending rates; (b) BAPIND0½s policy of
making rather liberal provisions for possible losses on portfolio; and (c) low
yield on equity investments. In this perspective, BAPINDOs financial results
are satisfactory. However, BAPINDO's profitability is expected to continue to
increase in the future.



- 27 -
Quality of Portfolio and Arrears Situation
3.20       BAPINDO's outstanding term-loan /1 portfolio totalled Rp 578.2 bil-
lion as of December 31, 1982, of which 80% in amount were extended to the
industrial sector, and 20% to the maritime sector. The quality of BAPINDO's
overall portfolio, shown in Annex 6, Table 3, after showing an improvement in
1979-81, has deteriorated in 1982. Loan amounts in arrears (over 3 months)
rose in absolute terms from Rp 5 billion in 1981 to Rp 11.3 billion, after
reschedulings of Rp 26.8 billion. Arrears as a percentage of the long-term
portfolio have increased from 1.5% in 1981 to 2.1% in 1982. Loans affected by
arrears, amounting to 5.3% of term loans outstanding at the end of 1981,
increased to 9.7% by Decembter 1982 (4.4% in 1980). Depressed economic
conditions in Indonesia and more difficult external market conditions have
affected adversely some firms which has contributed to the perceptible rise in
arrears. Arrears were concentrated in maritime loans (4.6% of loans
outstanding), where reschedulings had also been larger than the reschedulings
of industrial loans. The collection ratio remains at about 74% in 1982 as
compared with 72% in 1981. Ten old loans which had been in arrears for some
time, amounting to Rp 6 billion or 1.8% of the term portfolio, were finally
writterr-off in 1981. Despite the increases in arrears and reschedulings which
should be seen in the light of the presently depressed economic conditions in
Indonesia, BAPINDO's portfolio can still be considered satisfactory.
Moreover, provisions, which decreased in 1981 to 2.9% of the outstanding
portfolio from 4.7% in 1980 due to the above mentioned heavy write-offs,
increased again in 1982 to 3.7% and are adequate to cover potential bad debts.
To prevent any further deterioration in its portfolio quality, BAPINDO
recently reviewed the portfolio in arrears, analyzing factors behind the
arrears and recommending a variety of remedial measures including
strengthening project supervision, financial restructuring of the affected
firms, debt rescheduling in exceptional cases, changes in project management
personnel, and intensified technical assistance efforts. In light of the
recommendations of this portfolio review, BAPINDO has developed and would
implement a specific set of monitorable actions including the maintenance of a
75% collection rate which are also specified in the proposed Action Program
(para. 2.03).
IV. BAPINDO'S PROSPECTS
Investment Outlook
4.01       Gross investment in Indonesia grew by 12% a year in real terms in
the latter half of the 1970s and by 1980 the share of investment in GDP had
risen to 22%.  During the late 1970s, private investment grew by 10% in real
terms and accounted for 53% of aggregate investment. The investment outlook
for the 1980s is difficult to forecast, particularly in the short-run, given
/1 Excluding provisions for doubtful accounts but including accrued
interest.



- 28 -
the stagnancy of oil prices and the uncertainties associated with the recent
devaluation of the Rupiah. The recent emergence of a tight foreign exchange
constraint has significantly lowered the level of investment. While it is
anticipated that most of the adjustment will be in the public investment
program, private investment will also have to absorb part of the impact.
Recent Bank projections suggest that the growth in private investment might be
reduced to about 4% in real terms and 14% a year in nominal terms for the
medium-term (1983-87). Despite this anticipated slackening in the growth of
investment, investment demand should be more than adequate to justify
BAPINDOTs projected program of operations which is expected to grow slightly
less rapidly than the overall rate of investment. BAPINDO½s latest pipeline
consisting of almost entirely private sector- investments includes projects in
textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, lumber, glass, and the maritime sectors.
Demand for maritime loans is expected to increase more rapidly than in the
past since the Government is accelerating development of inter-island
transport; and the growth of special loans for small enterprises is also
expected to continue but at a slower pace than during the last two years, as
other banking institutions are expected to play a larger role in this area.
Projected Operations
4.02      BAPINDO plans to slow down the growth of its operations in the next
two years. This would enable the institution to consolidate its operations
and undertake measures to improve its institutional capability. BAPINDO now
projects total lending and equity investment approvals to grow by 12.5% p.a.
in nominal or about 2.5% p.a. in real terms during 1983-87 (compared with over
100% in 1978-82). No new equity investment approvals will be made in 1983 and
only Rp 2-3 billion a year are projected for the rest of the period. For the
fiscal years 1983/84 and 1984/85, during which the proposed Bank loan is
expected to be committed, total commitments are estimated at Rp 687 billion
($981 million) of which Rp 149 billion ($213 million), or 22%, constitutes
the foreign exchange component. BAPINDO's operational projections and under-
lying assumptions appear realistic.
Resource Position and Requirements
4.03      So far, BAPINDO has completely relied on official sources for its
resource needs mainly because of the regulated interest rate regime which has
made direct resource mobilization financially unfeasible for state banks.
Details of BAPINDO-s resource position as of December 31, 1982 (Annex 6,
Table 4) show that 81% of BAPINDO-s total resources have been provided,
directly or indirectly, by the Government and BI. Of the long-term resources
amounting to Rp 552 billion ($789 million) as of the end of 1982, deposits
from Government pension fund and Government-s equity contribution to BAPINDO
accounted for 33%, borrowings from BI and other state banks 38%, and proceeds
of two-step loans obtained by the Government on BAPINDO's behalf from
international lending institutions (IDA/IBRD, ADB and KfW) accounted for 10%.
As of the same date, BAPINDO-s short-term resources, amounting to Rp 92
billion ($131 million), were sufficient to finance its short-term loans,
reserve requirement against deposits and other current assets.



- 29 -
4.04      Resource Requirements and Funding.  As in the past, BAPINDO would
continue to rely on Government/BI resources and the Bank loan to meet its
projected lending operations from mid-1983 to mid-1985. During negotiations,
BAPINDO, with the endorsement of Government, presented the following
financing plan:/l
Table 2:  PROJECTED COMMITMENTS AND SOURCES OF FUNDS, 1983/84-1984/85
Weighted
ave. cost
Total cost        Share   of new funds
(Rp billion)        (%)          (X)
Total Commitments              687.0            100         6.74
Sources of Funds
Ministry of Finance           40.0              6        7.00
Bank of Indonesia            335.3             49        5.00
BAPINDO                      171.7             25        6.68
IBRD loan                    140.0             20       11.00
With the above blending of funds, the weighted average cost of funds to
BAPINDO for its 1983-85 lending program is estimated at 6.7% on a commitment
basis (para. 4.07). Since the bulk of BAPINDO's term loans would be
extended at 13.5% p.a. its overall spread will be about 6% which is sufficient
to maintain its financial viability. /2 Furthermore, the GOI delegation gave
assurances that the Government would provide the necessary funds to support
BAPINDO's projected operations in 1983-85 and GOI would discuss with the Bank
each BAPINDO fiscal year the level, timing and manner of the financial support
/1 These projections do not take into account the effects of the recent
devaluation of the Rupiah, but BAPINDO, in consultation with GOI,
has reviewed its projected lending program. The revised projections of
BAPINDO's resource requirement amount to Rp 745 billion for the period
1983-85. The increase of Rp 58 billion is due to the increase in the
amount of the proposed Bank loan of $200 million when expressed in
Rupiah equivalent based on the new exchange rate.
/2 The increase in the total size of the Rupiah lending program due to
the devaluation resulted in an increase in the financing share of the
Bank loan, expressed in Rupiahs, from 20% to 26% of total costs, and
has caused the weighted average cost of funds to BAPINDO to rise
marginally from 6.7% to 7.1%.  This would still give BAPINDO an
overall spread that is adequate to maintain its financial viability.
As noted in footnote 1 on the following page, BAPINDO's profitability
is expected to be higher than had been projected before the devaluation.



- 30 -
to be provided by GOI, Bank Indonesia and other sources to BAPINDO for the
following fiscal year, taking into account BAPINDOTs profitability,
development strategy and lending program.
4.05      As part of its efforts to mobilize additional local currency funds,
BAPINDO floated its first bond issue in 1983, with a nominal value of
Rp 25 billion and terms of 5 years at interest rate of 15.5% p.a. The amount
was relatively small (about 4% of BAPINDO's total resource requirements for
1983-85) since BAPINDO will have to bear a negative spread given the current
interest rate structure in Indonesia. The basic objective of the bond issue
is to enable BAPINDO to start diversifying its local currency resource base,
and thus acquire experience in raising its own funds, in preparation for a
larger resource mobilization e&fort, if and when the Government relaxes its
interest rate policy, making it feasible for financial institutions to borrow
more extensively from the market. Under these circumstances, BAPINDO plans to
blend the funds generated from this issue with those obtained from Government
sources at cheaper rates.
Projected Financial Position and Financial Results
4.06      Projected balance sheets for 1983-87 and selected ratios given in
Annex 7, Tables 3 and 4 show continued strengthening of BAPINDO's financial
position in the future. BAPINDO's total assets show an increase from
Rp 658 billion ($940 million) in 1982 to Rp 1,515 billion ($2.2 billion) in
1987. However, due to the projected slow-down in the growth of operations,
the annual growth rate in assets will decline from 55% in 1982 to 24% in 1984
and 6% in 1987. Loans and equity investments as a percentage of total assets
are expected to continue to increase from 88% in 1982 to 90% in 1987. As in
the past, a large portion of BAPINDO's asset growth will be financed through
additional long-term borrowings. However, there will also be a continued
growth in net worth due to additional capital contributed by the Government
and retained earnings, which would enable BAPINDO to keep its long-term
debt/equity ratio within the newly agreed limit of 6:1./1 The current ratio
is also satisfactory ranging between 1.5 (1984) and 1.2 (1987).
4.07      Projected income statements for 1983-87 and selected ratios of
performance are given in Annex 7, Tables 2 and 4./2 BAPINDO's income projec-
tions are based on fairly conservative assumptions. Average income on loan
portfolio is projected at 12.5% p.a. against an actual yield of 13.8% in
1982. On the other hand, cost of term debt, the largest source of financing,
is assumed to rise gradually from (7.3% (actual) in 1982, 7.4% in 1984 and
7.9% in 1987) even though BAPINDO is most likely to continue to have access to
/1 BAPINDO would need additional equity capital of Rp 4.9 billion by 1984
to maintain this ratio after the devaluation.
/2 The increase in the size of the projected loan portfolio after the
devaluation is estimated to offset the marginal decrease in BAPINDO's
spread on its lending program for 1983-85. Consequently, the
profitability in absolute terms is projected to increase slightly.



- 31 -
cheaper funds from official sources. Administrative expenses are projected to
increase by about 24% in 1983 and 27% in 1984 as a result mainly of the
opening of new branches, staff increases and expenses to be incurred in
respect of the technical assistance program under the project. In subsequent
years, due to the favorable impact of the proposed Action Program, there
should be economies in BAPINDO's overheads. Therefore, the projections assume
slower annual increases in administrative expenses in 1985-87. Administrative
expenses as a percentage of average total assets show a decline from 2.5% in
1982 (actual) to 2.1% in 1983-86 and 2.2% in 1987. Adequate provisions for
possible losses have been made. Despite these conservative assumptions,
BAPINDO-s presently low profitability is expected to improve substantially in
the next few years. Net profit is projected to increase from Rp 7.0 billion
9 in 1982 to Rp 11.1 billion in 1984 and Rp 24.9 billion in 1987, at an average
growth rate of 29% p.a. This growth in profitability is due to an expansion
in portfolio and oSher income generating assets. However, net profit as a
percentage of average total assets (1.0-1.7%) will remain lower than the
actual ratio of 1982 (1.3%) until 1984 after which it is expected to reach
1.7% by 1987. Net profit on average equity shows an increase from 7.3% in
1982 to 8.5% in 1984 and 12.3% in 1987. However, BAPINDO's profitability
would be adversely affected if BAPINDO's portfolio quality deteriorates in a
way which is not presently foreseen and in this event larger provisions would
have to be made at the end of each year. The strengthening of BAPINDO's
appraisal and supervision capability under the Action Program reduces the
likelihood that such a trend would actually occur.
V. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Loan Components
5.01      The proposed Bank loan of $208.9 million (including a capitalized
front-end fee of $0.5 million) would be made to the Government (the Borrower).
The Government would onlend $203.3 million (including the corresponding
front-end fee of $0.5 million) to BAPINDO under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the signing of which would be a condition of loan effectiveness. BAPINDO
would use $200 million for financing (a) industrial projects, and (b) ships
whose aggregate would not exceed $60 million, or 30% of the credit component.
The balance of $2.8 million would be used by BAPINDO to finance technical
assistance for two years (1983/84-1984/85) including: (a) a top level advisor
and a management consulting team of four experts (para. 2.17) for 24 months at
an average cost of $12,500 per man-month, totalling $1.5 million; (b) overseas
study tours for 100 staff (para. 2.10) at a cost of $10,000 per person,
totalling $1,000,000; and (c) purchase of specialized training equipment at
$300,000 (para. 2.10). The portion ($5.6 million including the corresponding
front-end fee) which is not onlent to BAPINDO would be used by the Government
for technical assistance for sectoral policy and project studies and overseas
training of selected Government officials (para. 1.08). In addition to financing
the detailed engineering for export zones and estates, this component would
cover the cost of policy and subsector studies, such as textiles, cement,
wood-processing and steel. Other studies would be identified later; there-
fore, detailed costing of this work is not yet possible. However, in view of



- 32 -
the cost of other subsector studies already underway, the $5.6 million
proposal is reasonable. In view of its central decision-making role, the
Ministry of Finance would be primarily responsible for administering this
technical assistance component and designating the appropriate executing
agencies and allocating the Bank and any necessary counterpart funds to the
respective agencies as a budgetary contribution. The funds would be used to
cover the cost of consultants, who would be recruited by the executing
agencies in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Terms of reference and the
selection of the consultants would be subject to prior approval of the Bank.
A selected number of Government officials from the designated agencies may
also avail of these funds for short-term overseas training/study tours.
Loan Features
5.02      Relending Rates.  The Government will relend $203.3 million
(including the front-end fee) of the proposed loan to BAPINDO at an interest
rate not to exceed 11.0% p.a., thus bearing the risk on any possible interest
rate fluctuation on the Bank loan. The front-end fee would be capitalized and
passed on to BAPINDO. In relending the $200 million of the loan proceeds,
BAPINDO will charge interest at rates between 10.5% and 13.5% p.a. depending
on loan size (Annex 5, Table 1), but the great bulk of its subloans will bear
interest at 13.5% p.a. giving BAPINDO a spread of approximately 2.5% on Bank
funds. This spread, together with the spread on Government funds, would give
BAPINDO an overall margin of about 6% for 1983-85 which is adequate. The
interest rate payable to the Government by BAPINDO on the proposed loan will
be specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be signed between the
Government and BAPINDO as a condition of loan effectiveness. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk on the entire loan.
5.03      Amortization Schedule.  As usual with Bank loans to DFCs, the
portion of the loan proceeds that would finance the credit component of the
project would have a flexible amortization schedule conforming substantially
to the aggregate repayment schedules of BAPINDO's subloans, the maximum term
for which would be 15 years, including two year's grace. For the repayment of
technical assistance funds provided both for the Government and BAPINDO, the
prevailing country terms of 20 years, including 5 years grace period will be
applied.
5.04      Free Limit.  BAPINDO-s appraisal capability and procedures have
continually improved under previous Bank loans as noted above. Further
improvement is expected under the proposed project as training in project
evaluation and streamlining of procedures are accelerated. Therefore it has
been agreed to raise the free limit under the proposed loan to $2.0 million
($1.2 million under the previous Bank loan), with an aggregate free limit of
$80 million or 40% of the loan proceeds earmarked for the credit component of
the proposed project. With this free limit, it is estimated that 25-30
subprojects accounting for about 40% of the number and 60% of the proposed
loan will require Bank review prior to approval. This should be sufficient
for the purpose of effective subproject monitoring by the Bank.



- 33 -
5.05      Subloan Ceilings.  To ensure that the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be spread out over a relatively large number of medium- and large-scale
projects, a ceiling of $6 million (compared with $3 million under the previous
Bank loan) would be set on the size of individual subloans financed out of the
loan proceeds. This increase is based on the increasing size due to inflation
of BAPINDO's operations and is in line with its emphasis on resource-based
industries which would normally require large investments.
5.06      Debt/Equity Limit.  To maintain BAPINDO's long-term debt/equity
ratio within the new limit of 6:1 (para. 3.17), the Government will have to
provide additional equity capital to BAPINDO estimated at Rp 30 billion during
the period 1983/84 to 1985/86. The Government haseagreed to provide
additional equity by converting Rp 30 billion of BAPINDO's outstanding debt to
the Ministry of Finance into paid-in capital./l
5.07      Procurement.  BAPINDO requires that all subborrowers of investment
loans obtain three price quotations from suppliers/contractors, which are then
analyzed by project staff to ensure that goods and services obtained are
procured at competitive prices. Given the increasing size of individual
contracts to be financed under the proposed Bank loan, all individual
contracts (except those on used ships) of $5 million and above to be financed
under the Bank loan will be awarded after international competitive bidding
(ICB). BAPINDO would review bid documents and subborrower's evaluation
thereof and submit them to the Bank for comments. The proposal to award would
be subject to review and approval by the Bank. In the event that ICB
procedures were not followed for such contracts because of the need for
equipment standardization or other reasons, BAPINDO would provide a full
justification of the procurement method used in its subproject appraisal
report which would be subject to Bank approval before authorization of
disbursement under the loan. This new procurement policy has been incorpo-
rated in BAPINDOs revised Policy Statement. Consultant services and other
technical assistance would be provided under the project in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants under World Bank loans and
IDA credits. Terms of reference and the appointment of consultants would be
subject to prior Bank approval. Procurement of training materials and
devices, most of which would be obtained in small quantities through local
suppliers or representatives of foreign suppliers, would be based on BAPINDO's
procedures which provide for adequate competition and are acceptable to the
Bank.
5.08      Disbursement.  Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed
against: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported goods;
(b) 60% of the invoice price of domestically procured capital goods which is
equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of those goods; (c) 50% of
/1 Due to the increase in the long-term liabilities of BAPINDO as a result
of the recent devaluation, BAPINDO would need additional equity
capital of Rp 4.9 billion by 1984 to maintain its long-term debt/equity
ratio within 6:1.



- 34 -
the cost equivalent to the estimated foreign cost component of civil works;
and (d) 100% of the expenditures of consultants and overseas training included
under the project. Proceeds of the proposed loan allocated for the credit
component are estimated to be fully committed in two years from mid-1983.
Funds allocated for technical assistance components executed by BAPINDO and
the Ministry of Finance would be committed by June 1986. Retroactive finan-
cing for an amount not to exceed $400,000 would be provided for expenditures
made after March 1, 1983 on policy and feasibility studies related to export
development, in order to allow GOI to move quickly to initiate these studies.
Disbursement of the loan proceeds is expected to be completed by June 30,
1988. This disbursement pattern is based on BAPINDO-s experience under
previous Bank loans and roughly corresponds to the disbursement pattern of DFC
loans in East Asia (Annex 7, Table 6).
Project Benefits and Risks
5.09       The proposed project would support the ongoing dialogue on specific
policy reforms in the financial and industrial sectors, which would be
facilitated by the funds for additional technical assistance for policy
studies proposed under the loan. The project would deepen institution-
building efforts designed to develop sound investments in the industrial
sector and improve the operational efficiency of BAPINDO, a major source of
term funds for the industrial sector. The project would also strengthen the
institutional support for RDBs and thus contribute to the development of
financial institutions in the regions. The proposed loan is being extended to
Indonesia at a time when access to foreign exchange resources for the private
sector is becoming more difficult. Based on past experience, the industrial
and maritime subprojects are expected to have high financial and economic
returns and thus contribute substantially to Indonesia-s further development
(para. 1.26). It is estimated that about 18,000 full-time jobs would be
created by the subprojects under the proposed loan, at an average cost per job
of $46,000. The average cost per job created is still high because of
BAPINDO-s continued support for resource-based projects. Small and medium
industries will continue to receive substantial support from BAPINDO and other
financial institutions, provided under the Government KIK/KMKP program. There
are essentially two risks associated with this project. First, BAPINDO could
resume a rapid expansion of its operations program before the completion of
the extensive staff upgrading and institutional reforms envisaged under the
project over the next two years. Second, given the tightening budgetary
resource position, public pressure on BAPINDO to undertake large public sector
projects could mount over the next two years and could jeopardize the quality
of its portfolio and the level of assistance provided to the private sector.
The risks are minimized by the fact that the Government has endorsed BAPINDO's
Development Strategy for 1983-85, which would specify the rate of growth of
lending and equity investments which would be subject to the Bank's annual
review (para. 4.04) during that period. The expansion of the provisions of
"Managed Funds" (para. 3.12) to include all projects sponsored by the
Government, combined with the application of BAPINDO-s normal appraisal proce-
dures for all large Government projects presented for financing should further
help BAPINDO to undertake only sound investments. Therefore, the risks
associated with the project are minimal.



- 35 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  BAPINDOTs Policy Statement and Development Strategy Statement
would not be amended except in agreement with the Bank
(paras. 2.03 and 2.13).
(ii) BAPINDO would appoint the senior advisor and consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank, by September 30, 1983 (para. 2.17);
(iii)  GOI would provide necessary funds to support BAPINDO's
projected operations for 1983-85 and GOI would discuss with
the Bank each BAPINDO fiscal year the level, timing and manner
of the financial support to he provided by GOI, Bank Indonesia
and other sources to BAPINDO for the following fiscal year,
taking into account BAPINDO's profitabilitv, development
strategy and lending program (para. 4.04);
(iv)  GOI would make the required equity contribution to BAPINDO to
maintain BAPINDO's long-term debt/equity ratio at 6:1
(para. 5.06);
(v)  individual contracts (except those on used ships) of more
than $5 million to he financed by BAPINDO under the proposed
loan be awarded after international competitive bidding
(para. 5.07); and
(vi)  GOI would allocate $5.6 million under the proposed loan to
designated executing agencies as budgetary transfers for
financing sectoral policy studies, project preparation
and training (paras. 1.08 and 5.01).
6.02      The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
between GOI and BAPINDO (para. 5.01) would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
6.03     Wlith the above agreements and conditions the proposed proiect would
be suitable for a Bank loan of $208.9 million (including a front-end fee of
$0.5 million).



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Structure of Interest Rates, as of December 31, 1982
(in %)
Lending
Proportion       BI       rate to
of BI    rediscount    final
Credits (by category and purpose)                                       financing       rate       borrower
(i) Short-Term Credits
Group I  : Working capital for BUUD/KUD for procure-
ment and distribution of rice and maize                  100           3            9
Group II    1. BIMAS/INMAS rice & secondary crops                     100           3           12
2. BWUUD/KUD/P.N. Garam for collection and
distribution of salt and working                                  4          12
capital for P.N. Garam                               75           4          12
3. Working capital for flour mills                        75           4           12
4. Export and exporting producers                         75           4           12
5. Production, import and distribution of
fertilizer                                           75           4          12
6. Import and distribution of nonfood items
under foreign aid                                    75           4          12
7. Working capital for BUUD/KUD and coop-
eratives for collection and distribu-
tion of agricultural products, live-
stock and fish                                       75           4          12
8. Working capital for smallholder, agriculture
and cottage handicrafts                              75
9. Working capital for livestock, poultry
and fisheries                                        75           4          12
Group III:  1. Working capital for rice mills/hullers,
sugar, coconut oil, textiles, agricul-
tural equipment, paper, cement, public
transportation, printing and publishing,
and tourism                                          70           6        13.5
2. Working capital for other production                   70           6         13.5
3. Import and distribution of controlled goods            70           6         13.5
4. Sugar stock financing                                  70           6         13.5
5. Domestic (including interinsular trade)                70           6        13.5
6. Working capital for contractors for DIP/
INPRES projects financed out of regional
governments' budgets and for low cost
housing                                              70           6        13.5
Group IV    Working capital for contractors for projects
other than those specified in III.6                       60           6           15
Group V  : Import and distribution of imported goods
not covered in II.5, II.6 and III.3                       40           6           18
Group VI : Export Credits:
1. Activities classified as preshipment                   60           3            6
2. Activities classified as postshipment                  60           3            6
3. Strong export commodities                              60           3            9
Group VII:  All other short-term credits                               25           6           21



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Lending
Proportion       RI        rate to
of BI    rediscount    final
Credits (by category and purpose)                                          financing      rate       borro.4ev
(ii) Medium/Long-Term Credits
Fixed assets financing (KIB):
Up to Rp 75 million                                                 80            3          10.5
Rp 75-200 million                                                   75            4          12.0
Rp 200-500 million                                                  65            4          13.5
Above Rp 500 million                                                 65           4          13.5
(iii) Credits to Small-Scale Enterprises
Fixed asset financing (KIK)                                           80            3          10.5
Permanent working capital financing (KMKP)                             75           4          12.0
Deposit        Interest rate
Deposits                                                                     rate       subsidy on deposits /a
Time deposits:  24 months:                                                               4.5
For the first Rp 2.5 million                        15               1.5
On balance exceeding Rp 2.5 million                 12
12 months                                               9
6 months                                               6
Demand deposits:  Less than Rp 1 million                                  -
Rp 1 - 50 million                                   1.8
More than Rp 50 million                               3
Call money (based on daily money market transactions)                   17-18
Tabanas (National Development Savings Schemes):
For the first Rp 200,000                                     15
On balance exceeding Rp 200,000                               6
Certificates of deposit:   I month                                    3.0 - 7.5
3 months                                3.0 - 9.5
6 months                                4.25-10.5
9 months                                    4.75
12 months                                5.25-12.0
/a Since deposit rates are fixed by BI, an interest subsidy is provided to increase the spread arising
out of the 24 month deposits and the average lending rates.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 38 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Policy Statement /1
As a Government-owned development bank, BAPINDO was established for
the following objectives:
(a) The provision of financial and nonfinancial assistance to
projects ift the following sectors:  industry, tourism and,
hotel, land transportation and maritime. In financing those
projects, BAPINDO will be continuously guided by the
principle of equitable distribution of business opportunities,
geographic distribution of development and enhancement of
the role of the economically-disadvantaged group in the
economy.
(b) Mobilization of funds and development of the capital market
together with the distribution of corporate shares to the
public.
(c) Development of the Regional Development Banks as development
financial institutions for the regions.
To attain the above objectives, BAPINDO deems it is necessary to revise its
existing corporate policy. This policy provides general guidelines in the
implementation of its mission as a development bank as stipulated in its
charter. This corporate policy consists of the following:
I. INVESTMENT POLICY
1.        BAPINDO will only finance priority projects within the context of
the national economic development. Those projects may be new or existing
ones which need rehabilitation, expansion or modernization.
2.        BAPINDO will only finance projects that will contribute to the
national economic development by the following means: foreign exchange
earnings and savings; generation of employment opportunities; and generation
of high financial and economic benefits. In order to ensure this, all
projects will be analyzed comprehensively and in depth. BAPINDO will continue
to apply its normal appraisal procedures to all projects presented to it for
financing and accept only those projects that meet its established economic,
financial and technical criteria.
/1 Approved by the Board of Managing Directors and submitted to the Bank on
March 14, 1983.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
3.        BAPINDO will give special considerations for projects in under-
developed regions, and those that will equalize business ownership and
develop the capital market.
4.        Essentially, BAPINDO will only extend the following forms of
financing:
(a) Investment loan with or without working capital loan;
(b) Working capital loan only, to previous recipients of investment
loan; and         
(c) Equity participation, within the context of indigenization and
improvement of capital structure.
5.        BAPINDO will continue to finance small-scale industries.
Gradually this function will be transferred to the Regional Development
Banks.
6.        BAPINDO will be governed by the following self-imposed limits in
its financing operations:
(a) Total equity participation of BAPINDO in all its clients will
not exceed its net worth;
(b) Total equity participation of BAPINDO in any single enterprise
will neither exceed 10% of BAPINDO's net worth, nor 25% of the
enterprises total equity; and
(c) Total financial assistance of BAPINDO to any single enterprise,
whether loan and/or equity, will not exceed 20% of BAPINDO's
net worth.
7.        Basically, BAPINDO will emphasize the project's feasibility and
viability in its evaluation. However, adequate collateral will be required
from the projects, in accordance with prudent banking practice.
8.         BAPINDO will not maintain a controlling interest in an assisted
enterprise. However, in certain cases, BAPINDO will take appropriate
measures as necessary to safeguard its own interest and that of the nation.
9.         BAPINDO will require its borrowers to purchase their capital goods
in accordance with its established procurement guidelines. In addition,
individual contracts (except those on used ships) of $5.0 million and above to
be financed under the World Bank loan (BAPIND V), or other financial sources
if it is required, will be awarded after international competitive bidding.
10.       BAPINDO will also serve as an administrator of Government funds
being channelled to Government-sponsored projects. As a conduit of such
funds BAPINDO will not carry any risk and will be paid a management fee. To



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
facilitate this provision, BAPINDO and the Government would follow an agreed
procedure.
II. FINANCIAL POLICY
1.        BAPINDO will continue to mobilize long term funds for its
operations and will maintain a long-term DER of 6:1.
2.        BAPINDO will take all necessary measures to ensure that its current
ratio is at all times maintained at a minimum level of 1.15:1.
3.        BAPINDO will not bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks
in all its foreign borrowings.
4.        In the performance of its operations, BAPINDO shall impose
adequate fees and charges, in order to maintain the necessary reserves and
strengthen its financial condition.
III. ORGANIZATIONAL POLICY
BAPINDO will continue to develop and maintain "an effective organization"
through the following:
(a) Human resource development, including the recruitment, intensive
training, evaluation, transfer and promotion and improvement of
the professional quality of its staff;
(b) Provision of adequate facilities, effective systems and
procedures and good working environment; and
(c) Setting up of an appropriate unit to give technical assistance
to the Regional Development Banks and BAPINDO½s borrowers,
including the adoption of modern management techniques and
practices.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 41 -
Attachment to
ANNEX 2
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Procedures for Administering the Managed Funds Provision
of the Policy Statement
1.        When deciding the justification for financing projects which GOI
conside&rs of national importance but which are not covered under BAPINDO's
normal investment policy as specified in Article 1 of the Policy Statement,
BAPINDO's President Director would call a joint meeting of the Supervisory
Board and the Board of Managing Directors to decide on an appropriate course
of action. Among the options open to the joint meeting are:
(a)  to reject the loan application on the basis of BAPINDO's
staff evaluation and inform the project sponsors and the
concerned GOI agency accordingly;
(b) to request project sponsors to scale down, redesign
the project or propose alternative financing plan/
capital structure so that the project could meet
BAPINDO's normal investment criteria; and
(c) to finance the project under the Managed Fund mechanism
as specified in Article I.10 of BAPINDO's Policy Statement.
2.        Should the joint session decide to use Managed Funds to finance the
project in question, the primary justification for this decision and the
amount and sources of financing total project costs (including self-financing
by the project sponsors) will be recorded in a separate memorandum of under-
standing to be signed by the President Director of BAPINDO and the two
members of the Supervisory Board acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance
and the Governor of Bank Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



ANNEX 3
- 42 -                          Page 1 of 3
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Development Strategy of BAPINDO, 1983-1985 /1
I. CREDIT
1.        BAPINDO will focus its lending on projects in the,,following
sectors/industries:
(a) food and beverages;
(b) textile;
(c) wood and wood products, especially furnitures and rattan;
(d) paper;
(e) rubber processing;
(f) metals, especially machineries and fabrication;
(g) construction, especially oil-drilling;
(h) hotels;
(i) land transportation; and
(j) maritime.
2.      BAPINDO will make effort to achieve its operations according to the
projected operations subject to government s policy. It is estimated that
total loan approvals for 1983, 1984, and 1985 are expected to reach
Rp 178 billion, Rp 200 billion, and Rp 225 billion, respectively.
3.        BAPINDO will increase its credit operations outside Java so that
their proportion of the total can reach 47% in 1985. (In 1982, projects
outside Java comprised 44%.)
4.        Loan syndication will increasingly be used in the credit
operations.
/1 Approved by the Board of Managing Directors and submitted to the Bank on
March 14, 1982.



ANNEX 3
- 43 -                          Page 2 of 3
11. EQUITY FINANCING AND CAPITAL MARKET OPERATIONS
5.        BAPINDO will continuously participate in the capitalization of
strategic projects, with the objectives of improving their capital structure
and financial condition, as well as the indigenization of enterprises.
Indigenization will be achieved through the direct sale of BAPINDO's shares to
indigenous groups and through the public sale of shares in the stock exchange.
6.        BAPINDO will continously participate in the capital market in an
active and selective manner. Among its projected activities in this area are
the underwriting of securities, bond issuance, acting as agent and trader in
the stock market, and such other institutional activities as trusteeship.
III. FUND MOBILIZATION
7.        BAPINDO will mobilize rupiah funds through additional capital
infusion from the government, maximization of borrowings from Bank Indonesia,
generation of deposits from the public and financial institutions, and bond
offerings.
8.        Foreign currency mobilization will be done through additional
borrowings from international financial institutions and if possible other
foreign sources, loan syndication for large projects together with foreign
banks and export credit institutions.
IV. RESEARCH ACTIVITIES IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
9.        Research activities in the industrial sector will focus on the
following:
(a) Export-oriented industries, consisting of food processing,
ready-made clothing, leather processing, wood processing, and
home furnishings;
(b) Priority industries in the Fourth Development Plan Period,
consisting of agro-based industries, basic chemicals, metals,
machineries, and fabrication; and
(c) Industries that utilize local raw materials, produce import
substitutes, expand or create employment opportunities, and
those located outside Java.
V. PROJECT PROMOTION
10.       BAPINDO will actively promote and develop medium-scale projects in
the manufacturing and agro-based industries, together with the identification
and nurturing of indigenous entrepreneurs outside Java.



ANNEX 3
- 44 -                          Page 3 of 3
VI. COOPERATION WITH REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
11.       BAPINDO will continue to cooperate with and assist the regional
development banks in terms of financial assistance for loans up to Rp 75 mil-
lion per project, and technical assistance through staff training to
accelerate their institutional development.
VII. INTERNAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
12.       To strengthen its internal operational procedures and staff capa-
bility during 1983-85 BAPINDO will implement a Program of Action relating to
management and organization, staff development and training, project appraisal
and supervision, branch operations and technical assistance to RDBs. To
assist in implementing the Program of Action in the above areas during the
period, BAPINDO will engage the services of a senior development banking
advisor and a management consulting firm.
13.       BAPINDO will conduct an annual review of the implementation of its
Action Program, in conjunction with the review of its operations, and suggest
changes as needed.
14.       To meet the manpower needs of its operational expansion, BAPINDO
will increase its personnel in line with its volume of operations. The ratio
between the operational and non-operational personnel will be maintained at
65:35.
15.       BAPINDO will improve the training of its personnel based on the
technical and managerial requirements of its operations as a development bank.
16.       In order to improve the information and communications system within
its organizational structure, as well as to utilize its human resources more
efficiently, BAPINDO will expand the process of computerization in the Head
Office and branches.
AEP Projects Department
March 31,1983



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
BAPINDO's Program of Action /1
(1983/84)
1. Management
(a) BAPINDO will accelerate cooperation and conduct more frequent dialogues
with important external groups, such as KADIN (Chamber of Commerce),
,-the technical ministries and other financial institutions.
Based on its experiences and linkages with those groups, BAPINDO will
explore later on the possibility of setting up an Advisory
Council which is most effective for BAPINDO.
(b) The Board of Directors will delegate more authority to the
Department Heads and Branch Managers.
2. Organization
(a) BAPINDO will minimize, as much as possible, the overlapping of
functions in some units and will improve communication and
coordination among them by reviewing and redefining their
functions.
(b) BAPINDO will enhance the effectiveness of the existing working
group in the Credit and Branch Supervision Department by giving
it more authority and responsibility. This will enable the group
to become a more effective partner of the branches to look after
their interests.
This group will also supervise the branches and monitor their
performance for management evaluation.
The long term structure and status of this group will be deter-
mined later, after a more careful organizational analysis.
(c) BAPINDO will reduce the membership of some of its existing com-
mittees, as follows:
- The Credit and Equity Financing Committee has already reduced
its composition from 14 to 7 core members.
- The Planning and Budgeting Committee will reduce its members
from 18 to only those directly concerned with planning and
budgeting.
/1 Timetable and implementation details (submitted to the Bank on
December 17, 1982) are in the Project File.



ANNEX 4
- 46 -                       Page 2 of 4
- The Computerization Committee which now has 19 members,
will reduce its membership.                                                 1
(d)  BAPINDO will strengthen the functional linkage between the
Research and Project Promotion Department.
The Project Promotion Department will transform the macro-
economic and sectoral studies of the Research Department into
project level studies for the needs of both the Head Office
and the branches.
3.  Staffing
(a)  BAPINDO will improve the proportion between the operational and
non-operational staff by conducting a systematic process of
personnel recruitment, training and reassignment.
(b)  In recruitment, BAPINDO will attract more professional staff into
the operating departments.
(c)  BAPINDO will strengthen its personnel management system, by
rationalizing the following:
- planning of manpower needs;
- recruitment;
- staff development and career planning;
- staff evaluation process based on productivity and efficiency;
and
- personnel motivation and incentives system.
4. Training
BAPINDO will review and improve its comprehensive long-term
training plan. This plan will be related to the personnel career plan.
To implement this plan, the in-house training capabilities of
BAPINDO will be upgraded. This will also enable BAPINDO to accelerate the
training of personnel from the branches. This training may be integrated
with that of RDB staff.
5. Management Information System (MIS)
(a) BAPINDO will improve and streamline its information system,
including its reporting forms and procedures, feedback and
internal control mechanism.



-47 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
Specifically, the reports will be made shorter, more analytical,
issue oriented and complemetary with each other.
(b)  BAPINDO is now setting-up an integrated computerization program,
which is aimed at, among others, speeding up the computer
utilization in the Head Office and branches.
6. Branches
(a)  BAPINDO will strengthen the integration of its existing branches
into the overall planning, staff,development and operational
review process.
(b)  BAPINDO will not open new branches until 1984.  The need for new
branches in the other regions will be reviewed after 1984.
7. Planning
BAPINDO will develop a planning process which will integrate,
among others, operations, resource mobilization, manpower, training and
computerization.
In order to implement this, the Planning Department will be
strengthened in terms of quantity and quality of staff.
8. Project Appraisal
(a) BAPINDO will review and improve the appraisal process through the
following:
- formulation of strict criteria for selecting projects to
be financed in 1983/84, taking into account Government's
credit lending policies and investment priorities and
BAPINDO's institutional capacity.
- reducing the duplication of efforts between the Head Office and
the branches and among the Departments;
- simplifying loan application procedures;
- shortening the appraisal reports; and
- reducing the waiting time of clients.
(b)  In order to reduce duplication and equalize the appraisal ability
between the branches and the Head Office, BAPINDO will limit the
appraisal function of the branches in terms of loan size and
sectors in accordance with their respective abilities.
(c) BAPINDO will set-up a group of industry specialists to facilitate
the inter-team exchange of experiences.



- 48 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
9. Supervision
(a) Project supervision will be improved with emphasis on preventive
supervision and direct counseling by using more experienced and
qualified staff.
Similarly, qualified staff will be used by the Special Debtors
Supervision Department.
(b) The supervision process, including the forms and frequency of the
monitoring report.s, will be simplified, streamlined and
consolidated.
(c) Coordination between the supervision activities of the Head
Office and branches will be improved such as through more frequent
visits, guidance and feedback.
10. RDB Consulting Group
As an integral part of the overall organization of BAPINDO, the
consultancy services will be strengthened through:
(a) upgrading of the technical and professional capabilities of its
staff;
(b) formulating more effective consulting techniques; and
(c)  undertaking a phased program of RDB upgrading with the possible
handling of some specific assignments by other institutions/
consultants.
11. Utilization of Outside Consultants
In the implementation of some of the above Program of Action,
BAPINDO will hire the services of appropriate and properly qualified
consultants in the areas of training and human resource development,
corporate/strategic planning, MIS and consultancy development.
AEP Projects Department
December 22, 1982



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
BAPINDO's Lending Rates and Other Charges as of December 31, 1982
(in %)
Interest on Loans                                                   Lending Rates
Domestic Currency Loans
Investment loans                                                   10.5-13.5/a
Working capital loans:
Industry and maritime                                              13.5
Export credit                                                     6.0-9.0
Raw cotton loans                                                     12.0
Small-scale industry loans:
Investment (KIK)                                                   10.5
Working capital (KMKP)                                             12.0
Kelayakan loans:
Investment                                                         10.5
Working capital                                                  12.5-13.5
Kepres 14 A loans:
Investment                                                       10.5-12.0
Working capital                                                  12.0-13.5
Foreign Currency Loans                  Interest Spread               Rates
IDA Credit No. 310 - IND               3.25                        10.5-13.5
IDA Credit No. 318 - IND               3.25; 4                       9.25
IBRD Loan iNo. 1054 - IND              2.5;  4                     10.5-13.5
IBRD Loan No. 1437 - IND               2.3; 3.8; 4                 10.5-13.5
IBRD Loan No. 1703 - IND               2.6; 4                      10.5-13.5
KFW Loan No. AL. 74 65 750             4                           10.5-13.5
ADB Loan No. 319 - IND                 2.2; 3.7; 4                 10.5-13.5
Project Aid Loans                                                    12.0
Commitment Charges (on long & medium term loans)
Loans up to Rp 75 million                                              0.75
Loans between Rp 75-200 million                                        0.50
Loans above Rp 200 million                                             0.25
Penalty Charges
Investment loans                                                   10.5-13.5/a
Working capital loans                                                  6.75
Export credit loans                                                 6.0-9.0
/a Depending upon size of loan.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Summary of operations, January 1, 197a-December 31, l982
(Rp million)
1978                     1979                      1980                      1931                       1982
In                       In                        In                        In                           In
foreign                  foreign                   foreign                   foreign                      foreign
No.   Total  exchange  No.   Total  exchange  No.    Total  exchange  No.   Total  exchange    No.    Total.  exchange
Approvals
Long-Term Investment Loans
Industry                     48  12,785    6,707    66  34,866    9,787    76   54,936   27,792   109  222,222  100,522                96  368,255  222,273
Syndications /a               1      400         -    10  10,856          -    15   13,321           -    18   24,265          -        9   23,249
Subtotal               49  13,185    6,707    76  45,722    9,787    91   68,257   27,792   127  246,487  100,522               105  391,504  222,273
Maritime                      7   8,524    7,615        9   5,954    4,031    21   26,603   22,815    17   24,951    17,632            25   41,487   32,201
Total Investment Loans   56  21,709   14,322    85  51,676   13,818   112   94,860   50,607   144  271,438  118,154                 130  432,QQl  254,474
Working Capital Loans
Industry                     57   7,991          -    88  21,659        117    88   40,442      7,322    125   56,655      1,184      126   66,494        321
Maritime                      7   1,208          -      7   2,561         -      8    2,100          -    16    9,333          -       28    5,767          -
Total Working
Capital Loans            64   9,199         -    95  24,220         117    96   42,542    7,322   141   65,988    1,184           154   72,261        321
Kelayakan loans                  -       -         -      -        -        -    55    3,196           -   143    7,476          -      120    7,075           -
Kepres 14A loans                 -                                                55    1,899          -   366   10,330          -      792   27,437          -
KIK/KMKP loans                   -       -                -        -        -    66        150         -    99    1,028          -       91     1,666          -
Cofinancing with RDBs           11   2,876         -    11   2,039          -    12    3,739           -    13    6,230          -      n.a.   5,893          -
Equity investments               8   1,500         -      4   1,386         -    13   20,766           -    30   27,716          -       16   11,783           -
Total Approvals           139  35,284   14,322   195  79,321   13,935   409  167,152   57,929   936  390,206  119,338   1,303  559,106  254,795                      c
Commitments
Long-Term  Investment Loans
Industry                     33  14,015    7,126    61  35,790   14,319    77   46,613   20,936    88  170,875   43,163                96  377,785  117,287
Syndications /a               -        -         -     3      930         -      7    6,541          -     6    6,542          -        9    8,901
Subtotal               33  14,015    7,126    64  36,720   14,319    84   53,154   20,936    94  177,417   43,163              105  386,636  117,287
Maritime                      4   3,641      3,450    11  11,802   10,912    18   22,814   18,866    13   25,051    19,438             19   30,186   22,353
Total Investment Loans   37  17,656   10,576    75  48,522   25,231   102   75,968   39,802   107  202,468   62,601                 124  416,872  130,645
Working Capital Loans
Industry                     45   7,551          -    33  21,563          -    84   30,815           -   104   44,179   1,184         128   66,922
Maritime                       7   1,193         -      7   2,501         -      8    2,100          -    11    6,813         -        25    7,684
Total Working
Capital Loans            52   8,744         -    90  24,064           -    92   32,915          -   115   50,992           -      153   74,606 
Kelayakan loans                  -       -         -      -       -         -    46    2,662           -   122    6,342          -      115    6,685           -
Kepres 14A loans                -        -         -      -        -        -    48    1,535           -   370   10,694           -     790   27,392           -
KIK/KMKP loans                   -       -         -      -       -         -    66        150         -    99    1,028          -       91     1,666          -
Cofinancing with RDBs          11   2,876          -    11   2,039          -    12    3,516           -    13    6,136          -      n.a.   5,613           -
Equity investments               7   1,510         -      4   1,600         -      9    3,050          -    23   23,654          -       18   13,765          -
Total Commitments         107  30,786   10,576   180  76,225   25,231   375  119,796   39,802   849  301,314   63,785   1,291  546,509  139,645
0



1978                     1979                       1980                      1981                   1982
In                       In                         In                        In
foreign                  foreign                    foreign                   foreign
No.   Total  exchange  No.   Total  exchange  No.    Total  exchange  No.   Total  exchange   No.    Total
Disbursements
Long-Term Investment Loans
Industry                     -   21,886    4,173    -   32,340    7,936    -    29,085   10,564             -   75,921    34,426        -    163,841
Syndications /a              -         -         -    -        450         -    -      4,292          -     -    9,309           -      -      15,327
Subtotal                -   21,886    4,173    -   32,790    7,936    -    33,377    10,564            -   85,230   34,426        -    179,168
Maritime                     -    4,800    3,672    -   10,301    9,474    -    19,580   17,439              -   25,609    22,192       -      29,457
Total Investment Loans    -   26,686        7,845    -   43,091   17,410    -    52,957   28,003            -  110,839    56,618       -    208,625
Working Capital Loans
Industry                     -    6,700          -    -   20,482           -    -    23,424       2,650     -   37,963    4,506         -      42,626
Maritime                     -    1,200          -    -    2,714           -    -       1,814         -      -    7,189          -      -       7,098
Total Working
Capital Loans             -    7,900          -    -   23,196           -    -    25,238      2,650      -   45,152      4,506       -     49,724
Kelayakan loans                 -         -         -    -         -         -    -       1,805         -      -    6,170          -      -       7,123
Kepres 14A loans                -         -         -    -         -         -    -       1,514         -      -    9,719          -      -      26,614
KIK/KMKP loans                  -         -         -    -         -         -    -         127         -      -       980         -      -       1,689
Cofinancing with RDBs           -    3,200          -    -    1,914          -    -       3,582         -      -     5,911         -      -       6,664
Equity Investments              -       300         -    -       394         -    -       2,114         -      -   23,642          -      -      13,790
Total  Disbursements        -   38,086    7,845            68,595   17,410    -    87,337    30,653         -  202,413   61,124        -    314,229
/a  BAPINDOs syndications with other banks are for industrial long-term financing.                                                                                a -
AEP Projects Department                                                                                                                                            °
March 31, 1983



- 52 -
ANNEX S
Table 
8AN0 PEOI8AGUN8AN I900NE0IA
Cbrcoloo    f Ondastrlal Loans Co-ttted, 1978-82 La
(Rp sllito)
1978                          1979                          1980                         1911982
No.         Amoant            N.                            in.t H.  I    Amount   N      No,.        Aoun              F.o,         mon
Nature of Projects
N..                             12    14    2,110    10    23    15    9,680    17    48    29   30,224    39    20    10   3,,168                15    62    28   319,942    72
topaoaiot              ~~~ ~~~74    86   19,436    90   121    85   47,673    83   115    71   47.204    81   172    90 161,885    85   162    72   125,765    28
Total   ~ ~ ~~~L    LO2156 100   144   100   5735   108   163  120   77L428  100   192  100 215,0254   100224100   444,707   100
Status ofBuror
Prlotenetur                     67    87   11,477    58   127    86   35,4 56    63   153    94   59,429    77   170   88 ll2 .779    41   212    42   39 0, 25                  08
IuhlTooefu                      10    13    9,089    42    17    12   21,397    37    10            6   17,999    23    22    12   83,275    39    12           6    54,449    12
Tons'                      77  100   2156100  144   100   1733                  00   163  100   7748 100   192   1OO0215 054   100  224   103   444,77   100
lice (Op illito)
Up to      40                 11    29       231       2     7    12       188      1      8     9       142      -      8     9       214      -            5        122      -
41-      1207    19                         377      3     6    26    1567         4191   23    1,352            3    16    18    1,180        1    10    10         864 
121 -     200                  1     3       161      1      8    13    1,291       3    11    13    1,873        4     9    10    1,444        1    14    11      2,337       1
201-    400                    9    24    2,671    19        7    11    1,540       4    15    13    2,693        6    13     15    3,629       2    11    11      3,240       1
401 -     800                  5    14    2,470    17    12    20    7,816    22    16    21    9, 003    19    12    14            64,921      4    12    13      8,239       2
800-  2,000                    1     3    1,809    13        5     8    6,314    18        9    10   10,303    22    13    13 17,164    10    18    19    24,248               6
loo    2.000                   3     8    8,296    45        6    10   17, 084    48       5     7  71,7353    46    17    19 110,319    82    26    27   338,721    90
Subtotal                   37  100   14,013   100    61  100   35,790   100    77  120   46,613   100    98   120 170,873   100    96   100   377,283   100
SoA-ge  slo   of loot                        3798                          56 6. 7                       603.4                       t,04lS                         3,9 30. 1
W-rklog CapItl1 Lots-
Up to   40                   10    31        305      5    19    23        341      2    17    20        250      1    18    17        261      1    13    10         278      -
41-120                      16    33    1, 443    19    17    21    1,282          6    22    26    1,733        6    17    16    1,338        3    20    16      1,600       3
121 -200                       9    18    1,49    2        14    17    2,291    11    12    14    1,915           6    121   122   1,942        4    21    16      3,68        0
201 -400                       4     8    1004       13    20    24    6,367    29       15    17    4,387    14    2         22    6,511    1       22    17      8838    10
401- 800                       4     8    2,305'   31       8      9    4,788    22    10    15    7,808    25    22    21   12,854    29    23    20    10,993    17
Coo    800                     1.    2      ,1,51    13      5     6    6,514    300       7     8   14,712    40    12    12   21,273    48    27    21    43,563    65
SuSootal            49100                 100    83   10   23,5632100    B6  100   30,15   102  134   100   44t179  100   128   100    66, 922   100
Ao....gosa  o- f laso                        154.1                         259.8                         358.3                         424.8                          522.8
Under  2.0                     1     3        305     -      3     5       187      1      2     3        93      -     -      -         -      -     2      2         43      -
2.0 -3.9                     4    11        344      4     6    10        634      2    15    10    4,350       9      7     8     1,352       1    12    13      3,189       1
4.0 -5.9                      5    10       408      1    13    25    6,43118    201   27    3,051              7    20    23   14,564        8    22    23    19,733         5
6.0-  7.9                     6    lb    1,282       9    03    21    6,21       17     17    22    6,482    14    26       2    2,010    18o        2    27    25,262 
8.0-9.9                     11    30    6, 593    47       8     10    3,177       9     I10    13    6,370    I4   19    22   31,855    19    19    20    68,723    18
10,0    or10    27    5,136    37    16    26   19,130    533                            17    22   25,963    56    16    18  92,294    54    15    15  260,813    68
SoScotal           37   100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  N10  61  100   1579    00    77   100 4661    100    88   100 170,873   100    96   100                  ,7 L     0
Velghtedao-eage
-by nubr7.8                                                               7.1                           7.1                           7.4                            6.9
-by a9ou                                     .2                           6,9                           9.1                           6.9                            8.9
Under   2.                     10    20       971    10    12    14    1,755          8    23    29    3, 261    17    30    28   14,422    32    29    23    12,810    19
2.0-  3.9                     6    12       777    10    17    21    2,737    13    11    13            963      3    12     11 :1,770         4    14    11      1, 7 33     3
4.0-5.9                     15     31    19358    26    20    24    5,230    24         19    22    4,713    15    23    22        9,87    21    37       29    12073    18
6.0- 7.8                      0    17    1320       18    21    25    3,383    25       16    19    5,479    18    29    28   14,801    34    21    16    11,2339    17
8.0 -9.                      6    12    1, 635    22       8    10    4,253    20        a8    9    4,334    14        7     7    2,913       7    10      8      6,214      9
10,0 4     - ar4                     8       800    11       5     6    2,203    10        7     8   10,063    33        3     3       866      7    17    13    22,751    04
Sabet.al                   49   100    75        100    83   100   21,563  100    86   100   38 15            00   134   100   44,179   100  128   10           1692       00
Wslghtod soorgo
- by namber                      ~~~~~ ~~~5.5                   3.3                           4,8                           4.6                            4.3
-  by aon                                   6.3                           6,3                           7.1                           4,7                            3,7
S-ctara Distribution
7l,ppr& prinolog          5     7    1,2150      5      7     5    3,038       3     9      6   9,902    13    12         6    2,253    14       4      2     2,613       1
T_atlo                           14    18    3,82    15    20    14    9,883    17    16    10    8,402    11    26    14   22,894    11    23    13    27,006                    6
Hotal  -ooka                     4      5    3,446    16    10        7    6,523    11    23    14  21,303    27    17            924, 584    11    33    15   183,293    41
Co.no,c.rt ic   ad
glass                          1     1    2,046    10        5     3    7,229    13        2     1       900      1    15      882,056         38    17      7    85,348    19
Obhosloals                        2     2        38      -     4      3    1,466       3     1      -       226     -    13       7    3,201       2     9      4    21,923       3
Pbse,saoeooloals         1~~~ 1          6      -      6     4       823      1      5     3    1,542       2    12      68      684      -      3     1      0,138      1
Rubber proesIn                    5     7    3,54526                         ,4       1                   ,7 5                        2 5,07       2    24    11    33,8264       8
HOto. Iudautries                26    34    4,208    20    51    35   11,939    21          57    33   19,893    26    54    28   63,396    30    83    37    69,346    15
T.t1                2~ _L51978-9 -          -     O       4  4932         86  _16           66,895    86   154      80 204,337    90   196   100   426,69           96
Land  tra..sp-tnaoiso             4     5    1,235       6    19    13    2,394        5    14      9    1,390       2     8      4    2,685       1    10      7     7,173       2
T _oiss                         15    20        548      2    18    13    5,243        9    33    20    9,175    12    30    16    8,032           4     3      6    10,841       2
Total7 P1OO  21O,566                                                          0      63 10 Z,,~10                  2 10   I.2            00  224   180  444 707   100
Nortb  usanrat                  11    14        926      4     8      5    4,196       7    18    11    3,246        4    15      883,730    40    13           4     5,541       1
South S...atra                   2      3       18             1      8    2,3         5     7      5    1,381       2    19    40    4,977        2    25    11      7,769       2
Wet Jaa26    34   10,43                                48    43    30   25,011    44       57    33   36,068    486      4      25   53,031    25    62    28   127,638    29
ConorolI In.s                   10    13    1,9          5    30    21    4,832        9    26    18    6,124        8    41    21    4,470        2    22    10    10,419        2
EastJars                        14    18    6,:B661'    32    28    19   12,567    21    28    17   17,822    23    43    22   10,977              5    19      9   148,9 55    34
Kallasat-                       10    13    1,467        7      7     5       614      1     7      4    1,542       2     8      447,406    22    30    13    54,692    12
Oulases I 4 Ololka                4     5       604      3    13      9    7,469    13    13        9   10,094    13    13        7    7,946       4    36    16    63,3906    14
Nusa to-r                        -      -         -      -      4     3       247      -     3      3    1, 101      2     5      3      498      -    20      9    26,367        6
Toosi       77   100              100   144~~~~~~~~~~~L 100     10    163   100   7748108   192   1OO 215,054   100  224   100   444,77   100
Ia  -ootaco   asd  -oking ouptiol1            ns    It doss.. so tInlude  aadioatt.ni..
407 Praje-ts Depurtue..o
Matob  31, 1983



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
TIa=b   4
INDONESIA
BANY PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Equity Investments Portfolio, as of December 31, 1982
(Rp million)
Approvals          Out-      Estimated    BAPINDO's         Operational statils
Na'me if company                 Industry             Year    Amount    standing  book value  shareholdings            of the company
(1o)
1. PT Bia l'saha Tndonesia    Consultant             1972        25.0)       50.0        50.6         1.6       Good prospect
1976        25.0)
2. PT PAXN                       Shipping             1974    3,200.0        800.0       840.3         4.1       Good prospect
3. PC Ravitex                   Textile               1974       285.0)      887.5      (365.7)      i0O.0       Nursing
1975       200.3)
1976       402.2)
4. PT Kehlun Bunga               Milk powder          1974        37.5        37. 5      201.5        12.5       Good prospect
5. PT Ra jin                    Steel tubes           1976        65.0        65.0       122.7         6.5       Good p rospect
6. Pr Bin.a 4gr  Swakarya        Sugar mill           1976       150.0)      160.0       160.0        20.0       To be liquildated
1980        10.0)
7. Pr Paica sinia Esa            Consulltant          1977        15.0)      120.0        96.4        17.1       Good prospect
1978        10.0)
1981       95.0)
3. Pr Eharutara Karva Aksaru  Printing                1978        73.0        73.0        54.9        11.7       Good prospect
9. Pt Bali Sanor Bangalow       iHotel                1978       167.1       167.1       220.9        23.2       Good prospect
lOPtl- Bhineka Lines            Shipping              1978      442.0        442.0       399.2        50.4       Good prospect
lI.PT Megah Ampi,h              Body car pressing  1979         221.0        221.0      (244.1)       23.0       Nulrsing
12.PT Polind                    Pepper oIl            1979       120.0)      158.0        68.2        25.0       Under construction
1982        38.0)        -           -           -         Commercial operation
1.PT Kalil,                    Corrugated bo-        1979       102.0)      165.0       162.0        30.1       Goodl prospect
1980         7.0)
1981        28.0)
1981        28.0)
l4.Pt Bakrle Pipe                Steel pipe          1979       945.0)   1,904.9    1,904.9           39.1       Under construction
Industrles                                      1980       57 5. 0)
1981      384.9)
15.PT Allied Pacific            Chemical              1980       141.5       141.5       141.5        15.0       Good prospect
Dyechem                                         1981       129.0
SI.PT Hamplas 'lot4ra           Abrasives             1980       200.0       200.0       197.0        20.0       Under constroction
17.PT Poransa  aktl             'otel                 1980         8.0         8.0         8.0        10.0       Nursing
13.PT ItCh                       Timber               1980    6,719.2)   8,979.9   10,845.5           60.0      G.ood pr.spect
1981    3,182.5)
19.PT Se-en Anadoalas Indo.    Cement                 1980    4,421.2    4,421.2    4,421.2            9.7       Under constructi-n
20.PT tSr                        Texttle              1980    2,961.0          -           -          16.7
21.PT Semen Kupang               Cement               1980       566.0)   4,200.0    4,200.0          43.8       Under construction
1981     1,834.0)
1981    1,800.0)
22.PT Indocarb                   Carbon black         1980       414.3)      677.8       677.8        15.0       Under constroctiom
1981        94.2)
1982       169.3)
23.PT Jpprindo Uta=a            Leather               1981       100.0)      175.0        80.7        24.3       Good prospect
1982        75.0)
24.PT Admiral Lines              Shipping             1981    1,042.0    1,042.0    1,414.9           17.6       Good prospect
25.PT Cisitu s                  Hotel                 1981        99.0        99.0       112.5        21.9       Good prospect
26.PT Sangkuiliraog             Timber                1981       554.4)      835.1       620.9        25.0       Good prospect
1982       280.7)
27.PT Inofcon                   Workshop              1981       355.0       355.0       607.8        10.0       Good prospect
28.PT Saraaa Bersama                                  1981       670.0       670.0       622.7        10.0       Under construction
Pembiayman Ind.
29.PT PPN Nusatenggara           Shipping             1981         1.5         1.5         1.5         0.3       bonus issoie
30.PT Maramin Jaya              liotel                1981       172.5       172.5       172.5        25.0       Under construction
31.PT doechst Cilegon Kimia   Textile                 1981    1,039.5    1,039.5    1,039.5           15.0       Under constrnction
32.PT Dehatex                   Textile               1981       602.0       602.0       608.0        18.2       Good prospect
33.PT Mutiara Kencana Murnil   Motel                  1981       105.0       105.0       112.1        19.0       Good prospect
34.PT Ferrotama Alloy Indo.   Silicon                 1981       700.0       700.0       700.0        17.2       Cnder construction
35.PT Marams City Hotel         Hotel                 1981       552.0       552.0       552.0        25.0       Under construction
36.PT Tirta Murni Indah         Soft drink            1981       372.5       372.5       372.5        24.8       Under construction
37.PT Krakatau RBbber           Rubber band           19b1   12,612.6          -           -          24.8
38.PT Eka Dura Indonesia        Palm oil              1981       115.0)      337.0       387.0        25.0       Under constriction
1981       232.0)
39.PT Mega Concrete              Concrete blocks    1981         180.0       180.0       180.0        25.0       Under construction
40.PT Karya Celcon               Concrete             1981       280.0       280.0       280.0        20.2       Under construction
41.PT Mafha Bor Indonesia        Oil drilling         1981       228.0)      346.0       388.7        19.7
1982       118.0)
42.PT Rachman & Sons             Shoes                1982       139.0         -           -          25.0
43.PT Trikora Lloyd              Shipping             1982    6,450.0    6,450.0    8,207.3           20.0
44.PT 8haita Lajo Tanker         Shipping             1982       344.0       344.0       306.1        23.0
45.PT 3haita                     Shipping             1982        76.0        76.0        96.8        13.4       Good prospect
46.PT Industrial Gases Ind.   Gas                     1982    1,075.1    1,075.1    1,123.8           24.6
47.PT Brma                      Sport shoes          1982       468.0       468.0       468.0        20.0
48.PT Perdata Laot                                    1982       738.0       738.0       921.8        30.4
49.PT Sangkulirang Bhakti                             1982       382.0       382.0       382.0        10.9
50.PT Osstana Sakti              Tires                1982       303.0       303.0       303.0        20.2       Preconstructto,
51.PT  Miaskapai                 Shipping             1982       264.0         -           -          21.5       Agreement being finalieed
52.PT Gunung Merapi             Plywood               1982      862.5          -           -          25.0       Agreement being finalised
Total                                              61,919.6   41,629.6
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



-54 -                                   ANNEX 6
Table .
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Summarized Balance Sheets, as of December 31, 1978 - 1982 /a
(Rp million)
December 31
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982 /d
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash on hand and due from binks            6,430      9,521      9,284      7,792    20,228
Due from Bank Indonesia                    8,163      4,560    12,458    19,553    22,708
Current maturities of portfolio           17,099    33,104    41,761    71,581   104,900
Marketable securities                      7,958      8,085    16,272       5,400      4,100
Short-term raw cotton loans                  279        150         90         24          -
Accrued interest on loans                  4,408      5,746      7,405      7,733    17,339
Provisions for losses on interest         (2,269)   (4,830)   (5,082)   (6,009)   (9,972)
Other current assets                       3,113      3,656      7,364    14,492    22,418
Total Current Assets                   45,181    59,992    89,552   120,566   181,721
Loan Portfolio
Working Capital Loans
Industry                                17,907    35,333    52,695    91,152   104,175
Maritime                                 1,529      3,886      4,142      9,907    13,220
Subtotal                               19,A36    39,219    56,837   101,059   117,395
Investment Loans
Industry                                63,389    91,420   114,112   179,535   335,800
Syndications                             3,519      2,512      6,929    14,882    21,895
Maritime                                20,749    28,814    43,648    64,736    86,000
Subtotal                               87,657   122,746   164,689   259,153   443,695
Cofinancing with RDBs                      7,865      6,494      7,034    10,549    13,813
Government Loans                           2,484      2,484      2,484      2,321          -
Total Loan Portfolio                  117,442   170,943   231,044   373,082   574,903
Less provisions for losses                (4,443)   (5,269)   (9,266)  (10,203)  (16,290)
Less current maturities                  (17,099)  (33,104)  (41,761)  (71,581) (104,900)
Less portion of other banks and
financial institutions                       -          -   (17,541)  (17,517)  (20,370)
Net Loan Portfolio                     95,900   132,570   162,476   273,781   433,343
Equity Investments                           2,980      3,546      5,504    28,697    41,464
Less provisions for losses                  (733)      (733)   (1,075)   (1,138)   (1,548)
Net Equity Portfolio                    2,247      2,813      4,429    27,559    39,916
Fixed Assets                                 1,426      1,563      1,728      2,023      2,740
TOTAL ASSETS                          144,754   196,938   258,184   423,929   657,720
Managed Fund lb
Raw cotton loans                          23,892    23,333    10,227        9,863     9,704
Project aid
Foreign exchange loans                  61,902    95,962    95,587   106,137   102,594
Local currency loans                     1,728      2,039      2,041     2,041      4,574
Other assets                               2,299      2,121      1,725      3,450      3,534
Total Managed Fund                   89,821   123,455   109,580   121,595   120,406



55-                                  ANNEX 6
Table i
Page 2 of 2
Audited
1978      1979       1980       1981     1982 /d
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Cash in banks with credit balance              1       176        363        240 }
Demand deposits                            2,112     3,053      5,574      9,191 }  68,709
Time deposits /c                          8,962    10,031    24,987    24,987 }
Short-term borrowings for raw cotton         111       100         73          - }       -
Short-term borrowings from Bank                                                  }
Indonesia                                   -          -          -    20,083 }
Accounts pVable and accrued expenses   3,700         7,937    15,140    15,743 }  54,350
Customers' deposits on letters of                                                }
credit                                     465     1,082      2,628     4,228 }
Income tax payable                          968      1,037      1,899      3,304 }
Current maturities of long-term loans
payable                                10,732    12,681    12,275    31,706    76,500
Due to Managed Fund                        2,299     2,121      2,479      4,732          -
Notes payable                                  -         -          -      3,550         -
Total Current Liabilities             29,350    38,218    65,418   117,764   199,559
Long-Term Liabilities
Special and time deposits /c              3,000    18,000    32,000    76,437 } 102,631
Government loans                             938       494        647        494 4
Bank Indonesia loans                     23,054    47,442    40,159    96,130   242,995
State bank loans                          9,696      4,943      4,893     6,562    11,651
IDA/IBRD/ADB/KFW loans                   26,002    35,789    51,576    69,223    75,689
Total Long-Term Liabilities           62,740   106,668   129,275   248,846   432,966
Less current maturities                  (10,732)  (12,681)  (12,275)  (31,706)  (76,500)
Net Long-Term Liablities              52,008    93,987   117,000   217,140   356,466
Total Liabilities                     81,358   132,205   182,418   334,904   556,025
Equity
Paid-up capital                          59 ,981    59 ,981    69 ,981    79,981    79,981
Retained earnings                         3,415      4,752      5,786     9,044    21,714
Total Equity                          63,396    64,733    75,767    89,025   101,695
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         144,754   196,938   258,185   423,929   657,720
Managed Fund /b
Short-term borrowings for raw cotton   19,483    18,940         8,637     8,330      9,721
Project aid fund:
Foreign exchange cost                  55,620    89,936    88,238    96,058   106,111
Local currency cost                     1,133      1,133      1,133     1,132      4,574
Interest payable                         13,583    13,446    11,572    16,075
Total Managed Fund                    89,821   123,455   109,580   121,595   120,406
/a  Accounts for 1978-81 are audited.
/b  Managed on behalf of Bank Indonesia and Bank Export-Import Indonesia.
/c  Deposits from civil servants' pension funds.
7_  Unaudited.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



ANNEX 6
- 56 -                                  Table 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Summarized Income Statements for the Years Ending December 31, 1978-82
(Rp million)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982/a
Income
Interest on term and working capital
" loans                                     13,544   17,968   25,600   38,116    64,100
Income from raw cotton loans                 1,002        12       144         5         -
Other income                                 2,873    2,901    5,026    6,014        8,000
Total Income                             17,419   20,881   30,770   44,135    72,100
Expenses
Interest on term debt                        5,507    7,024   11,305   14,799    30,800
Other interest/financial expenses            1,239       865    2,052    4,206 )  3
Salaries and other personnel expenses        3,749    4,344    5,909    6,859    13,500
Administrative and general expenses          1,284    1,454    1,911    2,323    1
Total Expenses                           11,779   13,687   21,177   28,187    44,300
Profit before provisions and tax                5,640    7,194    9,593   15,948    27,800
Provisions for losses on loans                 3,569    4,758    5,558    8,536    15,100
Profit before tax                              2,071    2,436    4,035    7,412    12,700
Income tax (45Z)                                  968    1,038    1,899    3,304       5,700
Net Profit                                1,103    1,398    2,i36    4,108        7,000
Ratios
As Percentage of Average Total Assets
Gross income                                12.8      12.2     13.5      12.9       13.3
Financial expenses                           5.0       4.6       5.9      5.6        5.7
Administrative and personnel                 3.7       3.4       3.4      2.7        2.5
Provisions                                   2.6       2.8       2.4      2.5        2.8
Profit before tax                            1.5       1.4       1.8      2.1        2.3
Net profit (after tax)                       0.8       0.8       0.9      1.2        1.3
Other Ratios
Net profit as % of average net worth         1.8       2.2      3.0       5.0        7.3
Income from term loans as % of
average term loans                        12.8      12.5     12.7      13.4       13.8
Cost of term debt as % of average
term debt                                 10.1       8.3      9.6       7.2        7.3
Interest spread                              2.7       4.2       3.1      6.2        6.5
Gross spread (gross income -
financial expenses)                        7.8       7.6      7.6       7.3        8.1
/a Unaudited.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUtNAN INDONESIA
Analysis of Term Portfolio in Arrears,
as of December 31, 1980-82 /a
(Rp million)
Industrial loans                    Maritime loans                     Total term portfolio
1980        1981        1982        1980        1981         1982        1980         1981        1982
Portfolio Status
Total loans outstanding                                                     163,822    258,764    430,659         47,790      74,582      97,609    211,612       333,346    528,268
Less:  Outstanding loans in grace period                                     58,101    103,280    239,616         15,985      -1-1,181     19,305      74,048    114,461       258,921
Loans in repayment stage                                                    105,721     155,484    191,043        31,805      63,401      78,304    137,564    218 885    269,347
Outstanding amount of loans affected by arrears                 i77T   6T297                        2      9   08179           4,932      7  ,3         0            17      5 6 5 T,441
Outstanding amount of loans repaying regularly                               98,290    142,855    162,035         29,926      58,469      55,871    130,216    201,324    217,906
Arrears
Principal                                                                     1,951          941       3,175       1,394       1,798       2,532        3,345       2,739        5,707
Interest                                                                      2,607          833       3,590         866       1,433        1,980       3,473       2,266        5,570
Total Arrears                                                              4,558       1,774       6,765        2,260       3,231       4,512        6,818       5,005       11,277
Loans affected by arrears as 7 of total loans outstanding                        4.5         4.9         6.7         3.9          6.6        23.0         4.4          5.3         9.7
Total arrears as Z of total loans outstanding                                    2.8         0.7         1.6         4.7          4.3         4.6         3.2          1.5         2.1
Total arrears of principal as % of total loans outstanding in
in repayment stage                                                            1.8         0.6         1.7          4.4         2.8          3.2         2.5         1.3          2.1
Collection rate (Z)                                                            80.3         72.2        75.5        77.4        69.6         69.4        79.5         71.6        74.2
Reschedulings and Write-Offs
Loans rescheduled during the year /b                                         10,195       8,087       20,792         827          338       5,958      11,022        8,425      26,750
Loans written off during the year                                               826        6,025         745         136            -       1,015         962        6,025       1,760
Aging of loan                             Industrial loans                                     Maritime loans                                    Total term portfolio
arrears as of            No. of            Outstand-                          No. of          Outstand-                          No. of            Outstand-
December 31, 1981          clients    7    ing loans   Z    Arrears   Z    clients  %    ing loans   %    Arrears   Z    clients    Z    ing loans   7    Arrears    X
3.1- 6 months              16      64.0      3,608   28.6       861   48.5       1   16.7          19    0.4       357   11.1    17         54.9      3,627   20.6   1,218    24.3
6.1-12 months               6      24.0      7,686   60.8       457   25.8       2   33.3       3,057   62.0       501   15.5       9       29.0    10,743   61.2        958    19.2
12.1-24 months                1      4.0        314    2.5       277   15.6       -    -             -    -         919   28.4       -        -          314    1.8   1,196    23.9
Over 24 months                2      8.0      1,021    8.1       179   10.1        3   50.0      1,856   37.6   1,454   45.0         5       16.1      2,877   16.4   1,633    32.6
Total                    25    100.0    12,629  100.0   1,774  100.0           6  100.0       4,932  100.0   3,231  lC(> 3)       1              17,IE.       00s0    5,r0os   '00.0
Aging of loan                             Indulstrial loans                                    Maritime loans                                    Total term portfolio
arrears as of            No. of            Outstand-                          No. of          Outstand-                          No. of            Outstand-
December 31, 1982          clients    7    ing loans   %    Arrears    %   clients  %    log loans    Z   Arrears   7    clients                       o     ans         Arrears Z
3.1- 6 months               8      17.4      1,932    6.6   2,097   31.0         1   14.3       9,321   41.6   1,073   23.8         9       17.0    11,253   21.9   3,170    28.1
6.1-12 months              18      39.1    10,132   35.9   3,079   45.5          3   42.9    10,834   48.3         565   12.5    21         39.6    20,966   40.8   3,644    32.3
12.1-24 months              18      39.1    15, 732   54.2   1,233   15.2         1   14.3          73    0.3       785   17.4    19         35.8     15,805   30.7   2,018    17.9
Over 24 months                2      4.4      1,212    4.2       356    5.3        2   28.5      2,205    9.8   2,089   46.3         4        7.6      3,417    6.6   2,445    21.9
Total                    46    100.0    29,008  100.0   6,765  100.0           7  100.0    22,433  100.0   4,512  100.0    53           100.0    51,441  100.0  11,277   100.0
/a 1982 unaudited.
/b  Principal only.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Resource Position as of December 31, 1982
(Rp million)
Long-Term Resources
Domestic Currency
Paid-in capital and capital reserve                                       79,981
Free reserve and retained earnings                                        21,714
Provision for doubtful accounts                                           27,810
Subtotal                                                                129,505
Borrowings from:
Bank Indonesia                                                         201,192
Government of Indonesia and special deposits                           102,631
State banks                                                             11,651
Time deposits (over 2 years)                                            51,828
Subtotal                                                                367,302
Total Long-Term Domestic Resources                                      496,807
Less:  Loans outstanding                                                 413,925
Co-financing with RDBs                                            13,813
Other state banks under consortium                                21,895
Equity investments                                                41,464
Fixed assets                                                       2,740
Resources Available for Disbursement                                      2,970
Less:  Undisbursed commitment                                            405,638
Add back:  Amount covered by consortium and Central Bank loans           338,082
Resources Available for Commitment                                      (64,586)
Less:  Uncommitted approvals                                              88,980
Add back:  Amounts covered by consortium or Central Bank loans            70,839
Resources Available for Approvals                                       (82,727)



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Table 4
Pi2 of 2
Long-Term Resources (cont-d)
Foreign Currency
Foreign currency borrowings:
IDA and IBRD                                                            32,688
KFW and ADB                                                             22,702
Total Long-Term Foreign Resources                                        55,390
Less:  Cumulative disbursements                                             47,027
Resources Available for Disbursement                                      8,363
Less:  Undisbursed commitments                                               6,888
Uncommitted approvals                                                 1,407
Resources Available for Approvals                                            68
Short-Term Resources (Domestic Currency Only)
Deposits                                                                    16,881
Borrowings from Bank Indonesia                                              41,803
Other current resources                                                     33,190
Total Short-Term Resources                                               91,874
Less:  Reserve requirement against deposits                                  9,940
Short-term loans outstanding plus accrued interest                  65,615
Other current assets                                                 9,791
Resources Available for Utilization                                       6,528
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 60 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Operations, 1983-87
(Rp billion)
1983       1984        1985        1986        1987
Approvals
Domestic Currency
Investment loans              45.9        60.3        67.0        74.7        83.2
Working capital loans         41.0        29.0        33.0        40.0        48.0
Program loans                 31.0        31.0        35.0        39.0        44.0
Cofinancing with RDBs          4.0         4.0         5.0         5.0         5.0
Equity investments             -           2.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Subtotal                    121.9       126.3       143.0       161.7       183.2
Foreign Loans                   56.0        73.5        82.0        91.3       101.8
Total Approvals             177.9       199.8       225.0       253.0       285.0
Commitments
Domestic Currency
Investment loans              68.6        57.5        61.0        68.7        74.2
Working capital loans         42.3        39.4        32.0        37.0        46.0
Program loans                 29.4        31.2        34.9        39.0        43.9
Cofinancing with RDBs          3.7         4.0         5.0         5.0         5.0
Syndications                  36.2        20.4         -           -           -
Equity investments             0.8         2.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
Subtotal                    181.0       154.5       135.9       152.7       172.1
Foreign Loans                   56.0        73.5        82.0        91.3       101.8
Total Commitments           237.0       228.0       217.9       244.0       273.9
Disbursements
Domestic Currency
Investment loans             142.4       167.2       156.0       117.4       138.3
Working capital loans         45.0        59.8        47.3        36.3        41.1
Program loans                 28.8        31.0        34.7        38.8        43.6
Cofinancing with RDBs          3.7         4.0         5.0         5.0         5.0
Syndications                  12.9        20.0        17.8        10.0        -
Equity investments             2.7         5.0         5.5         3.0         3.0
Subtotal                    235.5       287.0       266.3       210.5      231.0
Foreign Loans                   62.7        71.9        33.0        28.0        26.0
Total Disbursements         298.2       358.9       299.3       238.5       257.0
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Income Statement, 1983-87
(Rp billion)
1982 /a
Actual    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Income
Investment loans                     -        60.7    84.2   105.4   118.8   129.1
Working capital loans                41.9      15.5    18.8    22.0    23.2    23.5
Kelayakan loans and
Keppres 14A loans                 18.2       3.9      4.8      5.7      6.6      7.4
KIK/KMKP loans                       -          0.2      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.3
Cofinancing with RDBs                 2.0       1.0     1.1      1.2      1.2      1.2
Syndications                         2.0       3.3      5.0      7.0      8.3      8.5
Other income                         8.0        7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5
Total Income                     72.1      92.1   121.6   149.1   165.9   177.5
Expenses
Time & demand deposits               -         7.5      8.0      8.5      9.0      9.6
Special deposits                    10.7       7.8      9.3    10.6    11.7    12.2
Bank Indonesia loans                 9.9      21.5    32.1    39.9    44.7    48.3
Syndications                         3.2       2.5      4.7      6.9      8.3      8.5
Foreign loans                         7.0       7.3     8.4    10.5    12.4    14.0
Bonds                                -          3.0     4.0      4.0      4.0      2.0
General & admin. expenses           13.5      16.8    21.4    25.6    29.4    32.3
Provisions for losses                15.1      10.9    13.5    12.3       7.9      5.3
Total Expenses                   59.4      77.3   101.4   118.3   127.4   132.2
Profit Before Tax                12.7      14.8    20.2    30.8    38.5    45.3
Corporate tax                           5.7       6.7      9.1    13.9    17.3    20.4
Net Profit                        7.0       8.1    11.1    16.9    21.2    24.9
/a Unaudited.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 62 -                                                    ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-87
(Rp billion)
1982 /a
As of December 31,                                          Actual       1983        1984       1985        1986        1987
Assets
Current Assets
Cash, bank deposits & marketable securities               43.0      83.1        39.0        46.2       75.6        68.8
Current maturities of portfolio loans                    104.9      86.5       111.7       139.0      160.2       184.2
Accrued interest receivable                               17.3      18.2        19.1        20.0       21.0        22.0
Provisions for losses on interest                        (10.0)   (10.9)       (11.5)     (12.0)      (12.6)     (13.2)
Accrued interest on loans (net)                            7.3        7.3        7.6        13.0        8.4         8.8
Keppres 14A                                               16.6      20.2        22.4        25.8       30.2        31.2
Other current assets                                       9.9      10.0        11.9        13.0       14.3        15.8
Total Current Assets                                    181.7    207.1        192.6      232.0       288.7      308.8
Loans & Investments
Investment loans                                         406.5    588.1        797.3      938.1   1,017.5   1,106.9
Syndications                                              21.8      32.7        49.7        64.5       71.5        68.5
Working capital loans                                    117.4     138.2       171.9       190.4      192.1        95.1
Kelayakan loans                                           13.2      18.0        22.8        27.1       31.8        35.8
KIK/KMKP loans                                             2.2       2.5         2.7         2.9        3.1         3.4
Cofinancing with RDBs                                     13.8      15.8        17.2        18.3       18.4        18.5
Equity investments                                        41.5      43.2        47.2        51.7       53.7        55.5
Less:  Provisions for losses on loans & equity
investments                                   (17.8)   (27.8)       (40.7)      (52.5)    (59.8)       (64.5)
Current maturities                              (104.9)   (86.5)   (111.7)   (139.0)   (160.2)   (184.2)
Portion of other banks                           (20.4)   (29.4)       (39.9)     (46.9)    (50.9)       (55.4)
Total Loans & Investments                               473.3    694.8       916.5    1,054.6   1,117.2    1,179.6
Fixed Assets                                                 2.7        7.6       18.2        21.5       24.4        26.6
Total Assets                                            657.7    909.5   1,127.3    1,308.1    1,430.3    1,515.0
Managed Fund /b                                            120.4    126.4        132.7       139.4      146.3       153.7
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand and time deposits                                  68.7      73.7        78.5        83.7       88.7        93.7
Current maturities of long-term loans payeble             76.5      70.5        83.0       97.2       149.1      193.8
Other current liabilities                                 54.4      39.6        42.4        46.1       51.4        56.0
Total Current Liabilities                               199.6    183.8       203.9       227.0       289.2      343.5
Long-Term Liabilities
Bonds                                                      -        25.0        25.0       25.0        25.0        -
Government loans and special deposits                    102.6    122.6        142.6      159.6       174.6      174.6
Bank Indonesia loans                                     243.0     458.8       605.9      712.9       768.3      832,5
Less portion of other banks                              (16.1)   (23.2)       (31.5)      (37.1)     (40.2)     (43.8)
State banks loans                                         11.6      25.6        44.2        58.4       64.3       63.0
Foreign currency loans                                    75.6      67.6        79.3       91.7       109.2      125.1
Less current maturities                                  (76.5)   (70.5)       (83.0)     (97.2)   (149.1)   (193.8)
Net Long-Term Liabilities                              356.4    605.9         782.5      913.3       952.1      957.6
Equity
Paid-in capital                                           80.0      90.0       100.0      110.0       110.0      110.0
Retained earnings                                         21.7      29.8        40.9        57.8       79.0      103.9
Total equity                                            101.7     119.8       140.9      167.8       189.0      213.9
Total Liabilities and Equity                            657.7    909.5   1,127.3    1,308.1    1,430.3    1,515.0
Managed Fund /b                                            120.4      126.4      132.7       139.4      146.3       153.7
/a Unaudited.
/a Managed funds on behalf of Bank Indonesia and Bank Export-Import Indonesia.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 63 -
INDONESIA
.ANK FENAJIGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Indicators of Financial Position and Perforsance. 1982-87
(ip billion)
1982
Actual  1983       1984      1985     1986      1987
Total Assets                                         657.7  909.   1,127 3  1 ,306 S  1 403 3  1 515.0
Of which:  Term loan portfolto /a                  Ti1  W49 9         041    9sa0.7  1,'031.6  l:2112
Equity investeent                       39.9   43.2      47.2      51.7      53.7      55.5
LongrTerm Debts /b                                   433.0  676.4    865 5  1,010 5  1 101 5  1 151. 4
Of which:  Bank Indonesia loans                     137   4553?     37174    6751       7         7    7
Government loans 4 pension fund
deposits                            102.6  122.6    142.6    159.6    174.6    174.6
State banks- loans                      11.7   30.9      50.3      67.4      80.8      9 7.2
Foreign currency loans                  75.7   67. 6     79.3      91.7    109.2    125.1
equity                                               101.7  119.8    140.9    167.8    189.0    213.9
la t los
Financial Ratios
Current Ic                                       1.3:1  1.8:1    1.5:1    1.5:1    1.4:1    1.2:1
Long-teru debt/equity                            4.3:1  5.6:1    6.0:1    5.9: 1    5. 51    4.9:1
Total debt/equiy                            6 .0:1  6.6:1    7.0:1    7.0:1    6.6:1    6.1:1
Profitability Ratios
As ! of average total assets
Gross earning                                   13.3   11.8      11.9      12.2      12.1      12.1
Financtal expenses                               5.7    6.3       6.5       6.6       6.6       6.4
General & administrativo expenses                2.5    2.1       2.1       2.1       2.1       2.2
Provisions                                      2.8    1.4        1.3       1.0       0.6       0.4
Profit before tax                               2.3    2.0        2.0       2.5       2.8       3.1
Met profit                                       1.3    1.0       1.1       1.4       1.5       1.7
Income from term losn portfolio as 2 of
average term loan portfolio                    13.8   12.4       12.4      12.5      12.5      12.5
Cost of term debt as 2 of average term debt   7. 3    7.4           7.4       7. 5      7.9       7.9
Cross spread                                       6. 5    5. 0      5. 0     5.0       4.6       4.6
Profit after tax and provisions as 2 o'
average equity                                   7. 3    7. 3     8. 5     10.9      11.8      12.3
Book value as 2 of par value                    203.4  199.7    201.3    209.8    236.3    267.4
Provisions as 2 of year-end outstanding
loan and equity portfolio                       3.7    4.1        4.5       5.0       5.2       4.8
Debt service cover ratio                         1.6:1  1.3:1    1.3:1    1.4:1    1.4:1    1.2:1
/a  Excluding working capital loans.
7i  Including current msturities.
7_  Pension fund deposits are excluded from current liabilities in calculating
this ratio sin,e they constitute term liabilities.
AEF  Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Table 5
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1983-87
(Rp billion)
As of December 31,                                 1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Sources
Income before corporate income tax               14.8   20.2   30.8   38.5   45.3
Add back noncash charges (depreciation &
provisions for losses)                         13.5   16.5   16.0   11.1    8.8
Subtotal                                      28.3   36.7   46.8   49.6   54.1
Increase in share capital                         -       -       -      -       -
Increase in deposits                              5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Drawdown foreign currency borrowings             12.7   32.9   33.0   28.0   26.0
Drawdown domestic currency borrowings
Bank Indonesia loans                          241.6  194.1  168.8  133.6  153.4
State banks loans                              18.0   23.3   19.4   12.4    6.9
Bonds                                          25.0    -       -       -       -
Special deposits                               20.0   20.0   20.0   15.0   15.0
Subtotal                                     304.6  237.4  208.2  161.0  175.3
Loan collections
Working capital loans                          24.2   26.1   28.8   34.6   38.1
Investment loans                               28.1   30.0   48.2   66.0   74.9
Raw cotton loans                                -       -       -      -       -
KIK/KMKP loans                                  0.7    0.9    1.0    1.1    1.2
Kelayakan loans                                 1.9    2.4    3.8    4.4    6.2
Keppres 14A loans                              17.5   20.5   22.0   24.0   30.9
Cofinancing with RDBs                           1.7    2.6    3.9    4.9    4.9
Equity                                          1.2    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Syndications                                    2.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Subtotal                                      77.3   86.5  111.7  139.0  160.2
Fixed assets financing                            4.6    7.6    2.4    3.0    1.6
Total Sources                                432.5  406.1  407.1  385.6  422.2
Uses
Disbursements
Working capital loans                          45.0   59.8   47.3   36.3   41.1
Investment loans                              205.1  239.1  189.0  145.4  164.3
Cofinancing with RDBs                           3.7    4.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Syndications                                   12.9   20.0   17.8   10.0    -
KIK/KMKP loans                                  1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.5
Kelayakan loans                                 6.7    7.2    8.1    9.1   10.2
Keppres 14A loans                              21.1   22.7   25.4   28.4   31.9
Equity investments                              2.7    5.0    5.5    3.0    3.0
Subtotal                                     298.2  358.9  299.3  238.5  257.0
Repayments
Foreign currency loans                         10.8   11.2   10.6   10.5   10.1
Bank Indonesia loans                           46.5   54.6   64.2   80.2   90.8
State banks loans                               4.0    4.7    5.2    6.5    8.2
Special deposits                                -       -      3.0    -       15.0
Bonds                                           -       -      -       -      25.0
Subtotal                                      61.3   70.5   83.0   97.2  149.1
Increase in fixed assets                          5.8   11.7    3.7    3.2    2.5
Payment of corporate tax                          6.7    9.1   13.9   17.3   20.4
Other                                            20.4    -        -      -       -
Total Uses                                   392.4  450.2  399.9  356.2  429.0
Increase (decrease) in cash balance              40.1  (44.1)   7.2   29.4   (6.8)
Opening cash balance                             43.0   83.1   39.0   46.2   75.6
Closing cash balance                             83.1   39.0   46.2   75.6   68.8
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



ANNEX 7
Table 6
- 65 -
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
(In US$ million)
Commitments                                      Disbursements
Technical assis-                     Cumulative  Technical assis-                       Cumulative
tance component    Credit             % share    tance component    Credit               Z share
BAPINDO  Other/a  component  Total       p.a.     BAPINDO  Other/a  component  Total       p.a.
FY84
Jul-Sep     0.1        -         30.0      30.1     14.5      -          -          -         -        -
Oct-Dec     0.1        0.2       25.0      25.3     26.7       0.1       -          10.0     10.1       4.8
Jan-Mar     0.2        0.3       25.0      25.5     39.0       0.1       0.1        11.0     11.2     10.2
Apr-Jun     0.2        0.5       25.0      25.7     51.4       0.1       0.1        12.0     12.2     16.1
Subtotal   0.6        1.0      105.0    106.6      51.4      0.3        0.2       33.0      33.5     16.1
FY85
Jul-Sep     0.2        0.5       25.0      25.7     63.8       0.1       0.1        12.0     12.2     22.0
Oct-Dec     0.2        0.5       25.0      25.7     76.2       0.2       0.1        12.0     12.3     27.8
Jan-Mar     0.2        0.5       30.0      30.7     91.0       0.2       0.2        13.0     13.4     34.3
Apr-Jun     0.2        0.6       15.0      15.8     98.5       0.2       0.2        13.0     13.4     40.7
Subtotal   0.8        2.1       95.0    107.7      98.5      0.7        0.6       50.0      51.3     40.7
FY86
Jul-Sep     0.3        0.6        -         0.7     98.8      0.2        0.2        10.6     11.0     46.0
Oct-Dec     0.3        0.6        -         0.7     99.1       0.2       0.2        10.6     11.0     51.2
Jan-Mar     0.3        0.6        -         0.8     99.5       0.2       0.2        10.6     11.0     56.5
Apr-Jun     0.3        0.6        -         0.8    100.0       0.2       0.2        10.6     11.0     61.8
Subtotal   1.4        2.4        -         3.0    100.0      0.8        0.8       42.4      44.0     61.8
FY87
Jul-Sep     -          -          -        -         -         0.2       0.4        9.4      10.0     66.7
Oct-Dec     -          -          -         -        -         0.2       0.4        9.4      10.0     71.4
Jan-Mar     -          -          -         -        -         0.2       0.4        9.3       9.9     76.2
Apr-Jun     -          -          -         -        -         0.2       0.4         9.3      9.9     80.7
Subtotal   -         -           -        -         -        0.8        1.6       37.4      39.8     80.7
FY88
Jul-Sep     -          -          -        -         -        0.1        0.5        9.3       9.9     85.7
Oct-Dec     -          -          -         -        -         0.1       0.6        9.3      10.0     90.5
Jan-Mar     -          -          -         -        -        -          0.6        9.3       9.9     95.2
Apr-Jun     -          -          -         -        -         -         0.6         9.3      9.9    100.0
Subtotal   -         -           -        -         -        0.2        2.3       37.2      39.7    100.0
Total      2.8        5.5      200.0    208.3/b  100.0       2.8        5.5      200.0    208.3/b  100.0
/a Subsectoral studies.
/b Not including front-end fee.
AEP Projects Department
March 31, 1983



- 66 -                            ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Selected Documents in the Project File
1. Portfolio Review
2. Details of the Program of Action (1983/84)
3. In-House Training Plan
4. Consultants - Hiring Procedures Followed by BAPINDO
5. List of Consultant Firms under Consideration
6. Draft TOR for Senior Development Banking Advisor
7. Draft TOR for Consultants
8. List of Monitorable Actions in the Program of Action for the
period April 1, 1983 - March 31, 1984
9. Procedures for Administering the Managed Funds Provision of
the Policy Statement
AEP Projects Department
April 12, 1983



- 67 -
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Organization Chart
(as of December 31, 1982)
SUPERVISORY BOARDIV
My, sIeroyE,ylance
Al, Wardha.a
Governor of Bank ladodfRs
Racymal Saleh
_                                        I~~~T
BOARD OF MANAGING OIRECTORS
PRESIDENT
I Kun.oadI,
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MANAGING DIRECTOR                   MANAGING DIRECTOR                                     TOR                MANAGING DIRECTOR
O-dala Sah-an                   Seeyoo Sosrodarsono                     SbekAls 1-s-ao                    SAdhar.a S P So-r,d,
PLANNING DEPT                        CREDIT DEPT 11                      CREDIT DEPT I                        CREDIT DEPT I1                   CREDIT AND BRANCH
Pr.bowd                             SuO wdono                           Soe-aho                            Abba Adhra                      SUPERVISION DEPT
Eddy So-pad
P    5                               P    lB                            P    56                              P    46                             P    29
NP   2                               NP   S                             NP  12                               NP  12                             NP  12
DESK FOR ELECTRON C                        PERSONNEL                     EOUITY INVESTMENT                        FINANCE AND                       SPECIAL DEBTOR
DATA PROCESSING                       RELATION DEPT                            DEPT                           ACCOUNT  DEPT                      SUPERVISION DEPT
W M Th N-ayp                            L A Faroe-                          A-yy llyas                            Saluku                          _oyma  Soey-o,o
P    5                               P     10                           P    18                              P    19                             P    15
NP  7                                NP  14                             Np   I                               NP  23                              NP   3
AUDIT AND INSPEC                     DESK FOR EDUCA-                         CORPORATE                         RESEARCH DEPT                          FUND DEPT
TION DEPT                       TION AND TRAINING                      AFFAIR DEPT                        Maman Add,aay h-                       Pud,ay W,d.dd
AZ-a,                             Ro_Pyd,                            Iman Supard,o
P    B                                 |  P 1                            P   22                              P    2l                             P    14
NP                                    P   2                             NP  35                               NP   4                              NP   6
GENERAL SERVICE  I                 APINDO CONSULTANT                   PROJECT PROMOTION                      DESK FOR LEGAL
DEPT|   PROJECT IRDBI                                                    DEPT                           AFFAIRS DEPT
Soeyo IsNa-g9                         Ad,yl Na-aSa-                     GDnayyo GCu.aay,                     Ydldpat Salmd-
P    14                             P    12                              P    20                             P    5
| P  2|                             NP  -                                NP   2                               NP  1
S BANDS ACER                                AMBON                            JAKARTA RAYS                          SEMARANG
Th|,y  YVo,d                          Mey Had,d           l              B-a-dyg K-yy-oyo                    P-y- S-y,d1
P    4                              P                                    P   37                              P    12
NP                                 NP3 4                                NP  32                              NP  13
MEDAN                              MENADO                               BANDJUNG                          YOYAKARTAS
Aqd_ S-mI Ra-     Z-d'                                           B| od, Soesa-so                            P.. - S ... d
P    10                             P   A                                P    10                             P     B
NP  12                              NP  3                               NP  20                               NP  10
PEKANBARU                         UJUNG PANSANG                        TANJ KARANG                          BANJARMASIN
My,a AdHJ-                       Sr. He no Sabar                       OC-oeIdr  So-ka                       Z-l AbSdm
P    5                             P      9                              P   6                               P   9
NP  2                              NP  17                                NP  2                              NP  B
PADANG                             DENPASAE                            PONTIANAK                           SAM|RUNDA
sa-'l UnMo  Sob.,                                                     flOra BR-IR                             Mya,-
P    5                              P     7                               P    6 P                           P
NP  3                               NP  190                               NP3                                NP  2
PALEMBANG                            SURABSAY
Rdal-rn, Sy                       SOh S.,onhO                  B
P    7                             P    21
NP  12                              NP  19
H-dd Off-,      Re-ey  DOfe-          T-l
Se--, E--e-dloer                               13                                   t3
Adviooo_2                                       4                 -                  4
De,l Head dyd DOp-Jed                          25                 3                 28
D,-o Ch.Sal                                    25                 5                 30
B-ydcy Mana-eydoy Depoy- s                                       19                 19
OffI,er                                       302               140               442
Told, P,omfs oyal Syafl              369               *67                536
TRIal Noy-prOlee, onSy ldlIff        191               175                356
550               342               092
1/ The member5 of yye SOpeRc,sOEr Baard have delegaRed lye., duthSooly 10 yye,r lespeytlde a.Iernales Dr Oskar So,,aa,y,adla
ID,recoy G-nerl, MIs-Illof F-ayelfor M-,ye of Fyace and D. May-yMo-Danoesapoeto , MaBdgyo kecloyyayk
Iydyoyesdl f1, Goo-., B,nk S da-oyes a
21 IC-0   Cn General EC--om   and Iod--tr  -scoog 6n LeEal Aff. rs -r I-p al h'I, Ih, Pro.e- Promol.-   Ad-.-r I
P Pyolesa,oealslayl
NP Nan Pyol.es,yya lldll
AEP P-oleclS De-dy-meyl
M-roy 19R3                                                                                                                                                   4Wodl Bank-24248



I



IROD 11166R2D
THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                          6"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iN2  12la.3     140      050  a
-1,                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DO V4
MaMa No.4  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o} ~~~~~PHILIPPINES                                                                                                          A                       BANK  PEMBANGUNAN   JNDQNESIA
0400000 THHROTHHO                              ~~~~~ ~~~South   China           Se9              8tN&7
oTTO  ,   MALAYS A                                                  H04'-R                                                                                                      LOCA~~~~~~~~~~~~W,TIO   OF 8RANCHF4
_'m  ,MALAY, A                                                                                                                                                              IIEAU 01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hR OFC
IMALAYSIA1
I~)-NGAPORE                                                                                                 .,HAZM,10OOERA                                                                       poc f to                        Oce a  n 
*0                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K   A   L   I   MA4   N   ~TA    N,                                  aaoas'                                            -
TO   0:04-ERA  -  I                          OMA04T00                     - 0,               17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N~ikap,  LOS        -               A--                                                 --1,9anHoar Ou-
BANOKA                                     0TST004aAppa
0  *HorgaaIpinan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         )                                   ROTA RETO~~~~~~~~~SL                                                                                          
5  A T E0 I?oonpada                                             I     ,A                                                              AAWESI                                  sw           ~        -    ~ TAIH               5T
0                    Polembang~~                                                  ~           ~      ~ .   .-          301-,                                            *   ,-d-   ---SC                                        ab,          OR/ANI  JA CA   -H
t  ~ ~ ~      ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        b~~~-                                                  F- '0
B.~~d-                                 ----- ---
ol, a  n  Oce  a,                                                                ,           sooA   too,'                                                                                    /?                   o
000000A   Kup-TeTa
Tanjagkarag *'                                                                       josgpndasq                  ,  0                                                                                                          9,,            0    I



