Document of
The World Bank
-'LE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                        _
Report No. P-3525-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$208.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
April 20, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1982)
Currency Unit =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        =  Rupiah (Rp) 700 /1
Rp 100         =  US$0.143
Rp 1,000       =  US$1.43
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,428.57
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
BAPINDO's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPINDO    -  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BI          -  Bank Indonesia
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
IDFC        -  Indonesian Development Finance Company
KIB         -  Kredit Investasi Besar (Large Investment Credit Program)
KIK         -  Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit Program)
KMKP        -  Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (Small Permanent Working Capital
Credit Program)
PDFCI       -  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
RDB         -  Regional Development Bank
REPELITA   -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84)
/1 The Board documents for this project are based on an exchange rate of
Rp 700 to the US dollar. However, after project appraisal and loan
negotiations the Government announced, on March 30, 1983, the devalua-
tion of the Rupiah from 700 to 970 per US dollar. While it is too
early at this stage to completely assess all of the effects of this
decision, an initial evaluation of the impact of this decision on the
project shows that its feasibility will not be adversely affected.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:            The Government of Indonesia (GOI) and Bank Pembangunan
Indonesia (BAPINDO)
Amount:                 $208.9 million (including a capitalized front-
end fee of $0.5 million)
Terms:                  The proposed loan will bear standard variable interest
rate, plus commitment fee. The portion of the loan
proceeds that would finance BAPINDO's subloans would
have a flexible amortization schedule conforming
substantially to the aggregate repayment schedules of
BAPINDO's subloans, the maximum term for which would
be 15 years, including a grace period. For the
repayment of technical assistance funds provided both
for the GOI and BAPINDO, a term of 20 years, including
five years grace period, would be applied.
Relending Terms:        The GOI would onlend $203.3 million (including the
corresponding front-end fee of $0.5 million) of the
proposed loan to BAPINDO at a rate not exceeding
11.0% p.a., thus bearing the risk on any possible
interest rate fluctuation on the Bank loan. The GOI
would allocate the remaining $5.6 million to
designated executing agencies as budgetary transfer
for financing sectoral policy studies and project
preparation. The foreign exchange risk will be borne
by the GOI.
Project Description:  The project is to:  (a) provide foreign exchange needed
to finance viable medium- and large-scale industrial
projects; (b) continue the Bank's ongoing technical
assistance to improve BAPINDO-s operational capability;
and (c) provide finance for sectoral studies leading
to policy recommendations, preparation of industrial
projects and other technical assistance in support of
industrial development under the MI's next Five-Year
Plan (Repelita IV). The proposed loan would be used
to finance BAPINDO's subprojects over the two-year
period from mid-1983 to mid-1985, and the sector
studies, related training and project preparation.
The major benefits of the project would be to further
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
the institution building of BAPINDO, and to contribute
to industrial development financing in Indonesia. The
risks associated with the project are minimal.
Bank FY      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988
--------------US$ million---------------
Estimated
Disbursements:        Annual       34.1      51.3      44.0      39.8      39.7
Cumulative  34.1       85.4    129.4    169.2    208.9
Rate of Return:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 4286-IND, dated April 13, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $208.9 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Fifth BAPINDO
Project. The portion of the loan proceeds ($200 million plus the front-end
fee) that would finance the credit component of the project would have a
flexible amortization schedule conforming substantially to the aggregate
repayment schedules of BAPINDO's subloans.  The portion allocated for
technical assistance would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Government of Indonesia
(GOT) would onlend $203.3 million of the proposed loan to BAPINDO at a rate
not exceeding 11.0% p.a., thus bearing the risk of any possible interest
rate fluctuation on the Bank loan. The GOI would allocate the remaining
$5.6 million to designated executing agencies as budgetary transfers for
financing sectoral policy studies and project preparation. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation.  The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the East Java Water
Supply Project (No. P-3517-IND), circulated under cover of R83-100, dated
April 13, 1983, and submitted for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 3, 1983.



-2-
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a. The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./l
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in infrastruc-
ture, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer
incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980
and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth
rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has
been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives.
5.        Since 1981 the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Following the reduc-
tion in the OPEC market price from $34 to $29 in early 1983, resource
prospects worsened further. Faced with mounting pressure on the currency,
on March 30, 1983, the GOI devalued the rupiah by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970
to the US dollar. This was an important step in the short run adjustment
process, but barring a major recovery in oil prices, other adjustments will
be necessary, in particular in the rephasing of import-intensive public
expenditures. These measures will lead to a reduction in the growth rate.
At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects have emphasized
the need for substantial structural change in the eighties. The development
of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is essential
to the restoration of reasonable growth.
/1 On the basis of the World Bank-s system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 3 -
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession. Following the devalua-
tion this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed
by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely
affected.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major expan-
sion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mor-
tality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



-4-
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This would broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 28%
devaluation of March 30, 1983, substantially improved incentives for
production of tradeable goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general
review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions caused
by the wide variations in rates of effective protection. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant
domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these
constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to private
investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the. core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
the average opportunity cost; however, relative prices between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.



-5-
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic savings will have to be found. This will require a major increase
in resource mobilization through the public sector over the medium term,
through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and
increased nonoil taxes. In 1981 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic
economy were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out,
compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 and
1983/84 budgets represented a significant effort to improve the situation,
with major reductions in the oil subsidy and increases in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important compo-
nent of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows.  Total
disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $20 billion at the
end of 1982 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $12 billion. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1982 private



- 6 -
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed.  However, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in interna-
tional markets.  The implication is that debt utilization should remain very
prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for official debt
of long maturities in the 1980s. With the sharp decline in oil export
receipts the debt service ratio will rise in the short term, but present
projections indicate that the overall debt position will remain manageable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.        As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service, 7.1%. By the end of 1981, these
ratios increased to 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II contains a
summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28,
1983, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employ-
ment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale indus-
try), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.        During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the East Java
Water Supply Project (No. P-3517-IND), circulated under cover of R83-100,
dated April 13, 1983 and submitted for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 3, 1983.



line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank-s program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and tech-
nical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work is focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will
build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive
industries. This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which
would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued
lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree
crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburse-
ment ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18%
in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%.  However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-8-
number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the ninth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Second Nonformal Education, the Second Polytechnic, and the
Thirteenth Power Projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
21.       Role in the Economy.  In the aftermath of the first oil boom in
1973, the industrial sector, including mining and energy, has been the
fastest growing sector of the economy. During 1971-80, manufacturing grew
at an average annual rate of 14% (12% in 1981) and the industrial sector as
a whole by 11% p.a., compared with about 8% for the economy. Industry in



1980 accounted for about 33% of GDP, compared with 14% in 1960 and 20% in
1970, but manufacturing for only 9%, which is well below its percentage in
most neighboring countries. Although manufactured exports have grown over
the past five years, they still constitute only 14% of non-oil exports, or
about 5% of total exports. Only about 12% of the labor force is employed in
industry.
22.       Structure and Performance.  The latest census of manufacturing
industries shows that larger, more capital-intensive enterprises, comprising
less than 1% of the number of industrial establishments, accounted for over
four-fifths of output, value added and wages, but only 10% of the work
force. Due largely to the high level of protection which promotes import
substitution, and a liberal incentive system for large capital investments,
the industrial growth in the 1970s was concentrated in capital-intensive,
import substituting industries in the public sector, such as cement,
fertilizers, steel and paper. Public sector investment in industry and
mining grew by 17.5% p.a. in 1975-80, outpacing the 8.9% p.a. growth of
gross domestic investment.  While impressive in terms of its recent growth,
the manufacturing sector has not yet demonstrated that it can generate
sufficient jobs or exports. The Bank-s Industrial Sector Report (dated July
15, 1981) highlighted specific policy issues related to trade, regulation,
finance and private foreign investment, and recommended a number of
improvements in the policy and institutional environment to stimulate
industrial activity.
23.       Future Industrial Structure.  Given Indonesia's broad resource
base, a large labor force, low real wages compared to other countries in the
region, and access to foreign investment, there is potential for high indus-
trial growth rates, employment and exports. Improved performance should be
based on (a) the rapid growth of labor-intensive, export-oriented industries
and (b) the selective development of resource-based industries where
Indonesia has a natural comparative advantage. These latter activities will
be related, for example, to oil, fertilizer, cement and wood processing.
24.       Moreover, the industrial sector must provide an increasingly
significant contribution to GDP to sustain the high real rates of GDP growth
in the 1980s. With the labor force expected to grow at about 3% per year in
this decade, the industrial sector must also begin to absorb an increasing
share of employment. In this context, the GOI's Third Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita III) places greater emphasis than previous plans
on the manufacturing sector. It aims at 11% p.a. growth for the sector as a
whole. Within this overall growth target, the GOI has been giving priority
to four objectives: deepening the structure and pattern of industry;
generation of employment opportunities; protection of the economically weak
entrepreneurs; and the promotion of labor-intensive, manufactured exports.
25.        Industrial Policy Issues.  Achieving the above objectives will
require substantial improvements in the overall policy environment for
industry. Specifically, action is needed to reverse the existing bias



- 10 -
toward production for the protected domestic market and against exports,
to attract more foreign investments, to strengthen industrial planning and
project appraisal capability and to streamline Government licensing and
other procedures. Some progress has recently been made in these areas;
however, much remains to be done.
26.       So far, the area where the GOI appears to be making the most
concerted effort to improve policy is in the trade sector, especially in
export promotion./l In January 1982, the GOI legislated a major policy
initiative in the areas of export finance, guarantees, credit and insurance.
In addition to this major policy reform, the GOI is also actively working
toward improving its duty rebate scheme, strengthening delivery of technical
and marketing services to exporters, establishing export zones, improving
customs regulations, upgrading quality of major export commodities and
improving port facilities.
27.       In other areas, progress has been more limited.  In the area of
tariffs, the GOI has prepared, but not yet implemented, a first round overall
reform and is actively recruiting a team of technical experts to advise on
further detailed reforms. Substantial simplification of licensing and
regulatory procedures remains to be undertaken. The GOI is concerned about
the possible adverse impact broad reforms might have on existing industries
and movement on these issues is likely to be gradual. In this context, a
number of detailed subsector studies are being undertaken or proposed in such
subsectors as engineering industries, pulp and paper, textiles, steel, cement
and wood processing. These studies are being given high priority by the GOI
and will explicitly address policy issues at the subsector level. The Bank
has agreed to supervise and finance industrial policy studies and studies at
the subsector level, and related training in export promotion and financing.
An amount of $5.6 million is included in this project for this purpose
(para. 63).
28.       Although immediate across-the-board reforms are not likely in
these broad policy areas, it is not unreasonable to expect the GOI, during
the next three or four years, to implement the initial steps of a phased
program of reform. Such steps could include: implementation of a first
round of tariff cuts reducing some of the high and redundant nominal
tariffs; based on the outcome of the subsector studies and work of the
technical team on tariffs, further specific tariff cuts aimed at evening and
reducing levels of effective protection across subsectors; measures to
promote exports through the improvement of the duty drawback and export
credit programs and construction of export processing zones; major simpli-
fication of Government procedures in specific subsectors; some improvement
in the GOI-s project evaluation and promotion procedures; and implementation
/1  The recent Rupiah devaluation of 27% should significantly reduce the
bias against export industries.



- 11 -
of initial steps to streamline regulations for the whole industrial sector.
The Bank will be working closely with the GOI in many of these areas and
will carefully monitor performance.
Financial Sector
29.       Institutional Framework.  The financial sector comprises Bank
Indonesia (BI, the Central Bank), five large state-owned commercial banks
with a network of more than 1,000 branches, 79 private banks, 10 branches of
foreign banks, 3 development finance companies, one equity investment bank
and 26 Provincial-level Regional Development Banks (RDBs). In addition to
its usual central bank functions, BI provides direct credit to state enter-
prises for priority projects, and refinance facilities at relatively low
interest rates for Government-sponsored credit programs. As of December 31,
1981, BI's direct credits accounted for 25% of the total credits outstand-
ing. The five state commercial banks dominate the commercial banking system
and, as of end-1981, held nearly 80% of all assets of banks accepting
deposits. Lending and deposit rates of state banks, the overall level of
their annual lending, and their lending priorities are determined by the
GOI. BAPINDO, the dominant Development Finance Company (DFC) in Indonesia,
was established in 1960 and reorganized in 1971 with Bank assistance and is
now a major source of medium- and long-term finance for industry. The other
three non-bank financial institutions (PDFCI, IDFC and PT BAIIANA) also grant
medium- and long-term credit and take equity participations, but their level
of operations is much lower than BAPINDO's. The RDBs are owned by regional
governments. Although designated as development banks, they have largely
provided commercial banking and treasury-type services to regional govern-
ments. In 1980, BI initiated a program to upgrade the operations of these
banks, aimed at transforming them into more effective development banks.
With the assistance of BAPINDO and IDFC, the upgrading program is making
good progress but more efforts are needed in training of RDB staff.
30.       Industrial Finance.  The asset structure of the financial system
is characterized by a dearth of long-term credits; short-term credits
account for approximately 75% of all credits to the manufacturing sector.
The paucity of long-term instruments has led to substantial rollover of
short-term credits, particularly by state commercial banks. To help meet
the need for long-term funds the GOI, through BI, directly finances certain
large-scale priority investments in the public sector and provides
refinance facilities for other industrial investments to state banks through
various Government-sponsored credit programs, e.g., the medium-term
investment credit program (KIB) for medium- and large-scale enterprises and
the small-scale investment/working capital credit program (KIK/KMEP) for
small enterprises. BI refinances 65-80% of loan amounts under KIB and up
to 100% under KIK/KMKP and charges state banks interest rates of 3-4% p.a.
on the refinanced portions (para. 32). The state commercial banks and
BAPINDO are the major channels of these term credits.  BAPINDO accounts for
about a third of outstanding term loans to the industrial sector. The
Jakarta Stock Exchange, reactivated in 1977, is still small; only 13
companies have gone public. While there is limited activity in bonds, a



- 12 -
number of public sector enterprises have recently floated or are planning
bond issues. BAPINDO itself recently floated a Rp 25 billion ($36 million)
bond issue.
31.       Policy Environment.  Current objectives of Indonesian financial
policy are: (a) the maintenance of price stability; (b) allocation of
credit to specific sectors in accordance with predetermined priorities; (c)
support for the weaker economic groups; and (d) promotion of institutions to
fill perceived gaps in the financial structure. The main monetary
instruments used by the GOI to pursue these objectives have been mandated
interest rates, credit ceilings and the discount window.
32.       The current interest rate structure for state banks, which has
been in effect since 1978, is characterized by an interlinked network of
lending, deposit and rediscount rates regulated by the GOI and BI. Lending
rates for short-term credits range from 9% to 21% p.a. with their weighted
average equal to 15% p.a. Interest rates on term credits vary from 10.5% to
13.5% p.a. for maturities from one to ten years, depending on loan size.
Deposit rates range from 3% to 15% p.a. depending on the type and maturity
of deposit. Over the period 1975-80, the level of lending rates consis-
tently lagged behind domestic inflation rates, leading to negative or low
positive real interest rates. Since 1981, however, when the annual infla-
tion rate fell to 7.1%, both lending and deposit rates became positive and
remained positive through 1982. With price adjustments in domestic oil
products, power tariffs and passenger fares, the domestic price level is
expected to increase. Domestic inflation is now projected to range from
11-13% p.a. in 1983-85./1 As a consequence, the current lending and deposit
rates could become marginally negative at least in the short run.
33.       Such negative interest rates contribute to misallocation of
resources, lead to increased subsidies from BI to support the operations of
state banks, and discourage savings. With fixed and low interest rates,
credit ceilings became necessary to control the expansion of credit. These
ceilings have created biases in favor of large and official borrowers at the
expense of new entrants to the credit market and, at times of increased
liquidity, combined with fixed interest rates, have encouraged state banks
to hold larger deposits abroad. To encourage the repatriation of state
banks deposits, BI is now offering them deposit rates comparable with
foreign deposit rates.
34.       The third policy instrument to channel credit to different
sectors, keep onlending rates low and to provide adequate margins for
onlending institutions has been the discount window. Under the present
provisions, credit is channeled to different activities by creating
/1 Projections of domestic inflation will require adjustment following
the March 30 devaluation.



- 13 -
differential incentives for financial intermediaries through the discount
rate and discount proportions. Such a selective approach has become too
cumbersome to administer and supervise, and, given the fungibility of money,
desired objectives for use of funds have not always been achieved.
35.       Financial Policy Reforms.  The Bank has had discussions with the
authorities on the need for reforming the current financial regime at the
macroeconomic level both in the context of the overall policy environment
and in relation to industrial finance. The country s tightening overall
resource position (para. 5 above) has also contributed to an -ncreasing
awareness on the part of the GOI of the importance of taking fundamental
measures to mobilize savings and improve the allocation of increasingly
scarce resources. Along with the raising of lending and deposit rates,
other reforms required would include the replacement of the system of
prescribed ceilings by a more demand-determined credit system, reduction in
the credit subsidies given through the discount window and liberalizing of
the credit allocation mechanism.
36.       The GOI is likely to follow a gradual and phased approach to
reform. In May 1982, it took steps to eliminate the rediscount facilities
for loans that are extended at interest rates of 13.5% p.a. This has affec-
ted about a third of the credits extended by state banks and has created
some pressure to raise the lending rates of the state banks, although no
change has taken place as yet. In addition, the current balance of payments
deficits and the GOI's efforts to start up a bond market will necessitate
serious consideration of the current interest rate structure and the asso-
ciated financial regime. The Bank is currently discussing these and other
policy issues in the context of rapidly changing international and domestic
circumstances described in Part I of this report. In connection with the
proposed loan to BAPINDO, the appraisal mission discussed the effect of the
present interest rate regime on BAPINDO and quantified the cost (Rp 64 bil-
lion in 1982, rising to Rp 334 billion by 1987) to the GOI of the subsidies
being provided to BAPINDO. This issue was again discussed with the repre-
sentatives of the GOI and BAPINDO during negotiations to illustrate some of
the costs involved in the present interest rate regime and to provide
support for the broader policy dialogue which is currently underway.
Bank Group-s Role in the Industrial and Financial Sectors
37.       The Bank Group's involvement in the Indonesian industrial sector
has aimed at: (a) supporting the GOI s investment program in key indus-
tries, such as fertilizer; (b) strengthening DFCs that provide term finance
for investments; (c) providing financial and technical assistance to
small-scale enterprises (SSEs); and (d) developing local capability for
establishing and operating industrial estates. To date, the Bank Group has
provided a total of $557.5 million to the industrial sector, via four loans



- 14 -
to BAPINDO ($157 million), two to PDFCI ($18 million), three for fertilizer
production ($220 million), two for small enterprise development ($146 mil-
lion) and one for industrial estates ($16.5 million).
38.       Since its first IDA credit in 1972, BAPITDO has made substantial
progress in institutional development. The Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 2563, dated June 29, 1979) on BAPINDO I (Credit 310-IND) stressed the
need for continued strengthening of BAPINDO's institutional capability,
project appraisal and supervision procedures and the need to maintain
BAPINDO-s operational autonomy. These points were taken into account in
BAPINDO IV (Loan 1703-IND) and are also fully reflected in the design of the
proposed BAPINDO V project. The BAPINDO IV loan was fully committed in the
first quarter of 1983 and disbursements are expected to be completed on
schedule by September 30, 1983. Apart from the significant institutional
improvements, BAPINDOTs lending under the Bank Group assistance has been
supportive of sound, priority projects. As of December 31, 1982, proceeds
of the BAPINDO IV loan have been extended to 54 subprojects with the average
ERR of 23.1% and IFRR of 20.1%,.which compare favorably with average ERR of
20.1% and IFRR of 17.4% under BAPINDO III (Loan 1437-IND). Incremental jobs
generated under BAPINDO IV numbered 7,551 at an investment cost per job of
about $46,000. While this suggests a fairly high capital intensity in
BAPINDO's operations, it is also indicative of the importance of large-
scale, resource-based industries (para. 23). At the same time, small and
medium industry receive very substantial support from BAPINDO and other
financial institutions under the GOI's KIK/KMKP program. The average cost
per job under BAPINDO's small credit operation is $5,800. On the whole,
BAPINDO's role in developing sound subprojects under Bank Group assistance
has been satisfactory.
39.       The Bank is developing a lending strategy that would address key
industrial and financial sector issues, following the thrust of the 1981
Industrial Sector Report, with detailed technical assistance on specific
policies and subsectors.  That report addressed the need for policy reform
on a broad range of issues, including the regulatory and licensing mechan-
ism, investment incentives, interest rate and rediscount mechanisms. Under
this strategy, the Bank would continue to be involved in policy issues where
progress can be made, and the lending operations, to the extent possible,
would be designed to support our policy objectives. Bank industrial-sector
lending would be of three types: (a) loans related primarily to trade
policy reforms - a first such project will focus on export promotion; (b)
loans to financial institutions (such as the one now proposed for BAPINDO),
that develop institutional capacity and provide a basis for continuing the
dialogue on financial sector reforms; and (c) subsector loans that focus on
policy issues at the subsector level. Technical assistance designed to
build up the institutional capability of project agencies would continue to
be stressed in all industrial development projects.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The project was prepared by the GOI and BAPINDO, a wholly-owned
Government bank. It was appraised in July/August 1982, and negotiations
were held in Washington March 16-21, 1983. The Indonesian negotiating
team was led by Mr. Marzuki Usman, Director of Financial Institutions,
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4286-IND) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
41.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to
provide foreign exchange to finance industrial projects; (b) to continue the
Bank-s ongoing technical assistance to upgrade BAPINDO's staff and improve
its organization to meet the rapid expansion of its operations; and (c) to
finance sector studies and technical assistance in support of industrial
policy reform. During the past decade, the Bank Group has provided BAPINDO
with advice and closely monitored its development impact and its progress in
institution-building.  BAPINDO has performed well, but as institutional
development is a long-term process, much remains to be done to make BAPINDO
more dynamic and efficient. Moreover, as it enters a new phase of expanded
and more complex operations, the problems it faces in the medium-term differ
from the ones of the 1970s. To meet these new challenges, BAPINDO needs to
continue ongoing reforms and further strengthen its capability in a number
of areas.
42.       Organization and Management.  BAPINDO is guided by a two-man
Supervisory Board who represent the Minister of Finance and the Governor of
BI.   Directly below is the five-man Board of Mianaging Directors, headed by
the President, who has held that position since 1971. This continuity at
the top level has been an important factor in BAPINDO's growth over the past
decade. Each of the four Managing Directors supervises four departments and
a portion of the branches. Replacement of two Managing Directors who
retired in 1980 and 1981 by experienced managers has further strengthened
the Board. While BAPINDO-s top management is effective, some adjustments at
the middle management level are now needed in response to the rapid growth
of its operations and portfolio (from 123 loans in 1978 to 1,303 loans in
1982) and to prepare it for its increasingly important role in industrial
development in the 1980s.
43.       The BAPINDO Act and its Policy Statement adopted in 1972 set out
BAPINDO's broad policies and operational guidelines. These policies are
supplemented by implementing regulations issued by the Board of Managing
Directors. Besides defining broad guidelines for BAPINDO's development



- 16 -
role, the Policy Statement limited BAPINDO's long-term debt/equity ratio to
a maximum of 3:1, and its total exposure and equity investments in a single
enterprise to 20% and 10% of its equity respectively; required that its
total equity investments not exceed its own total equity; and prohibited
BAPINDO from assuming the foreign exchange risk on foreign currency loans.
With a few exceptions, which were approved by its Supervisory Board, BAPINDO
has complied with its Policy Statement. In view of the growth of its
operations and the growing complexity of its activities, BAPINDO's Super-
visory board has now approved revisions in the Policy Statement in respect
of the "Managed Fund" provision (para. 59), BAPINDO's current and debt/equity
ratios (paras. 55 and 56), and its procurement policy (para. 69).
44.       In 1977, the GOI, BAPINDO and the Bank agreed on a comprehensive
Action Program designed to improve BAPINDO's organization, procedures,
resource mobilization, financial structure and profitability. BAPINDO made
considerable progress in implementing the Action Program. In early 1981,
BAPINDO's Board, assisted by a management consulting firm, reviewed
thoroughly what had been achieved and initiated a General Improvement
Program to further strengthen its organizational structure and prepare
BAPINDO for a larger role in industrial development.
45.       Under the 1981 General Improvement Program, BAPINDO established
the following new units: (a) a separate department to handle special credits
for small firms; (b) a new Funds Department to mobilize resources and manage
funds; (c) a Special Debtors Supervision Department to supervise projects in
difficulties; (d) an Education and Training Unit; (e) an Electronic Data
Processing Unit; and (f) a Planning and Budget Committee, to consolidate
and screen annual work programs and budgets before presentation to the
Board. This raised the number of Head Office Departments from 14 to 18. In.
addition, the number of branches rose from 10 to 18 through the upgrading of
representative offices. The process of reorganization, however, encountered
a number of difficulties which now need to be addressed to enable the insti-
tution to benefit fully from the major structural and procedural changes
required. Staffing the new departments and newly-elevated branches has been
particularly difficult due to BAPINDO's general shortage of experienced
staff and to inadequate staff recruitment and training. Overlapping of
functions within the Head Office and with branches exists, particularly in
project appraisal and supervision. BAPINDO will be implementing a number of
measures to address these problems in 1983/84, which include acceleration of
branch staff training, strengthening Head Office monitoring of branch per-
formance and simplifying reporting requirements for branches. There is also
a need to reinforce management's commitment to the corporate planning
process and to delegate more decision-making power so that management could
give more of its attention to BAPINDO's future directions and development
strategies.
46.       In 1982, BAPINDO conducted a comprehensive review of its progress
under the 1981 General Improvement Program and identified the remaining



- 17 -
problems which should be tackled during the next phase. Based on this
review, BAPINDO prepared a new Action Program for implementation during
1983/84, which, in addition to its specific operational activities in the
next two years, would constitute an important component of BAPINDO's
Development Strategy for 1983-85 (recently approved by BAPINTDOs Supervisory
and Managing Boards). The Action Program aims at addressing remaining
organizational problems related to the relationships between units in the
Head Office and between the Head Office and the branches (para. 45), staff
recruitment and training (paras. 47 and 48), project appraisal and super-
vision procedures (paras. 49 and 50) and planning and information systems
(paras. 51 and 52). A management consulting firm with experience in
upgrading development financial institutions would be hired and would
provide a four-man team of experts in personnel, human resource development
and training; corporate planning; management information systems; and
consulting services for helping BAPINDO in providing technical support to
the RDBs (para. 53). In addition, BAPINDO is planning to appoint an inter-
nationally recruited senior advisor specialized in development banking who
would advise on corporate strategy and on the implementation of the Action
Program, particularly those aspects relating to improvements in project
appraisal and supervision. An amount of $2.8 million would be earmarked
under the proposed Bank loan to finance 10 man-years of consultant services
over two years ($1.5 million), the cost of overseas training for 100 BAPINDO
staff ($1.0 million) and of specialized training devices ($0.3 million).
During negotiations, BAPINDO agreed that the senior advisor and consultants
would be engaged under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank by
September 30, 1983 (Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
47.       Staffing.  As of December 31, 1982, BAPINDO's total staff numbered
964, of which 585 were professionals. To keep pace with the increased
volume of operations, BAPINDO plans to increase the size of its staff at an
annual rate of about 12% p.a. over the next five years. The quality of
BAPINDO's staff has improved over time. However, there is a need in the
short-run for more trained and experienced project officers, particularly at
the branch level, and a need for longer-term career planning and staff
development programs. Under the project, the management consulting firm
mentioned above would include an advisor who would assist BAPINDO in imple-
menting appropriate staff development policies and streamlining BAPINDO's
personnel management.
48.       The training unit has developed a comprehensive training program
focusing on middle and advanced level courses on project appraisal, super-
vision and corporate planning. In preparing this program, the training unit
has also assessed the feasibility of expanding and modernizing training
facilities to accommodate staff from RDBs, and the need for additional
trainers and training materials. To ensure coordination between personnel
development and training policies, the advisor on personnel management would
also help BAPINDO implement a detailed training plan for 1983/84, including
in-house and overseas training, and develop appropriate course materials.



- 18 -
Financing for a limited amount of specialized training materials and devices
(micro-computers, slide projectors, etc.) would also be provided. In
addition, the proposed loan would finance the short visits and training of
100 selected staff outside the country.
49.       Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  BAPINDO-s appraisal stand-
ards have improved with experience and are generally of acceptable quality.
Financial and economic rates of return are routinely calculated on all loans
of $1 million and above. The analysis could be further improved with more
attention given to market analysis, the subsectoral policy environment and
international context of project proposals. BAPINDOs management is taking
a number of steps to improve project appraisal, including the formulation
and application of more rigid economic, financial and technical criteria and
the reduction of loan processing time. The training program described in
para. 48 is giving high priority to project appraisal, thus increasing the
number of trained appraisal staff. Several of the consultants referred to
in para. 46 will be providing assistance in improving appraisal standards.
Duplication between the Head Office and the branches is being reduced, and
the appraisal manual is being updated and improved.
50.       In project supervision, BAPINDO is paying more attention to
projects in difficulties. As the portfolio is growing rapidly, BAPINDO
would put emphasis on anticipating problems by taking advance measures,
including providing advice to clients on operational aspects of projects.
Coordination between the Head Office and branches would be further
strengthened to increase the efficiency of project supervision work. Within
the next two years, BAPINDO will address these problems by: (a) recruiting
and assigning more experienced staff to supervise projects; (b) consolidat-
ing and increasing the frequency of project monitoring reports; and
(c) increasing the frequency of supervision visits by Head Office staff to
the branches to improve coordination. The agreed timetable for implementing
these steps is contained in the 1983/84 Action Program and is satisfactory
to the Bank.
51.       Planning and Information Systems.  So far, BAPINDO's planning has
concentrated on setting operational targets and budget on an annual basis.
The current Five-Year Corporate Plan has yet to be linked effectively to
manpower and organizational performance and has therefore not been used
effectively as a management tool. The quality of the planning staff also
needs to be upgraded. BAPINDO recognizes the weakness of its planning
process and plans to strengthen it by training and recruiting new staff.
Under the project, one of the four-man management consulting team would be a
planning ad&-sor who would assist BAPINDO in formulating an integrated
corporate pla i and advise on necessary institutional arrangements and
guidelines t) implement and monitor the plan.
52.       Over the years, BAPINDO had developed a comprehensive system of
reporting. However, reports prepared by the Head Office units and branches
are overly descriptive and long, making it difficult for various levels of



- 19 -
management to evaluate them properly. BAPINDO-s management information
system (MIS) needs to be strengthened, and the process of computerization
needs to be accelerated. Under the project, the management consulting firm
would provide an MIS consultant with a strong computer background who would
assist BAPINDO in streamlining and computerizing its management information
procedures. A specific timetable for computerizing and simplifying report-
ing procedures at the Head Office and branches is set out in BAPINDO's
detailed Program of Action for 1983/84.
53.       Assistance to Regional Development Banks.  BAPINDO is currently
engaged in providing technical assistance to 18 RDBs to strengthen their
management and organization, accounting and reporting systems and term
lending capability. The two-year program, .which is sponsored by BI and
funded under the Bank-assisted Second Small Enterprise Development Project
(Loan 2011-IND), has been completed, but BI has proposed to extend it for
another two to three years. BAPINDO's consultancy group would need to be
assisted in order that they could carry out their assistance programs over
the next two years more effectively. Under the project, the management
consulting firm would also provide an advisor on the consultancy profession
to assist this group plan its work program, coordinate training for RDB
staff and organize subcontracting of tasks on which BAPINDO lacks the
expertise, e.g., accounting systems.
54.       Operations.  Since 1978 when BAPINDO was last appraised, BAPINDO s
operations have recorded an unprecedented expansion. Total loans and equity
investments approved annually have increased from Rp 35 billion ($50 mil-
lion) in 1978 to Rp 559 billion ($799 million) in 1982, an average annual
growth rate of 103%. BAPINDO's loans and equity investments outstanding
rose from Rp 120 billion ($171 million) at end-1978 to Rp 578 billion
($826 million) as of December 31, 1982. BAPINDO has financed a few very
large projects, notably cement, plywood, paper, textile and oil-drilling
rigs. Consequently, the average size of industrial investment loans
increased from Rp 379 million ($541,000) in 1978 to Rp 605 million
($864,000) in 1980 and to Rp 3,935 million ($5.6 million) in 1982.
BAPINDO's investment loans have been reasonably distributed to various
sectors, with relatively higher exposure in textiles, plywood and cement in
recent years, reflecting the high priority assigned by the GOI to such
projects. During 1978-82, about 65% of loan commitments continued to be
concentrated in Java. However, the concentration changed dramatically in
1981 when Java only accounted for 32%, due to a large cement project in West
Sumatra accounting for 34% and four wood processing projects in Kalimantan
accounting for about 22%. With the emphasis on resource-based industries,
this trend is likely to continue. The average maturity of investment loans
has remained around eight years, compared with about six years for working
capital loans. About 80% of the number and 52% of the amount of loans
committed during 1978-82 have been for expansion/modernization purposes;
during the same period, private sector industrial loans accounted for 90% of
the number and 77% of the amount of total approvals.



- 20 -
55.       Financial Position and Performance.  BAPINDO's total assets grew
at an average annual rate of 43% during 1978-80, 64% in 1981 and rose
further by 55% during 1982. The loan and equity portfolio increased from
79% of total assets in 1978 to 88% in 1982. There was some deterioration in
BAPINDO's liquidity position as the current ratio decreased from 1.5 to 1 in
1978 to 1.3 to 1 in 1982. This decline reflects BAPINDO's inability to
generate and obtain from BI, on a timely basis, sufficient resources to
match the accelerated pace of its operations. To avoid delays in project
implementation, BAPINDO has had to draw down its own liquidity, including
term resources, to make initial disbursements. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained from the GOI that adequate funding would be provided
by GOI to BAPINDO to meet its projected program for 1983-85 (Section 4.04
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, a minimum current ratio
(1.15:1) is stipulated in BAPINDO's Policy Statement (para. 43). The
pace of BAPINDO-s loan approvals and disbursements during 1983-85 would be
synchronized with the flow of funds from its own operations and from the
rediscount facilities from BI so as to maintain the agreed current ratio.
56.       BAPINDO's equity has increased from Rp 63 billion ($90 million)
at end-1978 to Rp 89 billion ($127 million) at end-1981, and was Rp 102 bil-
lion ($146 million) as of December 31, 1982. However, the growth of
BAPINDOs long-term debt outpaced that of its equity. Consequently, the
long-term debt to equity ratio, which, from 1972 to 1978 had remained below
1.0:1, rose to 2.8:1 at the end of 1981, and to 4.3:1 by December 31, 1982.
Before the ratio rose above 3.0:1, BAPINDO requested the Bank's agreement to
increase the 3:1 limit prescribed in the Project Agreements on the previous
Bank operations, so that it could expand its operations further. BAPINDO-s
request is justified, given the fact that its portfolio is basically sound,
the bulk of its long-term debt obtained from BI is on favorable terms and
its debt service cover will remain adequate. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the debt/equity limit would be raised to 6:1 (Section 4.07 of
the draft Project Agreement). This ratio is prudent and will not jeopardize
BAPINDO's financial position (para. 68).
57.       BAPINDO's net profit increased almost four times from Rp 1.1 bil-
lion ($1.6 million) in 1978 to Rp 4.1 billion ($5.9 million) in 1981 and
increased further by 70% in 1982. Because of the rising weight of low cost
loans from BI in BAPINDO's debt, the average cost of debt declined from
10.1% in 1978 to 7.3% in 1982, resulting in an increase in gross interest
spread from 2.7% to 5.3%.  Administrative expenses as a percentage of
average total assets declined from 3.7% in 1978 to 2.7% in 1981 and further
to 2.5% in 1982. However, annual provisions for losses remained high. As a
result, the return on average total assets showed much slower growth, from
0.8% in 1978 to 1.2% in 1981 and 1.3% in 1982.
58.       Quality of Portfolio.  Due to the depressed economic conditions in
Indonesia and more difficult external market conditions arising from the
world-wide recession, the quality of BAPINDO-s portfolio, after showing an



- 21 -
improving trend in 1979-80, began to deteriorate in 1982. Loan amounts in
arrears (over three months) rose from Rp 5.0 billion or 1.5% of outstanding
portfolio in 1981 to Rp 11.3 billion or 2.1% in 1982, after rescheduling of
Rp 26.8 billion. Loans affected by arrears, amounting to 5.3% of term loans
outstanding at the end of 1981, increased to 9.7% by December 31, 1982 (4.4%
in 1980). Despite these increases in arrears and reschedulings, which should
be seen against the background of the presently depressed economic condi-
tions, BAPINDO's portfolio can still be considered satisfactory.  Moreover,
provisions, amounting to 3.7% of outstanding portfolio at the end of 1982,
are adequate to cover potential bad debt. However, to ensure that the
arrears position does not deteriorate any further, BAPINDO has reviewed the
loan portfolio and has prepared a report which analyzes factors behind the
arrears. The report recommends remedial measures, including financial
restructuring of affected companies, debt rescheduling in exceptional cases,
changes in management personnel, and technical assistance efforts. In light
of the recommendations of this portfolio review, BAPINDO has developed and
would implement a specific set of monitorable actions, including the
maintenance of a 75% collection rate, which are set out in the 1983-84
Action Program.
59.       Managed Fund.  In 1977, BAPINDO set up the "Managed Fund" mechanism
for those projects which were considered by the GOI to be of national
importance but were either too large or were for other reasons not covered
under BAPINDO's normal investment policy. The funds for such projects are
provided by the GOI, and BAPINDO does not assume any financial risk, simply
charging a fee for handling. BAPINDO has, in recent years, used the "Managed
Fund" to channel GOI loans from foreign sources into a few large public sector
projects. As the GOI is shifting direct financing of a number of public
sector industrial projects to financing by banking institutions, BAPINDO is
likely to be entrusted with the responsibility of processing some of the
projects. To safeguard BAPINDO's viability as a financial institution,
BAPINDO has incorporated in its revised Policy Statement a provision that
stipulates that: (a) BAPINDO will apply its normal appraisal procedures to all
projects presented to it for financing and will accept only those projects
that meet its established economic, financial and technical criteria; and (b)
BAPINDO shall use the "Managed Fund" for all Government-sponsored projects,
acting as an agent, without assuming any credit risk and for an adequate fee.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached with the GOI and BAPINDO on
the specific language and procedures for the "Managed Fund" (para. 43).
60.       Investment Outlook.  Due to uncertainties related to the world
recession and the continued stagnancy in oil prices, the overall investment
outlook in the medium-term is difficult to forecast. It is, however,
certain that the rapid growth in gross investments in Indonesia of 12% p.a.
in the 1970s is not likely to be repeated in the next five years; public
investments will slow down due to budgetary constraints and private invest-
ments, which expanded by 10% p.a. in the 1970s, would also increase at a
much slower pace of, say 4% p.a. in real and 14% p.a. in nominal terms for



- 22 -
the period 1983-87. Consequently, BAPINDO's financing operations in the
industrial sector in the next five years are also going to grow at a slower
pace than the previous five-year period.
61.       Projected Operations and Resource Requirements.  Given the
uncertain investment outlook, BAPINDO plans to slow down the growth of its
operations in the next two years. Slowing down its operations during this
period would allow BAPINDO some time to undertake measures to further con-
solidate its operations and improve its institutional capability. Not-
withstanding 1982 actual approvals, BAPINDO projects total loan and equity
inve-stment approvals to grow by 12.5% p.a. in nominal, or 2.5% p.a. in real
terms, during 1983-87 (compared with over 100% p.a. in 1978-82). No new
equity investments are expected to be made in 1983 and only small amounts
are projected for 1984-87. For 1983-85, the period during which the
proposed loan is to be committed, total commitments are estimated at Rp 687
billion ($981 million), of which Rp 149 billion ($213 million), or 22%,
would correspond to the foreign exchange content of the program./l
BAPINDO's pipeline includes projects in textiles, food, pharmaceuticals,
lumber, glass, cement and maritime sectors. BAPINDO-s projections and
underlying assumptions appear realistic and, given the support of BI and the
GOI, should be not pose any problems in terms of funding and absorptive
capacity. BAPINDO has incotporated its projected level of activities in the
new Development Strategy Statement for 1983-85. Net profit is projected to
increase from Rp 7.0 billion ($10 million) in 1982 to Rp 25.0 billion ($36
million) in 1987 at an average growth rate of 29% p.a. This is attributable
to the expansion in portfolio and other income generating assets.
62.       As in the past BAPINDO would continue to rely on GOI/BI resources
and the Bank loan to meet its projected commitments during 1983-85. Of the
projected lending program of Rp 687 billion, Rp 40 billion or 6% of total
commitments would come from the Ministry of Finance, Rp 335 billion (49%)
from BI and BAPINDO-s own funds will constitute 25%. The balance of 20%
will come from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. With the above
blending of funds, the weighted average cost of funds committed to BAPINDO
would be 6.7%. Since the bulk of its term loans would be extended at 13.5%
p.a., its overall spread will be about 6% which is sufficient to maintain its
/1 These projections do not take into account the effects of the March
30, 1983 devaluation of the Rupiah. However, BAPINDO, in consultation
with the GOI, has reviewed its projected lending program following the
devaluation. The revised projections of commitments during 1983-85
amount to Rp 745 billion ($768 million). The increase of Rp 58 bil-
lion is due mainly to the increase in the foreign exchange component
of the program as expressed in Rupiah, based on the new exchange
rate. As a result of this devaluation, the ratio of Bank funds to
total project costs rises from 20% (as reflected in para. 62) to 26%,
and the foreign exchange component of project costs rises from 22% to 28%.



- 23 -
financial viability./l During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
GOI would provide the necessary funds to support BAPINDO's projected
operations in 1983-85 on terms to enable BAPINDO to maintain an adequate
level of profitability (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Proposed Bank Loan
63.       Loan Components.  The proposed Bank loan of $208.9 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.5 million) would be made to
the GOI. The GOI would onlend $203.3 million (including the corresponding
front-end fee of $0.5 million) to BAPINDO under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
acceptable to the Bank, the signing of which would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. BAPINDO would use $200 million for financing (a) industrial
projects, and (b) ships, whose aggregate would not exceed $60 million, or
30% of the credit component. The balance of $2.8 million would be used by
BAPINDO to finance technical assistance for two years including: (a) a top
level advisor and a management consultant team of four experts on training
and personnel development, management information systems, corporate
planning and consulting techniques for 24 months at a cost of $12,500 per
man-month, totalling $1.5 million; (b) overseas study tours for 100 staff at,
a cost of $10,000 per person totalling $1.0 million; and (c) purchase of
specialized training equipment at $300,000. The portion ($5.6 million
including the corresponding front-end fee) which is not onlent to BAPINDO
would be used for technical assistance by the GOI for export promotion-
related studies and for detailed sectoral studies on engineering industries,
pulp and paper, textiles, steel, cement and wood processing, which the GOI
is assigning priority for addressing policy issues at the subsector level.
Retroactive financing in an amount not to exceed $400,000 would be provided
for expenditures made after March 1, 1983, for technical assistance related
to export promotion, in order to allow GOI to initiate the relevant studies
as quickly as possible. A selected number of Government officials from
designated agencies may avail themselves of a portion of the technical
assistance funds for short-term overseas training/study tours. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the Ministry of Finance would
allocate the technical assistance funds in the form of budgetary transfers
to the respective executing agencies, e.g., Ministry of Industry, Ministry
of Trade, etc. (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Onlending Arrangements.  The Government would onlend the proceeds
of the Bank loan to BAPINDO at an interest rate not exceeding 11.0%, thus
bearing the risk from the variable Bank interest rate. The front-end fee
would be capitalized and passed on to BAPINDO. BAPINDO would onlend to
/1 With the increase in the ratio of Bank funds to total project cost (see
footnote, para. 61 above), the weighted average cost of funds to
BAPINDO rises marginally from 6.7% to 7.1%. This does not jeopardize
BAPINDO s overall spread or financial viability.



- 24 -
sub-borrowers at interest rates set by the GOI for term loans, currently
ranging from 10.5% to 13.5% p.a. depending on loan size. Given the large
average size of subloans, the bulk of the loan proceeds would be extended at
the upper range, giving BAPINDO a spread of about 2.5% on Bank funds. This
spread is adequate given the fact that BAPINDO has access to lower cost
funds from the GOI and BI which would give BAPINDO an average spread of
about 6% during 1983-85. The GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk on the
entire loan. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI would
discuss with the Bank each fiscal year the level, timing and manner of the
financial support to be provided by GOI, BI and other sources to BAPINDO for
the following fiscal year, taking into account BAPINDO's profitability,
development strategy and lending program (Section 4. 04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  Assurances were also obtained that BAPINDO's Eblicy Statement and
Development Strategy Statement, which set out, inter alia, operational policy
guidelines and projected lending levels, would not be amended except in
agreement with the Bank (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
65.       As usual with Bank loans to DFCs, the component ($200 million) for
financing subprojects would have a flexible amortization schedule conforming
substantially to the aggregate repayment schedules of subloans, the maximum
term for which would be 15 years, including a grace period. For the repay-
ment of the component ($8. 3 million) for technical assistance for the GOI
and BAPINDO and the related front-end fee, the prevailing country terms of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, would apply.
66.       Free Limit.  BAPINDO's appraisal capability and procedures have
continually improved. While further improvement is needed, an increase in
the free limit appears justified under the proposed loan. It was, there-
fore, agreed that the free limit ($1.2 million under the previous Bank loan)
would be increased to $2.0 million, with an aggregate free limit of $80 mil-
lion, or 40% of the amount available for financing subprojects (Section
2.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). With this free limit, it is estimated
that 40% of subprojects, accounting for about 60% of the proposed loan,
would require Bank review prior to approval. This should be sufficient for
the purpose of effective subproject monitoring by the Bank.
67.       Subloan Ceilings.  To ensure that the proceeds of the proposed
loan would be spread out over a relatively large number of projects, a
ceiling of $6 million (compared with $3 million under the previous Bank
loan) would be set for the subloans financed by the Bank loan (Section 2. 04
of the draft Project Agreement). This increase is justified, given past and
expected inflation, BAPINDO's increased capacity to appraise larger projects
effectively and the changing composition of BAPINDO-s subloans.
68.       Debt/Equity Ratio.  For reasons mentioned in para. 56, the maximum
long-term debt/equity ratio limit for BAPINDO would be raised to 6:1. The



- 25 -
GOI would need to provide additional share capital to sustain this ratio.
During negotiations, the GOI agreed that it would make the required equity
contribution to BAPINDO (estimated at Rp 30 billion during the period
1983/84 - 1985/86) to maintain a debt/equity ratio of 6:1 or less (Section
4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). A suitable amendment has been incor-
porated in BAPINDO's Policy Statement to reflect the new long-term
debt/equity ratio limit.
69.       Procurement.  BAPINDO's procurement procedures are satisfactory.
BAPINDO requires that all sub-borrowers of investment loans obtain three
price quotations from suppliers/contractors, which are then analyzed by
staff to ensure that goods and services obtained are procured at competitive
prices. Given the increasing size of individual contracts to be financed
under the proposed loan, sub-borrowers would be required to follow inter-
national competitive bidding procedures in tendering large contracts.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that individual contracts (except
those on used ships) of more than $5 million to be financed under the pro-
posed loan would be awarded after international competitive bidding (Section
3.01(a) of the draft Project Agreement). This procurement policy has been
incorporated in BAPINDO's Policy Statement (para. 43). BAPINDO would review
bid documents and the borrower's evaluation thereof and submit them to the
Bank, and the proposal to award would be subject to prior approval by the
Bank. In the event that such procedures were not followed because of the
need for equipment standardization or other reasons, a justification for not
using international competitive bidding would be spelled out in the sub-
project appraisal report which would be subject to Bank approval before
authorization of disbursement under the loan. For used ships, international
competitive bidding would not be appropriate because of qualitative differ-
ences and therefore BAPINDO's normal procedures would be applied. Consult-
ant services and other technical assistance provided under the project would
be recruited following normal Bank guidelines. The selection of consultants
and their terms of reference would be subiect to prior Bank approval.
Procurement of training materials and devices, most of which would be
obtained in small quantities through local suppliers or representatives of
foreign suppliers, would be based on BAPINDO-s procedures, which provide for
adequate competition and are acceptable to the Bank.
70.       Disbursement.  BAPINDO's existing disbursement procedures have
been satisfactory. Disbursements will be made against full documentation
for: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
goods and materials; (b) 60% of the cost of domestically procured goods
and equipment, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of
those goods; (c) 50% of the cost of civil works; and (d) 100% of expendi-
tures for consultants and overseas training. Disbursement is expected to be
completed over five years. This disbursement pattern is conservative and
based on BAPINDO's experience under previous Bank loans and the disbursement
profile of industrial development and finance lending in the East Asia and
Pacific Region.



- 26 -
Benefits and Risks
71.       The proposed project would support the ongoing dialogue on specific
policy reforms in the financial and industrial sectors. It will further
improve the operational efficiency of BAPINDO to enable it to assume a larger
role in accelerating Indonesia's industrialization. The project would also
strengthen the support for RDBs and thus contribute to the development of
financial institutions in the regions. Based on past experience, the
industrial and maritime subprojects financed under the proposed loan are
expected to have high financial and economic returns. It is estimated that
18,000- full-time jobs would be created by these subprojects, at an average
cost per job of about $46,000.  The average cost per job is still high because
of BAPINDO's continued support for resource-based projects. Small and medium
industries will continue to receive very substantial support from the
Government special credit programs in which BAPINDO is actively participating.
There are two possible risks associated with the project. First, BAPINDO may
continue to expand at a fast pace before the staff and organization are
sufficiently strengthened. Second,- public pressure on BAPINDO to undertake
large public sector projects could mount and thus jeopardize the quality of
its portfolio. The risks are minimized by specifying the reasonable rate of
growth of BAPINDO's operations projected in its Development Strategy for
1983-85, which was agreed upon by the GOI and the Bank. The use of the
"Managed Fund" mechanism, combined with application of normal appraisal
procedures for all large Government-sponsored projects, would protect
BAPINDO's portfolio. Therefore, the risks associated with the project are
minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and BAPINDO and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. A special condition of effectiveness is the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the GOI and BAPINDO (para. 63). Other
special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 27 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 20, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFEENCE QWOUPS (WEXIGHTD AVERAAES
AOEA (THOUSAND SQ.                                                   REM.)EN          -  DST RECENT ESTIMATE)' 
TOTAL           1919 3                                         D{OST RECENT    LOW INCOME         MIDDLE IN-OHE
AGRICULTURAL     316.5                 1960  /b   1970 /b    ESTIMATE /b   ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA A PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     80.0       140.0           430.0             261.4                 890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        124.7       121.9           225.4            448.7                 701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    94680.0   116143.0         146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    14.6         17.1           20.2             17.3                  32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                          2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          49.3        60.5            74.6            158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       355.9       378.8           452.4            355.9                1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            40.7        44.0            40.1             36.8                  39.9
15-64 YRS.                            56.2        53.4            56.9             59.7                  56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.1         2.5             3.1              3.5                   3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.1         2.0             2.3              2.0                   2.3
URBAN                                 3.7         3.6             4.0              3.3                   3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.8        40.7            35.3             29.3                  31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.5        17.2            13.3             11.0                   9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8         2.7             2.2              2.0                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..      181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       .,         0.2            27.1             19.3                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
fNDEX OF PO0D PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             93.0       102.0           113.0            108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      86.3        93.9           101.7/c           97.3                 106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             38.2        42.4            44.87T           56.9                  54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           5.6         6.2             6.67;E          20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        22.9        16.8            11.3             10.9                   6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.2        47.3            53.1             57.8                  59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             149.9       120.9            92.7             89.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          3.0           12.0/d           32.9                  32.0
URBAN                                  ..        10.0            35.c7a           70.7                  51.9
RURAL                                  ..          1.0            6.67a           22.2                  20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                          ,                  12.0            15.0/e           18.1                  37.7
URBAN                                  ..        50.0            60.O7;            72.7                 65.7
RURAL                                  ..         4.0             5.07             4.7                  24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            46778.7    26498.5          13674.6           3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4517.0      7672.8          8871.6           4929.3                4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1360.3      1644.6         1609.9/d          1100.4                1047.5
URBAN                                251.8         ..           699.07a          301.3                 651.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..          3166i87T         5815.7                2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..            22.4/e              ..                  27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.4         4.8
URBAN                                 4.9         5.3
RURAL                                 4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          1.5
URBAN                                  ..          1.6
RURAL                                  ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..             ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..              ..



- 29 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-I1
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0             97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0            22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)       20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                38.8         28.9             37.2             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.1             17.0             20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.1          2.1              3.5/c            1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             41.9             35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              8.6              3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0          ..             17.7/d           16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       2.8           ..              0.87T             3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.8         30.9             29.3             29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.0         10.0            12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             20.9             23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF bOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..              6.6/..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0            133.8                   194.7
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0            111.5                   155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0               ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                     ..          ..             51.0             51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Jc   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



-30-                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIltiS OF SXOCIL I5SIrATSRS
ors:Alhough, the dote  rs dre, froa               g out ..genraly judged the -at suthorteti-e 00d  ulblbe.  it should also be notd thr they soy rot be intte-
aiosly ospr ble   aos  of the tech of aisderdisad,dfi.itleuseod cocPts use.d by differeuttaoutries  to co                        tcre    he date.  The dot. err,toe
them_s, useful to describe orders ofsgotr.idicace treuda. uod cho___tiot certain  -1- diff-eorce   brcaoocotnis
TOre reeec gop   r  ()th  sase coty group of the uuhjecr oucotry eud (2) a cou.ttey group etch eeehtc higher ererge iocase  h.. cho coutry group
of the  ob jeacaoouto (eucey  for   "igh Ir...    oil Eoporets" group obe-  'Middle I..o.- North Afr ica ed Ciddle test" is chua.s bt.res  of etroger
so-ocurelefiotis)            .lthe rf.lereoc   group date ta  -rrgee are popoletioo  -Iehttoe  eritlsecac secos tar eu               dicato  agd eho-  oly char
ojoloty of ahs cuugirs ira.groop hoe dart for th    ldictror.  tiro. the  orerage of cooottisa a.og the ludicoto    deped  or cbs ere-iabliry of date
sod ha ro   tios  ostior soo  he eerts.d i.tolreisog   -.eage. of 000 idiccor no asother.  The. -eartgee ar  ouly usful  tocoparing the    ...r of
car itdica-c  ataite ason  the coutry cud ref.eateo     groups.
IggA  (rhausod aq.k.)                                                                                Houaic  taSanita1 Sad - coral,  -ro.ad rural - yoyoloroon  (rotal,
Tora1 - Total -urfoce urea  Ptowiuirg  lod area cd toleodureo  1979 duto.                            crbao, sod rural)  lirdd by rhair reepetire rushe  of boepitel bds
dorla-ltate1 - Eartrota ofogiltr area use d tesporetily or parseseely                                aoilbi  in Public sod prirarr9 g..ro a1 ad ecocIlotted hasyitoledr
or crops, p-oroce  eerke  and kirahso Sardeso or to  Ie. fello; 1979 data.                        hebilitarioocecure-   Hospital- sore  .-rblihaoeer  perooetly staffed
by ar leo..t cue phys1i.la. Efetblieh-utuc ycoidirg prlacipally costa-
Gthy P. CAPITA fiUl) - ISP per coyOte etiae    t  u-ret soket yricee, ca1-                             dia  l.cor  are ro  isdalded.  Rtaro  haspicelS. hoso.ror  Include health
cloed bys te  aoesa  te thal as tiarld grb  tas(1.790-90 bautuf; 1906,                            and teditoo   rcrnoty1r ol  oof hod by A pytyslcls   (hut byI
1970, a-d t980 dteoid1 .                                                                            selot    teiseoc   nurse. sief. etc.)richof,1far l-aretaas
dtto  ted pro-ido a lielcud rot  atE          dclfclte. Ia Oatis
1E000Y lCNSUSOTION PtR CAPITA - ,AoA.l tonsuspti-or             -di11 atcti-ilcery(oo                   lo  yuryoeeie. cra  busyitla. toclole WO.O Princiy1/gecre1 hoapirole.
-rd ligoire, ptrlos,oool goo aad hydra-, o-1-o  end geothrso  ria-:                                 etd rucl.  hasytols  loca  or euro1 h-pirals cad sedtal cad soterricy
oriciry) ho kil.t-gu     of coal equh-le_  yr..pt.:ta  1960. 197f, sod 1979                         ceour-   Speciolleod haupiltlo  are included oaiy  oder tota.
daco.                                                                                             Adeiaio.. yt- H.syita1 Sad - Tor-I oebrr of adoiooa. to or diuchorgan
tru hoayitolu dloldod by tie octet of brdo.
POPUIATIONAdM  ftITALS TATIyTIC
Total yopoleclo"a, Mid-Ye-  (th-o...rduf - to oh July 1; 1960, 1970, aod 19Sf                    OUINGIIS
dote.                                                                                           Ar-rs  SiOta of KO..ohluld (cersot  ynr hacorhald)    total. cb,   an- dcrl
Icbor        fioltla  (percenr of roral) - Sati  of ochac to total poyolauiar;                      A hase-     I..nutt  of A trop of lrdirldost. tft   Abr  liriag qoatroer
dofferordohfirfiuos   of  rborau soy offect caporbility of doto                                   oo  tbhoir_sh  tel.A boarder or lodger say ccsy oar be lo-laded it
_asogocoo..trir; 1960, 1970,  _d lhgy d_ro                                                         the hi..uebld for-     atuiopycyus
rorolariceporcoo                                                                                  Aoeroooa-becaf !  rrrsooyo   c a-iota 1, b.ta, od carl1 - ac-cage oar-
ruultcot  yret l'll - C-t-cyylotopo ecc-icc- ace booed on19ffhto   eoooyrtc  to~ oil ottort. and -co tot aciol ......t.ouo.
ttl   yy- ercuby ago and sea otd thnic rorrolir.y.oud fothility coo.dellioge,repo                                   Wreyif.llltfoAut1odr.o...-yccooetrc --o-ttrru d
projoctiar p-corocec  for sor_lf     y rcscorr   tthree leolo otal-                             Puoye    actf.'
hog !if. ropcssoy at birth Occo irr0h    touoy'o 7cr topiro  Oco                             Ac-.sac  fleofrtticc  (pleroat of dur1idearo   - coto, ocbac, aud rura  -
lutel,ard fsolo lgo coactuoy 'tobiloinig at 77.5 yoe Tb aa-lCreot ito ...1 edlliog    Ich 1euc-icity ho 1ioiog quatruc  or                                       tafn
.eeof r  fciltry            h-tao  br  three lere1o .asuouo  d ir-  Or                   or total, urboo. ad c-1o daelliog  rsysctfi-ly.
tochoonotry he thor ouriged coo ofclad           aa tb oohonatiot   fsraiy                 atIT
and fertility ucerda far yrajeorcot       ayaet                                               Adjoatod Etucal1-  lotion
_urcsyctltio-   IAstIrior.. ~yayul           hia tboriona gco-'hnir                       Prisory och-o  - total, sole aol fesole -Iruot total, sole aad fraulo
rhehll  11,irob Iern   oooaoltohedeo -beto, -cdaoorcrog atltuc -aro             -                 etralseoro fealiageo ttthoypusotylIa...u  ya.c.. t.g.. oe   f ...spe...lor
_sa.lootu atar.  Tho   oahorlol  otter  trtility core  deoli-or to,yiuacy eohbool-age yayIll..u; uccually itctodeu child c   ae  6-Il
the coyloctert le-I of colt tet repredotito cage, eheu oahb gaeroraiar                            yroe hoc udjosrod fta  differont legtu of ytriury  acottaro; for
PI'                   ...loestolt taacty.  ThestotoooaryycytttooirerA                       lootieaoith -cr-1cuold-taiottnrollnuecteey....adllf percoor
-=tsoudoorh fh-biio  f  h  po ecd ohoro-ceriotlo   atth. -pulaio tcc   ros  coyila a   briar or aba- the officto1 eabool ee
itheynSri00.adthototu.Ofdo-olo ft f-ftrrlicyretttcrtyho-etr-0- Oo drsth.ol --tcta, ale -d fooo - C.ryorod otab_rr;uood
sot   "ere.                                                                                       adu..otiau reqticealou...  four yraru of opyr-od yriuary dr-tr-olot;
Teo  -tocatory toro        ...la-lc  tOobd - Tho year abet sootio..ary poyalatico.. irod'or g.r.ro.  raaiul,o   eco   rca",illt"Otrt ..t for yay,",
ois roll be rea-bed.                                                                               ...Illyftfrolyytocacfato  B;cotcyod_teoure r                         o-oa-lcy
Per uo. it. -Msd-year ypoplati.pat ye   q,aro kil-stec  (100 herarra) of                        ycrolrrA'ilsoar (retec 'ofr . neodor) - fo-otlac-  iraltOtoi-r
total areo  1900, 197 aol d1979 dec.                                                            irolodo  tebicuI.          Madulol, or oth_ ycgrns which oalaetr  Oudopend-
ret s. As.  gioulturl loand - Couo-d toahoc-  faragloltclalod                                     etly oras I             fyroo a a, oAc-ndoryictatoo
cl;1f,1977 aol 1979 d"aua                                                              ycyl-tach- ratio - oisry. aol.. neoddry - Tato1  toadeao scrolled to
fot,a.ation on, tSrucoco  (yrc-ttf - Childreo  10-14 yeors(, eackig-age (If-                        ptlsacyordooooodory Ioels diooded bycohr  of  -hotbe. i~ thr
ht yea-a(.adrItlred  (65 yeo-nodotla   acetogco ofrod-y.racpoyo-                                   .....upaodioglor
Oala;f10.  iff, and 1900 data.                                                             Adult loceruar rae        ycr ..   - liteotadoOt         blao 10 c  read aod trite)
Porolaoor treth loe (ourech) -total - llro  groeth  ae.. of totol nOd-                  os     -uceocage ofrrlool   outa   ogod 15 yeaac  aol aroc
yeoryaoloocoo1 Ifar 19f-l   90-,oAd 197-0l
rPrloriani  gyteth Iate fr5Ecot) -arbor-  -aIo l gooh catet 0t urban  .pc-                      CaOOtOtTtco
ltoofor 1951-60,19260-70,I aol' 19ff-.                                                     Panre   os(u   hoadrylto)-Pregcotol -asyise soty
Crodo Borh tara (pur rtod)- MAcal. Ire- birth  yoo thb.....d of otd-Oec00c  t-arict let that eight y-arnor; e-tldra  ahooor. hoaruou d
yyatioo; 19O0, .1970, aol 1980 Iota.                                                           tcl itoy  _ct ta
Iuotoh St   gtrao (- Macal doocho Per thaco...d  of sl-rrllotoloo(c   loadyclafrR                                                               l  ye       eerc    a   ol
yaralotic  1960, 1970, aol tylo doto.                                                             brand..cantoc  tootral ynblfc per thoonard of poplotlac;  ..clodroor
trr   ordtioloetrcf    utra  labEtnuoa  01  bocI                                             lcuofeceoanI  ootcr  al    yearn                       e ubr  ttocthanof  al
blacooR aa= teycad act          ..tyc .al `fhoooy htrocr      -cscaoeaa    oOftcfrr- i             srcoa        i-ofutlacoi      ocrced yocooyhegasrt bl dirc
litlttyrateo;u....lly  floe-year  -recoat  ..diog Or 10.  1970. aad 1980.                         tatcctitabo1iuhud 11-e-iog.
Orily ylaaoiru-loo. t""to   ata  (th"aouodo)             A-toa  oucho  of ocetoro t...' Ooo-io   (pro  choo...od PoPulatlco) -                       1110 eorec  farbrodo..utta
at b hOcr-oarc1 Irrica  udtc auspIces of rooo   fas,iy yL.aruOo  progras.                         fg-e-ol poblio per th-Aood ypoPlac_r; ecoldee  _oldeI             d      lt ecei_ea
ofcAdin   uerla ag  (15-4 yIf     ru I  10 ur   lu-cootro  dirtiedt                      Se     ...poyuc  lic da Oco (yetl rhe.oo  rorcOacl          -        ihc  teouro ic-df
oil sortlurateo  I  oaseP agIe goy.                                                                colothloc a)  'daily  getcc1lNinhepeoC  certaper,  def,t rd   ooo  tdira
yabli-tri- drare.d pcioaily to  --codirg geattal oes..  ft io     . c inoldcd
yloy AoNl NUTRITION                                                                                    to h  "duily" if Or uyypurs at It...t four tOsroAso
rodeo at yocd y_aduocaoye  Cupiu  (lyfy-yl100( - todoo of yor capIta aoul                         Ccr oolAfoocBe lorrfa-ae   or. d                                thu ousha of
yrodoctioy  of all foal Mcyo   tr.  fr_d_inooaeolodrr seed at: drod aol                          ficker oId d-cig the year.  ontcldirgodsinsior   ta  lrio-O            aieo
Os o  coicnla  yea aton.   CodOticuot0rar protec  glalo  (e.g. s-g-c.n.                           and  eb ile ocift.
otrdotr_aarela ibarediblea -dooo-hoao-i-cr     (egoo -fferod
tua act .. doldol.                p-tyo da rlooo   of  -ac  r-atry ie bared coLABOR FRCEt
__,ca  aeag  ycodoc.c price so-h,-; 1941-hf. 197.  aol- 191E  data.                       Toto1 Labor Focce Itbo...oado) - icat...icolly acclo Pec...c-, cnltlig
Per oarfra tardy of c-l-i-o fycr  ad ceccicoeorts  - Cosyoted fr.s                                  oco   ocraduaolyd               -o olcliog h-oori-to, tccdeoto. .tIc
Per day.    roilablo   op   Irorrphe   oooh   cy-d-cio.,  lats   ooco  to-acbl   165, 1971 at1 198  dr
eoaro  l  ho0- oocc          .e ,,ylouole oIde  ool  ed  orl.                             rrad   cecoo          - eooohcforc  an rccetog   of totalb larfre
oorii     g uIl  food pycco-iog, and looe  tlsolbutica.  tquie                             gOucoe(oto)      or acoO   aofo  fgarrcy,hotiag aol
oro .0c  ttisocod by PAO ..  -autl o   p isaoglcel ordo far oca  ott-                         fiob.gahpi       cra0   f t-a  labor focco; 190, 19ff nod 19t1 data.
otty 001 healthcaoederagieaicetl   beyc r. cdy soighto, age                                       lootyfroo)-labor faceOrelo,  crrucictoa-factoroyg
aod sec dI-icotarO- of1pylta.oo ltttO  yprec-  for __otat                                           ao  l  ...ocOiriy;8.,dta cda or    r rcoco f coco1 labor force;
hac-ohold lore1; 191-65. 1970l aol 97  d,oa.                                                        1960, 19ff ard19too
yecoalcaooyylPpyo ad oei  (grass  -ecboy                               adrceicc P-to   yroploa    Pactciyer.ion Rate (purcooct( - toral .clt, ord foclerati  aytoro
art   pply.  of load  -e day.  0Ncc royply of food ho detbod.  us ohor-  lo-                      aotirroyoetcacuaoo.t..ctedu  taa,  oe.alf Islbr fort.u
qoceoro  a  all -o-otir  ootabliohed by USDA yr-ido fat.         cOo                        yerooo-       f ttl,rl  ccl faolo  "Poylc o... fall1Ag. 0000 .reryciriy;
allce...tre  "f t   raso of ltors  pcatsln per day aod 20 gcEaof adoioal ccd                      1900, 1970. aol 190f  data.  Thbeo c-o bared or  lf'  parltiatipar rates
polar placte. i of ohioh 10 traso oboull be. riso  pctro.    ThrotTh       r.od-                  reloio0 ado-ou  alltl-oc  of the y-uai,ad 10gtcite  Itred.A
ardaarlcoIerotharrboo.         fstaefSr.       ttctulyc_toaci.      tc3nS    f                    forn oraro  fcc_r_tl..alIc__aa
uuirol ypo-i  ao 0, A-aroge fat the  -1dl. proyp-od by 07A0 ic tbe Third                        Oco   pitletdec ..ocRlt   - lotio of ccoltloc order 15 aol 10 aolco
foId rood SO-r-ty; 1961-65, 1970 ood 1977 data,                                                   to rho toa  Jaalr force.
r    Acyt  cr-trin  url  fccn ocinalod rlno-  protoi  .ayply of food 1r-
coe   rsoiooaol Polc   to. gro   pe  day; 1961-65, 1970 ord 1977 doOr.              tCOl  fDISTRIBUTIfON
Child (ares 1-4) Icaob ORot (car thoo....  dp   oc-   deaconp etoh-cood in                        recoae of Pr 0-00  Ioco.- (bod  It  -.hl td kAI) - 00e-0-d hy rIches
uteft pylI" yea-o,ootblldcuA   tholsotgo.                frotdtlparo-                           5 Prertot,ricbe-tffyorcetacroa- ty20p-rceot.oodyoc-e-  4f p-r-r
cclo  doto doci-d fror lift tables; 1960. 1970 aol 1980 dora.                                    of hoc.otahld..
HEALTH7                                                                                           P0VERT0 TARGET tGOaCc
Life loyoetaoc  00Olch (foam) - A-ocago cobur of y--c  of life  -uroOrla                          Thuaol     Io   o   rte    r   oyapycloa-to eact -          at yao1ly leo-lo,
oh bIch; 160. 170 orlOt  data.                                                             adotodh h        ocrpttr cbh co_dreablrcoc-a-
o,fac  M-tarrlily  oR  (er cp-  atuoul) - Auool doatho of ilot ac   aodrc ore feo-                folito   d Absaloto Por-ty oo l       lord11~2  (rl!nf pe  calo) -  -bhot ao  torah1
of oad  rc tchotad Ioo birthe; 1960. 1070 ood 1000 bo adetlo  Ior'lt  toor  local in flthorloct  lo-o   boOco ulOob o  -                                                           I0
.Atctso-ot   Sf..t-ocr(eco  o   aoal     totol,  -rhar. al   -1oa  - SN--                              tlr1iooaOl1. adeqato doar yl-,ouota2co-foadlerqilcutetnlo i.ct
her of P.pecle   ttl  cl          o  coab       r th.. toas bleac-otoccr-fe                       afftordbe..
_a_oc-uply (JolodeA lltrate  turfoc  soters or  ---rad b-t  -coctautiotl.d                         rscdtlcc    oot   oo.,Lrl(0   e   aia    -abAacatdco-1 
cteco.-h or that fro  protettod barehale.:  syln,ad aoiatray aell) a.                              ua  cl o   yaercy i-coo  foelIi 00  oo-hIrd  of arogo cur _opica
paooagso   hrIrofoio ayotre    Ioaocr-booareootb locictr lcaeo  000 coroy.   char 1-rel Oo dercoe   frto  the rorol
foortir or orardyosoboote,d 000500  ith   20 occurs frar a                       bhca  a   o         e    Ioth Adjscot  o  higher  _r of lirtg ia orb or aeau.
coosodero  aa beinguOohOc r asalorea tthtbce   I.ororOareo                             Ort~i-otd Patclatito  OeAr`._ocI Pocertc toc-s  Lore   (c-ret(                 -a
......eble aooe  sto1d coply tha  the hoor.        f  c  soacec  of nt iaoahbt                    aol_royal -Fectaur of poclcot(cboon   orl)ao  r  'llt
do rat hare to  pood A diopcopactiaoa..   yocpt of ohe day  it fotohOeg rhO                       p-c".
faoy 0ttr tords.
taeoc  E-cat  Dita..oI (yt-e- of yayc-Idoo  - r.to..  .ra. a'nd tacol-
P"Srofyoroo;  urban  cdrral) sorre  byeooa dluoala
citu-alletloon
FPjaytaior per I'ylojoni   - Poynlotlc  diridad by ..ober of proocioirg phyrilE-foorobc od la-ai Sara Dtoioict
ctiao   qaOlified feAr tedidoo  cohorlt o  taOrecity lerol.                                                                      Elo.oorto  Motyuio  aol P-ajeccti- Doypto-
yoauia   u  Norsoo parso.. ... porlatio aitrded by  .bl   Puch      ..o ccIdto gsoy 1900
sooIcdlfesolera-c-teoaen            ,asuor    uct,   pract-Ooal o         -uoaad
-c-itgeu-ooftaclrs



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita: US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                       Actual                         Estimate           P.__J_E_
Indicator                            1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0    4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0    2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Fxchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    637    675    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                          Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9          8.4          7.5         5.0         5.0
Agriculture                 54      47      32      26     22      17         2.7          4.1         4.1         2.5          3.5
Industry                    14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7         5.5         6.5
Services                    32      35      35      33     36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0         6.5          5.0
Consumption                 91      89      79      70     74      74         4.1          8.4         8.9          5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8    -14      20      22     26      27         4.8         18.3        11.7          6.0         4.5
Exports of GNFS              13     13      23      31     23      18         3.6          9.2         8.7        -2.4          1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1        14.0          2.5         3.5
Gross national savings       8       9      17      25     25      22         6.1         23.1        14.4         4.8          5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975           1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                           11.7           10.1            10.5           23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4             9.3           13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3           +1.6           +7.1           +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                         n.a.           5.0            10.7           13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2            3.5             3.7            3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                               4.5              7.6                 6.9             4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                    2.4              5.1                 4.5             2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (x)                2.9             16.0                15.0             7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                     2.2              2.2                 3.1             4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30             0.48                0.30            0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                        1.2              2.8                 1.9             1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 31, 1983



- 32 -
Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                            ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1990
bALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,994    19,385   18,193   22,270   25,344   48,180
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   18,824    15,631   13,893   16,979   19,004   31,759
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,170         3,754    4,300    5,291    6,340   16,421
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -22,096   -22,900  -21,472  -22,558  -23,740  -39,850
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,407    -5,468   -4,617   -4,451   -4,467   -7,001
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,022   -14,803  -14,388  -15,584  -17,029  -30,155
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536     -586      -659      -975   -2,667    -2,629   -2,467   -2,523   -2,244   -2,694
3.  Resource balance                       175      -140    3,459    3,596        898    -3,516   -3,279        -288    1,604    8,330
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,267    -3,772   -4,151   -5,004   -5,910  -10,245
(a)  Interest public debt             -441     -514      -772      -819      -840    -1,118   -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -3,036
(b)  Other (net)                      -424     -501      -489      -386   -2,427    -2,654   -2,832   -3,387   -3,957   -7,209
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52        76       67        100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,250    2,467   -2,302    -7,188   -7,530   -5,395   -4,605   -1,915
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271       217       140      134        276       350       450       600    1,000
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    3,203         5,180    5,920    6,684    6,673    7,091
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329       -953   -1,001    -1,376   -1,770   -2,042   -2,440   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       657      536    1,583    2,202        3,803    4,200    4,642    4,233    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,454   -1,172          874    2,050        156      -202       -10
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736         988     2,234       729       -55      -426   -2,231
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354         4,120    3,390    3,445    3,871    8,775
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4      4.3       5.6       6.9       5.4        3.0       2.6       2.4      2.5       3.4
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154        7,420    5,390    5,445    5,871   10,775
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3       8.6     10.1       9.5        5.4       4.1       3.8       3.8       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                        442       484       433       679      802
Bilateral                M        i               *9       7         TT        *72-V
IDA                                      49        29        30        42       68
Other                                    12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                 218       271        61        25       154
IBRD                                    191       168       199       331      106
Other multilateral                       16        12        46        52       86
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed. /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                              441       514       771       819      973
Payments as % exports /e               11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(Z)                                     6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4      9.1
Official - source                       5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.7      19.1      19.0     15.6
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8     20.8
Private  - source                      10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As B of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                4.1
/a On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
lb  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7T  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.                                                                East Asia and Pacific Programs
7d  At end of period.                                                                                             March 31, 1983
/e Oil exports treated on gross basis.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1983)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5            -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea        -        7.8         0.9
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate             -       16. 5        5. 4
479     1974   Bali Tourism                              -       16.0         0.4
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.0     -           7.4
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.5     -           0.1
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.0     -           3.1
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.0     -           7.1
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.0     -           4.5
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.0     -           3.0
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.0     -           0.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.0     -           6.5
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0        -           0.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.5     -           5.3
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0     -           9.1
1365     1977   Sixth Pbwer                              116.0     -           9.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                     13.0    -            3.2
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.0     -           7.5
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.0     -          31.1
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35. 0    -           4.6
1472     1977   Second Pbpulation                         24.5     -           7.4
1486     1978   NonrFormal Education                      15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and S&allholders I        65.0     -          24.3
1513     1978   Seventh Power                             94.0     -          30.5
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development               -      40.0         9.1
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.0    -          108. 3
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0     -          14.8
827     1978   Rural Credit                               -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II         65.0    -           49.2
869     1979   Polytechnic                                -      49.0        25.2
1645     1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.0     -          47.3
1653     1979   Third Urban Development                   54.0     -          23.8
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                 -      10.0         8.7
1691     1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.0    -           33.4
1692     1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.0     -          13.6
1696     1979   Fifth Highway                            123.2     -          76.1
1703     1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.0     -           9.4



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Lo an/                                                             Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
919.   1979   Transmigration II                          -      67.0        24.3
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90. 0    -         89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.0     -          78.2
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.0     -          25.0
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development               -      12.0        10. 0
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Snallholders III        99. 0    -          64.7
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development             -      45. 0       34.6
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                       -      45.0        30.7
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II          -      42.0        37.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116. 0    -          89.2
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Snallholders IV         42. 0    -          35. 5
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research            35.0    -           35. 0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research            -       30.0        25.9
1869    1980   Third Population                          35.0     -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                              253.0     -         204.8
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development           46.0     -          41.1
1904    1981   University Development                    45.0    -           44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                              250. 0    -         182.1
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                         22.0    -           18.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                  43.0    -           38.9
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.0     -         151.8
2011    1981   Second Snall Enterprise Development   106.0        -          33.7
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                  85.0    -           85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                           170.0     -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                              15.0     -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport               185. 0    -         159. 5
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                  100. 0    -          99.8
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                   80.0     -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                           25.0     -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                      37.0    -           36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                    70. 0    -          69.9
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution          66.0     -          65.9
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Snallholders VI            68.1     -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering              25. 0    -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                  5.5     -           5.5
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /1                         300.0     -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & gnallholders VII /1 154.6        -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health /1                      27.0     -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation /1          22.4     -          22. 4
/I  Not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Lo an/                                                               Amnount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              5,115.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -195.86   -7.39
Total now outstanding                         4,919. 74  924. 41
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27. 21     -1. 03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,918.71  925.87
Total undisbursed                             3, 179. 10  216.80   3, 39 5.90
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ----i(US$ million) 
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3       2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0. 6      3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48. 0      5. 0      53. 0
1982   P.T. Saseka Celora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8     18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 79.3       5.7      85.0
Total held by IFC                                   39.5     12.3       51.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   21.8           0.3      22.1



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                   6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,           10-13
2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                        14
Rural Development (946)                                                       15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)            19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                               22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                          22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                    23
Health (2235)                                                                 23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                             24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                            25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       26
Ports (1337)                                                                  26
Tourism  (479)                                                                  27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1709 and 2236)                                  28-29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha.  About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Darel-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV (Cr.
995-IND).
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 7.8 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements -were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3s 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year's delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan Nio. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9,000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982.  Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982.  Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD-s basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede. Dam.
Loan No. 2119  Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province):  $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid- 1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue Ie Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
needs to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 197-8;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved. Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisal estimate, and 90% of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about
53% of appraisal estimate, and 64% of latest revised estimates.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date:  October 21, 1981;
Closing date:  June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder coconut
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
Training Institute at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The project
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period. PNP XXVIII's project implemen-
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government's commitment to the project.  PTP XXIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date: February 18, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallhold-
ers (NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institu-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155% of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in non-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Ioan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date:  March 11, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Yader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785  Small Enterprise Development:  $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/kMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan Nb. 2011   Second 9nall Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Snall Bermanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21% to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date:  May 11, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70% of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date:  June 17, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country s
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problemrfree and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment) , and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan Nb. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Nonr-Formal Education:  $15 Million loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date:  November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, inr-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of- school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan ND. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI-s long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Hbuston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI-s request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
Inr-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Ioan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date- December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in. the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 31 pages
Loan Nb. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Adminis-
tration (CEA).
Loan ND. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date:  June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculun Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Pbwer:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No . 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Pbwer:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled NDvember 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encounr
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Conr-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank. PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants' performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering: $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling
it to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: March 29, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 29 pages
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981. Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54%.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235 Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of US$10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about 10%-15%.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40% completed compared to 75%
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into programrtype components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provincial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.  Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule.  The project is about 3 months behind schedule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Government-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Ports
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port's performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close by June 30, 1983.



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dtia from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980.  The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date:  September 26, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehenpive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date:  February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway.  The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 62 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
FIFTH BAPINDO PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 8 months
(b)  Project prepared by                 : BAPINDO and GOI
(c)  First presented to the Bank        : June 1982
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission   : July 1982
(e)  Completion of negotiations          : March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness    : July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  GOI to provide necessary funds to support BAPINDO's
projected operations for 1983-85 on terms and conditions
which would enable BAPINDO to maintain an adequate level of
profitability (para. 62).
(b) BAPINDO to amend its Policy Statement and Development
Strategy Statement only in agreement with the Bank
(para. 64).
(c) GOI to make the required equity contribution to BAPINDO to
maintain a debt/equity ratio within 6:1 (para. 68).
(d) GOI to ensure individual contracts (except those on used
ships) of more than $5 million to be financed under the
proposed loan be awarded after international competitive
bidding (para. 69).



BRD 11166R2
'49  .~. THAILAND            165,                                 IV                                   11                                 1205                                 12F,                                 99API18
Arose             N*                 PHILIPPIN~ES    r"'                                        ANK   EMBANGUNAN  INDOEI
50,1h  ChII70    Sea  BRUNEI                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~LOCATION  OF BRANCHE
Meon    MALAYSIA                                                                                        '                                     ....999919
9995409099    '  S                                                                                     /~~~~~' AL YSI 
95  .A)SINGAPCRE-                                               M    L YI              )    9W90M9A                                                                                                                         " 1NENOALBUDRS
09099  ~ ~ ~     lenjunqpirlossg  \..-"".''.'                                                                99 5)9990 5359                 '      .   HASMAHERA                         Pacific                           Oce    a   is'AMAHERAa    c  I 
K    A         I    M                 N'                                                         ooteo5                                                  9-
P-ti-kC                                                             9SmrIc( ,'.-'9''
-                E    ATqOSsurp,,dO,,                                                                                                                         SULLAWESI                   'IAIA                                        C--       ~     ~     r.'*
l u 'v o~                                                                      ~~                                                               0 9 1      '            I S O  
K'  - ~~~~~~~0pmESflq   .          .      ss'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th           sothos                                            ' .           9..-                9               09    .9        ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,e  IC/AN   JAYA  I~~~~~~E... .1
5993509VC5   BE] 909990  I    - -                                                                                    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap~
Se,ktu   O,,9 9O99C9C099 999'0                                                                                                                                                                  'r.....3                                       K999                                         
*Ilendor
.99999 .9099400.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ll~0  0  w  o
Tonungkerong *   '  4AKARTA                    UIIRgpOISBOBQ *                                                                                                  yI         ',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ,          IzMLE
JAWS                                                                                                                                                                                                                          'I   35~~~~~~~~~~~~U8  1  g  ~ ~ 0    6~60    0  O
CooS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMIR
WO- ~       ~               ~              ~              9%~                                      3.C



