OFFICIAL
DOCUMUIrT( LOAN NUMBER 2277 IND
Loan Agreement
(Fifth BAPINDO Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2277 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated k1 Y     3e    , 1983, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter cal ed the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter
called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BAPINDO" means Bank Pembangunan Indonesia;
(b) "BAPINDO Act" means the Undang--Undang No. 21 Prp of
1960, as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 Prp of 1962 and
Presidential Decree No. 2 of 1966 and as further amended from
time to time;
(c) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(d) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-
loan, made or proposed to be made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BAPINDO proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an Investment;


﻿-2-
(f)  "Investment  Project"   means  a  specific   development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or an Investment;
(g)  "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and
investment policy adopted by the Board of Managing Directors,
and approved by the Supervisory Board of BAPINDO on December 31,
1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(h) "Prior Credit" means any credit provided for in a Prior
Credit Agreement;
(i)  "Prior Credit Agreement" means any outstanding credit
agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated before
the date of this Agreement;
(j)  "Prior Loan" means any loan provided for in a Prior
Loan Agreement;
(k) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated before the date
of this Agreement;
(1)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and BAPINDO, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(m) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(n)  "Sub-luan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by BAPINDO out of the proceeds of the Loan relent by
BAPINDO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement;
(o)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BAPINDO or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BAPINDO or by BAPINDO and one or more of its
subsidiaries; and
(p)  "Subsidiary  Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and BAPINDO pursuant


﻿- 3 -
to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
eight million nine hundred thousand dollars ($208,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) An amount of the Loan up to an aggregate
equivalent of eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($8,300,000), may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower, the Bank and BAPINDO, for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2 and
B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree and subject as
set forth hereinafter and in Section 2.03 of the Project Agree-
ment, BAPINDO shall, acting as representative of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.11 of this Agreement, be entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account the amount of the Loan set forth
in Category (5) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services
required for: (i) the Investment Project in respect of which
withdrawal is requested, (A) 100% of foreign currency expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) for goods
procured, or services supplied from, outside the territories of
the Borrower, (B) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of such
amounts as shall have been expended for machinery and equipment
(other than vehicles) procured in the territories of the Bor-
rower, which percentage represents the estimated foreign exchange
component of such machinery and equipment, and (C) the equivalent
of fifty per cent (50%) of such amounts as shall have been
expended for civil works which percentage represents the
estimated foreign exchange component of such works; provided,


﻿however, that no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account
in respect of an Investment Project unless the Sub-loan or
Investment for such Investment Project shall have been approved
by the Bank, or the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall be
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account; provided further, that no
withdrawals in excess of $60,000,000 shall be made with respect
to specific development projects under Part A.1 of the Project
for ships.
(c) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of: (i)
$2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or of any Prior Credit or Prior Loan for such Invest-
ment Project; or (ii) $80,000,000 equivalent, when added to all
other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(d) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and BAPINDO shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i)
expenditures before the date of this Agreement; or (ii) expendi-
tures made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan
subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect of an Investment,
if such expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in
respect of such Sub-loan or Investment the application and
information required by Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agree-
ment, or in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the request and information
required by Section 2.03 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for: (i) Part A.1
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of
the Project Agreement; and (ii) Part A.2 of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BAPINDO of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to five hundred twenty thousand nine hundred forty-
eight dollars ($520,94*).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first si> months or the
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿-6-
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn for the purposes of Part A.1 of the
Project in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement as such Schedule 4 shall be amended
from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to: (i)
conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans and the schedules
of repayment to the Bank in respect of Investments referred to in
Section 2.03 (d) of the Project Agreement, which have been
approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) take into
account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General
Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.10 of this Agreement, provided that any such amendments to the
amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall not authorize
repayments of the principal amount of the Loan beyond the latest
repayment date set forth in such Schedule 4. Repayments due
hereunder shall be made on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 4 shall include amendments to
the table of premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
(b) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn for the purposes of Parts A.2 and B of the Project
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bogrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
BAPINDO, in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or an Investment
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by BAPINDO, the Borrower shall
promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next
following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or


﻿-7-
Investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a Sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to
the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the
Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an
Investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such Investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.11. BAPINDO is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions, and for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement with respect to
withdrawals under Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (5) of the
table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Froject;
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan required for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project to BAPINDO
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BAPINDO under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project
through its Ministry of Finance with due diligence and efficency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
investment practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds (as budgetary transfers), facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿-8-
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by     the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause BAPINDO to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all
the obligations therein* set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
BAPINDO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
any of its administrative subdivisions or any of its agencies or
instrumentality or any agency or instrumentality of any admini-
strative subdivision to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 4.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in


﻿creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect, provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the positions
of the President and the Managing Directors of BAPINDO are at all
times filled by qualified and experienced persons.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall discuss with the Bank
each fiscal year of BAPINDO the level, timing and manner of the
financial support to be provided by the Borrower, Bank Indonesia
and all other sources to BAPINDO for the following fiscal year,
taking into account BAPINDO's profitability, development strategy
and work program.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall
provide BAPIDO (i) with additional equity capital in amounts,
such that BAPINDO shall at all times be in compliance with
Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement, and (ii) with adequate
funds to support its projected operations through December 1985.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting


﻿- 10 -
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or project implementing
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part B of
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause such separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year to be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
certified copies of the reports of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in 3uch detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BAPINDO
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) the BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the carrying out of the Project or the operations of
financial condition of BAPINDO or the efficiency of BAPINDO's
management or personnel;
(c) BAPINDO shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
BAPINDO or by others whereby any of the property of BAPINDO shall
or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-


﻿- 11 -
ment of BAPINDO or for the suspension of all or part of BAPINDO's
operations;
(e) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion of BAPINDO under the Project Agreement;
(f) a default shall occur under any Prior Credit Agreement
or Prior Loan Agreement other than in respect of the payment of
the principal or any other payment required thereunder;
(g) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BAPINDO will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(h) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by BAPINDO, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
BAPINDO's business or BAPINDO's financial condition or the
efficiency of BAPINDO's management and personnel or the carrying
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (e) or (h) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d)
or (g) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental and corporate action; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BAPINDO, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAPINDO
and is legally binding upon BAPINDO in accordance with its terms;
and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and BAPINDO, respectively, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and BAPINDO in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The dateOv4d     I,/1f3 , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11 of
this Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
j   Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of that part of the proceeds of the Loan available
for the Project, the allocation of amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment and               300,000            100% of foreign
materials for                                 expenditures,
Part A.2 of                                   60% of local
the Project                                   expenditures
(2) Consultants'
services
(a) for Part A.2         1,500,000            100%
of the
Project
(b) for Part B of        5,000,000            100%
the Project
(3) Overseas training
(a) for Part A.2         1,000,000            100%
of the Project
(b) for Part B of          200,000            100%
the Project
(4) Fee                         520,948            Amount due
under Section
2.05 of this
Agreement


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Sub-loans for           200,000,000           As set forth
Part A.1 of                                  in Section
the Project                                  2.02 (b) of
the Loan
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 379,052
TOTAL        208,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $400,000 may be made in
respect of Category (2) (b) on account of expenditures made
before that date but after March 1, 1983.


﻿- 16 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   The provision   of financing, through    loans  to and
investments in enterprises in the territories of the Borrower in
furtherance of the corporate purposes of BAPINDO, for specific
development projects.
2.   Strengthening the capabilities of BAPINDO through the
provision of technical assistance, overseas training and training
equipment.
Part B:
The provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for
sectoral and policy studies, including, inter alia, detailed
engineering for export zones and estates, an export quality
study, subsector studies for textiles, cement, wood processing
and steel, and overseas training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application. of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "or Investment Projects, as the case may be"
are added to the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
in the case of Part B of the Project, at any time the Bank
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the costs
of Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, or (c) by the date specified in paragraph (f)
of Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement no applications or
requests permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
such Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (d) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate
the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Loan.   Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
For Part A.1 of the Project*
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                      (Expressed in dollars)**
August 1, 1985                                    960,635
February 1, 1986                                1,269,230
August 1, 1986                                  1,269,230
February 1, 1987                                1,269,230
August 1, 1987                                  2,192,307
February 1, 1988                                3,192,307
August 1, 1988                                  4,007,692
February 1, 1989                                4,823,077
August 1, 1989                                  5,546,154
February 1, 1990                                6,261,538
August 1, 1990                                  6,976,923
February 1, 1991                                7,692,307
August 1, 1991                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1992                                7,692,307
August 1, 1992                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1993                                7,692,307
August 1, 1993                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1994                                7,692,307
August 1, 1994                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1995                                7,692,307
August 1, 1995                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1996                                7,692,307
August 1, 1996                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1997                                7,692,307
August 1, 1997                                  7,692,307
February 1, 1998                                7,692,307
August 1, 1998                                  7,307,692
February 1, 1999                                6,423,077
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
For Part A.1 of the Project*
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)**
August 1, 1999                                   6,423,077
February 1, 2000                                 6,423,077
August 1, 2000                                   5,500,000
February 1, 2001                                 4,500,000
August 1, 2001                                   3,684,615
February 1, 2002                                 2,869,230
August 1, 2002                                   2,146,153
February 1, 2003                                 1,4305768
August 1, 2003                                     715,383
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified is the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn for the purposes of Part
A.1 of the Project pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                                0.15
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                0.30
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                0.55
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                0.80
More than sixteen years
but not more than
eighteen years before
maturity                                       0.90
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                1.00


﻿22 -
DULE 5
Amortization Schedule
For Parts A.2 and B of the Project
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1989
through   February 1,2003                     275,000
On August 1, 2003                                  349,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn for the purposes of Part
A.2 and B of the Project pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                                0.15
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                0.30
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                          0.55
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                0.80
More than sixteen years
but not more than
eighteen years before
maturity                                       0.90
More than eighteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 3        day of .      198a   .
FOR SECRETARY


