Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12878-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 1995)
Currency Unit    = Sri Lankan Rupee (SLRs)
US$ 1.0         = SLRs 50.00
SLRs 1.0        = US$ 0.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (Iam)    = 0.621 mile
I square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3)   = 35.31 cubic feet
I hectare (ha)     = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWDR       - Average Weighted Deposit Rate
BOO/BOT  - Build, Operate and Own/Build, Operate and Transfer
CEA        - Central Environmental Authority
CMA        - Colombo Metropolitan Area
CMC        - Colombo Municipal Council
EMS        - Environmental Management Strategy
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
GIS        - Geographic Information System
GOSL       - Government of Sri Lanka
LA         - Local Authority
MEIP       - Metropolitan Environmental Inprovement Program
MHCPU    - Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public Utilities
NEAP       - National Environmental Action Plan
NESC       - National Environmental Steering Committee
NWSDB    - National Water Supply and Drainage Board
SOE        - Statement of Expenditure
UDA        - Urban Development Authority
WPC        - Western Provincial Council
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



SRI LANKA
COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiaries:   Colombo Municipal Council (CMC)
National Water Supply and Drainage (NWSDB)
Urbar Development Authority (UDA)
Amount:          SDR 24.8 million (US$39.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms: The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) would onlend part of the credit
proceeds to CMC and NWSDB on a variable rate basis not below the average
weighted deposit rate on interest bearing deposits of domestic commercial
banks and adjustable every six months, repayable over 20 years, including 6
years of grace. GOSL would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect
Description:     The project would support progress toward a sustainable environment for the
long term economic and social development of the Colombo Metropolitan
Area (CMA). In particular, the project would focus on improving solid waste
services, controlling surface- and groundwater contamination from wastewater
discharge, and building up the capabilities of the local governments in
municipal waste management. The project would also assist in promoting
private sector participation in environment-related operations. The project
would finance (a) construction of a sanitary landfill and compost facilities to
replace open dumps, and equipment for hospital wastes collection, transport
and disposal; (b) wastewater collection systems in two industrial zones; (c)
wastewater pollution abatement measures in the Beira Lake catchment area;
and (d) technical assistance.
Project Benefits:   The project addresses the underlying causes of environmental degradation in
the CMA and will benefit over 3 million people who reside in or commute to
the project area. The replacement of open dumps with controlled sanitary
landfill will eliminate contamination of surface and ground water from open
dump seepage or leachates, improve urban environmental conditions and
landscape aesthetics. Improved management of hospital wastes through
specialized collection and safe disposal will lower public health impacts of
uncontrolled disposal of infectious and pathological wastes. The two
industrial areas at Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela account for about 60% of
water-polluting industries in the CMA; the project-supported sewerage
investments would therefore lead to a significant reduction in the overall
pollution contribution of the industrial sector and a general improvement in the



population health in the areas concerned. The interventions in the Beira Lake
catchment will help reduce associated environmental and health hazards and
open the way for environmentally sustainable development of the lake's
surrounding area in the longer term. Besides the above direct benefits, the
project would serve to catalyze private participation in the delivery of critical
urban infrastructure services traditionally undertaken by the public sector.
This is expected to contribute to increased service coverage, improved service
quality and efficiency. The project would also have a significant
demonstration effect to sensitize other urban authorities to adopt better
managed and environmentally sound wastes management systems.
Prgject Risks:    Potential project risks are: (a) shortfalls in cost recovery to sustain the
operations of the project supported investments; (b) weak enforcement of
industrial wastewater discharge standards, which would reduce pressure on
industries to utilize the joint wastewater collection and treatment systems; and
(c) lack of adequate response from the private sector for the two wastewater
treatment plants. These risks have been recognized and suitable safeguards
have been incorporated in the project implementation as detailed below.
Cost Recovery. To sustain the operations of project facilities agreement has
been reached on the mechanisms for setting up dedicated sources of funds for
the above operations and on cost recovery targets satisfactory to IDA.
Enforcement. To step up enforcement, GOSL has committed to implementing
a time-bound compliance program for the two industrial areas. Under this
program, the Central Environmental Authority, NWSDB and each of the
targeted industries will enter into an agreement confirming that each industrial
entity will comply with established effluent discharge standards through using
the proposed joint treatment facilities or its own captive treatment plant. All
agreements would be concluded by June 1997.
Financing of Wastewater Treatment Plants. To minimize the risk that private
sector interest may not materialize in a time frame commensurate with the
implementation of the project, GOSL will implement a program of specific
actions aimed at concluding contractual agreements with private sponsors by
March 1997. International consultants will be mobilized in October 1995 to
assist in the preparation of solicitation packages and evaluation of proposals.
No withdrawals will be allowed with respect to the wastewater collection
works until financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the construction of
the two wastewater treatment plants have been concluded. In the event that
private sector BOO/BOT arrangements fail to develop, GOSL will arrange
funds from alternative sources for the construction of the wastewater
treatment plants.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:'                              Local       Foreign     Total
(-- US$ million --)
Municipal Solid Waste Management                5.8          6.7        12.5
Wastewater Collection Systems                   6.7          2.4         9.1
Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control          7.2          2.8        10.0
Technical Assistance                            2.6          4.9         7.5
Base Cost                                      22.3         16.8        39.1
Physical Contingencies                          3.3          2.4         5.7
Price Contingencies                             2.5          1.7         4.2
Total Project Cost                             21           2Q02        49.0
Financing Plan:                                Local       Foreign     Total
(-- US$ million --)
IDA                                            18.1         20.9        39.0
GOSL                                           10.0           -         10.0
Total                                           8           zQ2         49.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year        FY96    FY97        FY98    FY99    FY2000    FY2001
(US$ million)
Annual                  3.0       7.0        8.5      8.5       8.5        3.5
Cumulative              3.0      10.0       18.5    27.0       35.5       39.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Poverty Category:         Not applicable.
Map:                      IBRD 26954
IIncluding USS4.6 million in duties and taxes.



- iv -
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................i
I.          THE COLOMBO URBAN ENVIRONMENT
A.  Socioeconomic Setting                              .I
B.      Regulatory and Institutional Framework
for Environmental Management .1
C.   Environmental Conditions in Colombo                       .2
D. Government Strategy                                .4
E.  Rationalu for IDA Involvement                          .5
II.         THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives                               .6
B.      Project Description                                                     6
C.  Status of Project Preparation                         .8
D.  Emvironmental Aspects                              .8
E. Project Costs                                  .9
F.  Project Financing .10
G.  Procurement and Disbursement .11
H.  Project Implementation .13
1.  Project Reporting and Auditing .16
J.  Project Supervision .16
III.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT .17
IV.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits .19
B. Project Risks .19
V.          AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Septernber 1994 led by Ms. L Donaldson and a subsequent follow-up
mission in March 1995 led by Ms. N. Zhao and including Messrs. 1. Mobarek (SA IN), P. Illangovan (ASTEN) and S. Pilapitiya
(SAI SL). Peer reviewers were Messrs. C. Bartone, 0. Yepes and T. Tsui (EA2CO). The Division Chief (SAI IN) and Director (SAI) are,
respectively, Ms. M. Garcia-Zamor and Mr. P. Isenran. Document preparation support was provided by Mes. J. Willianm and S.
Lippman.



-v -
TABLES
2.1       Project Cost Estimate
2.2       Project Financing Plan
2.3       Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
I .       Municipal Solid Waste Management
2.        Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela Wastewater Collection and Treatment Schemes
3.        Beira Lake Restoration
4.        Termns of Reference for Technical Assistance
S.        Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment of Landfill Component
6.        Detailed Project Cost Estimates
7.        Disbursement Schedule
8.        Terms of Reference for Public Consultation Panel
9.        Project Implementation Plan
10.       Project Progress Reporting Requirements
11.       Indicative Supervision Plan
12.       Selected Documents Available in the Project File



SRI LANKA
COLOMBO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE COLOMBO URBAN ENVIRONMENT
A. Socioeconomic Setting
1.1  Sri Lanka has a richly varied natural resource base, a moderately expanding population
covered by extensive social services and an adult literacy rate of almost 90%. With such an
economic infrastructure and human resource base, the Govemment of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is
gearing up to propel the economy into the mainstream of growth by fostering private sector-led
and environmentally friendly industrial growth, stimulating agriculture to diversify into new
crops and export-oriented products, and consolidating Sri Lanka's natural, strategic position by
developing the Colombo port into a competitive regional transshipment center.
1.2 The Colombo Metropolitan Area (CMA), which comprises the Colombo Municipal
Council (CMC) and 30 othe, local authorities in the Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha Districts
of the Westem Province, is the most developed region in Sri Lanka (see IBRD Map 26954).
With over four million inhabitanits, the CMA contains a quarter of Sri Lanka's total population,
accounts for above 70% of the country's industrial activities, and generates over 40% of the
island's gross domestic product (GDP). This concentration of population, industrial and
commercial activities in about 5% of the total land area of Sri Lanka, places a severe strain on
the existing municipal infrastructure. Notwithstanding the Govemment's preference for a more
balanced regional development, most of the new industrial growth can be expected to be sited
in the CMA, which is already bearing the brunt of existing industrial and urban pollution.
Recognizing environmental improvement as an essential part of economic development,
implementation of adequate environmental management programs to remedy and prevent the
adverse effects of urban and industrial growth on the environment in the CMA is on the top of
GOSL's environmental agenda.
B. Regulatory and Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
1.3  In recent years, GOSL has taken a series of legislative initiatives toward protecting the
environment. The National Environmental Act of 1980 establishes a comprehensive national
environmental policy. In 1982, GOSL created the Central Environmental Authority (CEA)
with policy and regulatory functions. Under the National Environmental (Amendment) Act of
1988, three new instruments were introduced for enhancing environmental protection; these are
the requirement of Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Impact Assessment
for approval of projects, the designation of environmental protection areas, and the
environmental protection license scheme to enforce industrial effluents discharge standards.
The National Environment (Protection and Quality) Regulations of 1990 mainly deals with
industrial pollution control.



-2 -
1.4 The institutional framework for environmental management in Sri Lanka is still evolving.
CEA, which functions under the new Ministry of Transport, Highways, Environment and
Women's Affairs, is the central agency with a policy and regulatory mandate. The National
Environmental Steering Committee (NESC, established in 1990) coordinates and oversees the
implementation of all environment-related programs, plans and projects. The members of the
NESC include the secretaries/heads of all relevant ministries and agencies. Besides CEA and
the NESC, a large number of national agencies are entrusted with specific responsibilities with
respect to the various environmental segments, these include, among others, the Coast
Conservation Department, the Forest Department, the Department of Wildlife Conservation,
the Irrigation Department, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB), and the
Urban Development Authority (UDA). The municipal, urban and local govemment
admninistrations' are the basic units responsible for ensuring compliance with environmental
regulations and standards within their respective jurisdictions.
C. Environmental Conditions in Colombo
1.5  The environmental degradation in the CMA derives largely from the poor management
of solid and hazardous wastes, and uncontrolled discharge of domestic and industrial
wastewater into the area's water courses, which are in tum attributable to the lack of adequate
urban infrastructure and effective enforcement of environmental regulations.
1.6    Municipal Solid Waste. According to the existing legislation, the overall responsibility
for municipal solid waste collection and disposal rests with each local administration. The solid
waste management practices in the various jurisdictions comprising the CMA differ greatly.
Regular solid waste collection systems exist in the CMC, Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia Municipal
Council (Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia MC), Moratuwa Urban Council (Moratuwa UC) and the Kotte
Urban Council (Kotte UC); however, in some of the smaller jurisdictions, a solid waste
collection system is virtually non-existent. Municipal solid waste in the CMA is presently
collected at the rate of about 1I,100 tons per day (tpd), of which about 700 tpd is by the CMC.
The ratio of waste collected to waste generated ranges from about 90% in the CMC to as little
as 5% in some of the smaller local authorities (LAs).
1.7  Presently, CMC is the only jurisdiction in the CMA that has an organized solid waste
management system, with about 1,000 container collection points providing storage of waste
prior to collection for disposal. Currently, waste collected in the CMC is deposited at a
disposal site at Wellampitiya. During the development of the site, little preparatory work was
undertaken to contain surface water, control leachate or prevent gas. Consequently, operation
of the site has caused contamination of the local aquifer. Furthermore, the site has already
reached its capacity. Thus, CMC is in urgent need of a new sanitary landfill site to avoid the
altemative of using open dumps.
1.8  Within the other LAs, waste collection points generally are little more than open patches
of ground where waste is dumped, requiring hand-loading onto secondary transport. Solid
There are three types of local government adrninistrations: Municipal Council for major cities, Urban Council for medium-sized ones,
and Local Authority for small jurisdictions.



- 3 -
waste from Dehiwala-Mt. Lavinia MC, Moratuwa UC and Kotte UC are disposed of at 15
dumping sites, all operated in an uncontrolled manner.
1.9  Hospital 7aste. Current practice of disposing medical waste is not environmentally
acceptable. Colombo's 20-odd hospitals generate about 4 tons per day of waste, of which
about 3 tons per Jay are clinical wastes. Presently, infectious clinical wastes are deposited
together with non-clinical wastes in regular trash containers without special lids to keep them
securely fastened. From that point, the containers are transported in open trolleys to an open
container il. the hospital where they are kept awaiting pick-up through the CMC's waste
collection service. This indiscriminate mixing poses a serious health hazard at each stage of
collection and storage within the hospital, and of transport and disposal in landfills and open
dumps.
1.10 Wastewater Disposal and Sanitation. The CMC and part of the neighboring Dehiwala-
Mt. Lavir. ia MC and ''Colonnawa Urban Council are the only major areas in Sri Lanka with a
central sewerage system. Within the sewered area, only about 60% of the population is
connected; 25% utilize septic tanks or pit latrines; the remaining 15% has no sanitation
facilities at all. Most industries discharge their wastewater without any treatment into surface
waters. The CMC sewerage system comprises a network of 265 km of gravity mains, 20 km
of force mains and 13 pumping stations. The collected sewerage is discharged without any
treatment into the Indian Ocean through two ocean outfalls. The existing sewerage system is
not functioning properly due to lack of maintenance, under-capacity and illegal connections.
Most of the gravity sewers were built in the early decades of the century and are reportedly
subject to periodic collapse. As a result, the discharge and seepage of sewage, industrial
wastewater and polluted stormwater cause serious pollution of the surface waters and
groundwater in the CMA and of the coastal marine waters.
1.11 Industrial Wastewater Pollution. Colombo and the adjoining areas represent the largest
concentration of industrial facilities in Sri Lanka. For nearly two decades industries have been
encouraged to grow, without concomitant attention being paid to management of industrial
pollution. The resultant industrial wastewater pollution has been especially severe in the
Ratmalana/Moratuwa area which has over 225 industrial facilities intermixed with residential
and commercial establishments, with a total population of about 350,000. Most of the
industries discharge their effluents without any treatment into nearby drainage systems;
domestic wastewater from flush toilets is directed to septic tanks and soakage pits. Pressure
from the expanding population has forced residents to construct wells adjacent to existing
septic tanks, often in violation of minimum safe distances required by planning agencies. The
high water table in much of the area further aggravates this problem, and fecal contamination
of wells is becoming more evident. Two water bodies, Lunawa Lagoon and Bolgoda Lake are
in the area. Because of the continual discharge of wastewater into its tributaries, Lunawa
Lagoon, which supported a significant fisheries industry a decade ago, is totally devoid of
aquatic life today. Although Bolgoda Lake has not degraded to the sane extent, there is
increasing concern that the long term effects of continued industrial wastewater discharge into
it will seriously compromise its economic and ecological value.
1.12 Beira Lake. Beira Lake, a distinctive landmark in the center of Colombo and once an
economic and aesthetic asset, is now a polluted water body and a public health hazard. The
lake has a surface area of 65 hectares (ha.) and is situated in a catchment area of about 448 ha.



- 4 -
Having no natural tributaries of its own, the lake's main source of renewal comes from the
runoff waters of its catchment. Its u-shaped configuration gives the lake an exceptionally long
shoreline, increasing its susceptibility to runoff from its overall catchment area as well as from
inappropriate use of the shoreline. Shoreline uses include industry, warehousing, shipping,
marine repair facilities, government offices, hotels, public open space, recreational areas, and
religious centers. Nearly 500 low-income housing units with a population of about 2,400 are
located along the shore. Large portions of the shoreline have been abused by indiscriminate
waste disposal.
1.13 The lake's water quality is very poor, with high concentrations of organic materials and
other nutrients, high turbidity and algal growth, wide fluctuations of dissolved oxygen, and high
counts of fecal coliform bacteria from domestic sewage. Pollution sources consist principally
of stormwater runoff containing illegal discharges of domestic sewage and industrial
wastewater, and sewage and solid waste from shanty settlements. Over one thousand
stormwater outfalls open into the lake, carrying all forms of urban waste. Raw sewage from
overflows in the sewerage network and from unauthorized connections of sewers and septic
tanks to storm drains further contaminates the lake.
1.14 To reverse the effects of environmental degradation, restoration of the Beira Lake has
been accorded high priority by GOSL. Various studies regarding the water quality of the lake,
sources of pollution and options for mitigation have been carried out in recent years. During
the preparation of the Colombo Environmental Management Strategy and Action Plan (para.
1.16), a comprehensive study funded by the Canadian Intemational Development Agency
(CIDA) was carried out with the objective of formulating a series of practical interventions.
The study recommended a 10-year, two-phase restoration strategy. Phase I would focus on
reduction of pollutant loadings from the Beira Lake catchment area; Phase I would aim at
accelerating the lake's restoration using three in-lake restoration techniques: dredging,
filtration of algae, and stocking of algae-eating fish. The proposed project would finance phase
I interventions.
D. Govemment Strategy
1 .15 National Environmental Action Plan. With the foresight that Sri Lanka has the unique
opportunity to pursue economic development in an ecologically sensitive manner, GOSL issued
a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1991, with the objective to set a framework
for the enhancement of sustainable development and to mitigate emerging pollution problems
and environmental degradation. The areas of environmental concem addressed under the
NEAP include: land and water resources, forestry, biodiversity and wildlife, urban and
industrial pollution, energy, and institutional capacity. The NEAP has identified the following
priority actions which bear on the environment in the Colombo metropolitan area:
*  preparation of a wastewater and sanitation master plan and a long-term solid waste
management strategy for Greater Colombo,
*  preparation of a program for the rehabilitation of Colombo's natural drainage
system, focusing on restoration of the Beira Lake, and addressing marsh filling and
stream and canal reservation settlement;



- 5 -
*  preparation of a program for continuous monitoring of the level of pollution in
selected rivers and education of the public on the adverse effects of pollutant build-
up in water bodies; and
*  preparation of a Water Resources Master Plan addressing the present and future
environmental issues relating to water resources utilization.
1.16 Colombo Environmental Management Strategy and Action Plan. Stemming from the
NEAP, GOSL, with assistance from the Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Program
(MEIP), formulated a comprehensive environmental management strategy (EMS) for Greater
Colombo. Drawing extensively upon a wide range of excellent documentation available on Sri
Lanka's environment, the Colombo EMS documented major environmental problems and their
underlying causes, assessed Sri Lanka's environmental policies and institutional capabilities for
addressing them, recommended areas for improvement, and proposed a 10 -year program of
specific environmental interventions. The proposed project is based upon the prioritized
remedial actions proposed in the EMS.
1 17 Current Constraints. While the existing legislation covers the entire range of
environmental concems, there is still a large lack of adequate implementation and enforcement.
Apart from the shortage of funds for investment in urban infrastructure, the lack of institutional
capabilities at the CEA to enforce the existing regulations and standards, and insufficient
attention on the part of local govemments to adopting adequate cost recovery measures are
constraints to implementation of environmental management programs. To help address the
above constraints, the proposed project would assist CMC and other local authorities to
operationalize sound solid waste management systems and seek private sector participation
under concession agreements. The project would also provide technical assistance to
strengthen UDA's capability in integrated urban planning, with a particular focus on
environmental planning and management. Institution building technical assistance to CEA
would be provided in the proposed Sri Lanka Environmental Action 1 Project which is under
preparation.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.18 The proposed operation is consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Sri
Lanka. The strategy discussed by the Board on December 10, 1992 seeks and supports
reforms by GOSL to (a) improve the climate for private initiatives and for export growth and
diversification; (b) improve public sector management of human and physical resources with a
view to preserving the country's outstanding social achievements and encouraging private
sector participation; and (c) strengthen public finances through containment of current
expenditures and a more rapid divestiture of Govemment holdings in public enterprises. The
strategy also supports programs that contribute to improved environmental management and
long-term sustainable economic development, particularly through lending support in urban
infrastructure. The proposed project responds to GOSL's priority for addressing emerging
environmental problems related to the concentration of economic activity in and around
Colombo. The project complements and reinforces the Bank group operations such as the
Colombo Urban Transport Project (Cr. 2495-CE) and the proposed Sri Lanka Environmental
Action I Project in their institutional support for key agencies involved in environmental
protection activities. The project would also support GOSL's effort to seek private



-6-
participation in delivering urban infrastructure services under Build, Operate and Own (BOO)
and concession agreements. IDA is well-placed to provide assistance because of its
involvement in the formulation of the NEAP and Colombo EMS and its ability to catalyze,
through policy dialogue with the Government and project financing, the implementation of
interventions needed to improve waste management and safeguard the environment.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1  The overall objective of the project is to contribute to a sustainable environment for the
long term economic and social development of the CMA. Specific objectives of the project are
to:
(a)   improve municipal solid waste management and services in the CMC and
participating local authorities;
(b)   reduce wastewater pollution in the Beira Lake catchment area and selected
industrialized zones;
(c)    develop the capabilities of local governments and institutions to plan and
manage municipal services in a sustainable, environmentally beneficial manner;
and
(d)    assist in mobilizing private participation in the development and operation of
urban infrastructure services.
B. Project Descrdtion
2.2 The project would comprise the following components:
(a)    Municipal Solid Waste Management (US$15.7 million) for:
(i)   construction of a sanitary landfill of 3.5 million cubic meters capacity at
Welisara to meet the disposal needs of CMC and 14 local authorities
located in the CMA;
(ii)   construction of a 100 tons/day capacity compost plant at the Welisara
landfill;
(iii)    provision of potable water supply and other infrastructure for the
community residing adjacent to the landfill site; and
(iv)    purchase of equipment and vehicles for safe collection, transport and
final disposal of hospital wastes at the Welisara landfill.



-7 -
(b)   Wastewater Collection Systems (US$11.4 million) for construction of a sewer
network in each of the two industrialized zones, Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela,
to collect and carry industrial and domestic wastewaters to two separate
wastewater treatment plants to be built and operated by the private sector in
parallel with the project.
(c)    Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control (US$12.9 million) for:
(i)   interception of unauthorized wastewater outlets now discharging to the
storm drainage system and connecting them to the existing sewerage
system; and
(ii)   reduction of sewerage overflows through cleaning sewer lines,
rehabilitating pumping stations, and adding a sewer line along the
northwest bank of the East Lake.
(d)   Technical Assistance (US$9.0 million) consisting of:
(i)    project preparation assistance;
(ii)    proiect implementation support through consulting services to prepare
designs and bid documents, assist in bid evaluation and provide
construction supervision for the components (a), (b) and (c) above,
including consultancy services for the invitation and evaluation of
BOO/BOT proposals for the two wastewater treatment plants for
Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela;
(iii)   technical assistance to CMC and other LAs to improve solid waste
services through involving the private sector under concession
agreements and management contracts and implementing appropriate
cost recovery measures; and
(iv)    technical assistance to UDA to (a) strengthen its capabilities in
integrated urban planning through provision of consultancy services for
updating the Colombo Master Plan (prepared in 1978) and for the
preparation of a Trincomalee regional infrastructure development plan;
(b) establish a geographic information system (GIS) for Greater
Colombo to facilitate urban planning, infrastructure development and
construction, environmental management, and urban service
administration; (c) develop a long term solid waste disposal strategy for
the CMA; (d) implement a program to monitor the water quality of
stormwater outfalls open to the lake and the lake itself; (e) formulate
further restoration measures for the Beira Lake; and (f) carry out an
environmental public awareness program.
Full details of the project's physical components are given in Annexes I through 3 and
their geographic locations shown on Map IBRD 26954.



-8 -
C. Status of Project Preparation
2.3  GOSL, with the assistance of intemational and local consultants, have prepared (a)
feasibility study reports for the project's physical components; and (b) prequalification and bid
documents for the construction and operation of the sanitary landfill and compost facilities.
Prequalification of contractors for the landfill component is now underway; bids will be invited
in September 1995 and contracts will be awarded in March 1996. Terms of reference and
shortlists for project implementation support consultancies were agreed and proposals invited;
consultants are to be appointed in October 1995. Prior to the engagement of project
supervisory consultants discussed above, the consultant who prepared the feasibility study
report for the project's solid waste management component has been retained to assist with
evaluation of prequalification submissions and finalization of bid documents for the landfill
contracts. Agreed terms of reference for project implementation support and institution
building technical assistance are given in Annex 4.
D. Environmental Aspects
2.4  The project will have a significant positive impact on the environmental quality of the
Colombo metropolitan area. Project subcomponents are designed to upgrade the deteriorated
environmental conditions caused by deficient or non-existent collection and disposal systems
for municipal wastes, especially in relation to water pollution, public health and landscape
aesthetics.
2.5  Because the project involves construction of a major sanitary landfill, it is a category A
project under IDA's Operational Directive for environmental screening. As part of the project
preparation, a full environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the proposed sanitary landfill was
prepared by intemational consultants on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with IDA's
guidelines. Annex 5 provides the summary of the EIA report.
2.6  The landfill site at Welisara was chosen from a shortlist of six sites after detailed
evaluation. Located approximately 10 km north of central Colombo, the landfill site covers
approximately 50 hectares and is essentially flat with its elevation at sea level. The area is not
suitable for cropping because of salinity and does not contain flora and fauna of ecological
significance. More than 90% of the required land is owned by GOSL; population displacement
by the landfill is minimal, involving only one family who has accepted the compensation
package for resettlement. Potential significant negative environmental impacts pertain to: (a)
surface/ground water contamination which may be caused by improper handling of waste
construction materials during construction of the landfill site or escape of leachate during
operation; and (b) changes to the flood storage capacity of the catchment of the Kalu Oya river,
which may lead to increased flooding upstream and downstream of the landfill site. The EIA
fully addresses these potential impacts and recommends appropriate mitigation measures. The
design of the landfill will incorporate a range of environmental protection measures to ensure
that development and operation of the landfill site does not result in unacceptable residual
impact on the surrounding environment. These include engineering of containment of the site,
provision of a leachate collection and treatment system, bunding and provision of piped potable
water supplies to the local community. Taking into account the lack of local expertise in
modem sanitary landfills, construction and operation of the landfill and compost plant would be



- 9 -
procured through two linked contracts to be awarded to the same contractor (para 2.13).
Formal plans for site operation, environmental control and monitoring, and restoration will be
developed as part of the detailed design process to be carried out by the selected landfill
contractor. During negotiations, it was agreed that GOSL/CMC will implement or cause to be
implemented mitigation measures and a monitoring system for the landfill satisfactory to I)A.
2.7   To minimize negative impact due to the sitting and operation of the two wastewater
treatment plants (para. 2.2[b]) for which GOSL is seeking private sector financing, the
consultant .o be appointed under the project for assisting with the invitation and evaluation of
BOO/BOT proposals for the wastewater treatment plants will carry out the required
environment assessments under terms of references agreed with IDA.
E. Project Costs
2.8   Th~ total cost )f the project, including price and physical contingencies, duties and taxes,
and the project preparation advance, is estimated at US$49.0 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$20.9 million. Duties and taxes would amount to US$4.6 rnillion. Project
base cos.s are at December 1994 price levels. Physical contingencies of 15% are included fbr
ail project components. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on an average annual
price ir.crease of 2.5% for 1995-2000. Price contingencies for local costs are based on a
projected annual inflation rate of 15% for 1995, declining to 7.5% by 1997 and thereafter.
Maintenance of purchasing power parity is assumed for exchange rate changes over the life of
the project. Total price contingencies amount to 9% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 2.1. Detailed project cost
estimates are provided in Annex 6.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimate
SLRs million                  USS million
Local   Foreign    Total     L1ca   Ereign     Ih
Municipal Solid Waste Management       290.2    335.4    625.6         5.8       6.7      12.5
Wastewater Collection Systems          334.0     120.0    454.0        6.7       2.4       9.1
Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control  358.7    141.6    500.3        7.2       2.8      10.0
Technical Assistance
Project Preparation Advance            7.0      28.0      35.0      0.1        0.6       0.7
Implementation Support                52.7      99.8     152.5       1.1       2.0       3.1
Capacity Building                     71.6     116.4     188.0       1.4      2.3        3.7
Total Base Cost                       1114.2    841.2    1955.4       22.3      16.8      39.1
Physical Contingencies                 165.7    118.3    284.0         3.3       2.4       5.7
Price Contingencies                    558.7    389.3    948.0         2.5       1.7       4.2
Total Project Cost                    1J9386    13488    318'14       2du 2Qa             i



- 10-
F. Project Financing
2.9 The proposed IDA credit of US$39.0 million equivalent would finance the project's
foreign cost and 64% of the local cost, covering about 88% of the total project cost net of
duties and taxes. The remaining local cost of US$10.0 million equivalent would be met by
GOSL's budgetary allocations. The project's financing plan is shown in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign     Total    %
IDA       18.1      20.9      39.0   80
GOSL        10.0a 10.0   20
Total     2L         212       49 0 Q0
2.10  Up to now, financing for water supply and sanitation investments in Sri Lanka has
come mostly from multilateral and bilateral sources. Onlending interest rates were not set
according to the prevailing market rates in the country, partly because of the absence of long
term financial instruments in the local capital market. To promote a commercial orientation in
the operations of municipal services, the timing is considered appropriate to set onlending rates
that take account of market rates. However, intermediation costs in the incipient local market
are high (4 to 5 percentage points) due to inefficiencies and large provisions for bad loans. In
these circumstances, the average weighted deposit rate (AWDR) on interest bearing deposits
of the Greater Colombo branches of domestic commercial banks, which is published on a
weekly basis, provides the floor for onlending rates. GOSL would onlend part of the credit
proceeds to CMC and NWSDB for their respective components on a variable rate basis linked
to the AWDR and adjustable every six months, repayable over 20 years, including 6 years of
grace. GOSL would bear the foreign exchange risk. Regarding the Beira Lake catchment
pollution control component, UDA would execute this component on GOSL's behalf and
would maintain separate project accounts thereof The above terms will be incorporated in
separate implementation agreements (IA) to be executed between GOSL and each of the three
project implementing agencies. The effectiveness of lAs between GOSL and CMC/NWSDB/
UDA under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA are conditions of credit effectiveness.



. I1 -
G. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
2.11   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.3 below:
Table 2.3: Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ millions)
- Procurement Methods -
Project Elements                  ICB      LCB      Other     NBF         Total
Landfill and Compost Plant                         14.4                                     14.4
(11.4)                                   (11.4)
Works
Wastewater Collection Systems                      11.4                                     11.4
(8.5)                                    (8.5)
Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control             12.9                                     12.9
(9.6)                                    (9.6)
C ommunity Infrastructure                                             0.9                    0.9
(0.6)                 (0.6)
EguipmLnt                                           2.4                                      2.4
(1.9)                                   (1.9)
Consultancy Services. Mass Media and Training
Project Implementation Support                                        3.7                    3.7
(3.7)                 (3.7)
Capacity Building                                                      1.0                   1.0
(1.0)                 (1.0)
Studies                                                                1.1                   1.1
(1. 1)                (I. 1)
Public Awareness Program                                              0.5                    0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
Project Preparation Advance                                           0.7                    0.7
Total                                              41.1               7.9                   49.0
(31.4)             (7.6)                (39.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the credit.
2.12   Goods and Works. Procurement of goods and works under the project will be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits
(January 1995), using IDA's standard bid documents for procurement under ICB.
2.13   Construction and operation of the landfill and compost plant will be procured through
two separate but linked turnkey contracts. One contract (Contract A) comprises detailed
design and phased construction of the landfill site, compost plant and other associated facilities,
and procurement of mobile equipment required for the landfill operation; the second contract
(Contract B) will commence once initial construction is complete and the site is ready to
receive wastes and will include operation of the landfill site and progressive restoration of the
finished surface. These two contracts will be tendered under one package and awarded at the
same time to the same contractor following intemational competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. The credit would finance Contract A only; CMC and other participating local



- 12 -
authorities would jointly meet the operating costs of the landfill under Contract B subject to the
contractor's meeting industry standard efficiency norms.
2.14   Construction of the wastewater collection systems would be bid under one single
responsibility contract following ICB. The sewerage works in the Beira Lake catchment area
would be procured under two single responsibility ICB packages. Contractors bidding for the
above works will be prequalified. Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors will be eligible
for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5%.
2.15   The proposed community infrastructure to be constructed under IDA financing
comprises mainly provision of piped potable water supply to the community residing adjacent
to the new landfill site, upgrading of local roads, and construction of a community center
complex. To involve the local community in the design and implementation of the
infrastructure and to provide income-generating opportunities, the above works, estimated to
cost US$0.9 million in aggregate, would be procured using procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.16  Equipment needed for the collection, transport and disposal of clinical waste and for
the geographic information system would be procured under ICB procedures.
2.17  Consultancy Services. Consultancy services financed by IDA would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981), including use of the Bank's Standard
Form of Contract for Consultants' Services. Selection of consultants for all assignments would
be from a shortlist agreed by IDA and under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Procurement of services for the environmental public awareness program (mass media) would
follow procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.18  IDA's Prior Review. All goods contracts valued US$200,000 or more, works contracts
US$300,000 or more, consulting firm contracts US$100,000 or more, and individual
consultant contracts US$50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA. This would
cover about 90% of procurement financed under the proposed credit.
Disbursement
2.19  Disbursement under the proposed credit will be made against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for the landfill
tumkey contract and other works procured under ICB;
(b)   70% of total expenditure for civil works procured locally;
(c)    100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) for good procured through ICB and 70% of local expenditures for items
procured locally;
(d)   100% of total expenditures for consultancy services, mass media and training;
and



- 13 -
(e)   the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of the effectiveness of the credit and all unpaid charges thereon.
To ensure construction of wastewater collection systems in Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela is
synchronized with that of the wastewater treatment plants, agreement was reached with GOSL/
NWSDB during negotiations that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures for
the wastewater collection works unless financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the
construction of t:le said wastewater treatment plants have been concluded.
2.20   To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in US$ will be established in a local bank
acceptable to IDA with an authorized allocation of US$2.5 million equivalent, estimated on the
basis if four months' average expenditures. The authorized allocation would be limited to an
amount to US$1,700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the credit plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments equals the equivalent of US$6,000,000 or
more. A'l disburserr ents will be made following standard IDA documentation requirements,
except for (a) contracts valued at US$300,000 or less for works, (b) contracts valued at
UJS$200,000 or less for goods, (c) consultants' contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent
per contiact for firms and US$50,000 equivalent per contract for individuals, for which
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedures will be used. The project implementing agencies
will retain detailed documentation supporting SOEs for inspection by IDA supervision
missions.
2.21   The disbursement schedule shown in Annex 7 is based on completion of the proposed
project by June 30, 2000. The credit closing date would be June 30, 2001. The total
disbursement period for the project is expected to be about six years after credit approval.
H. Proiect Implementation
2.22  Implementing Agencies and Responsibilities. The institutional responsibilities for
project implementation are shown below:
Project Component                                Agencies
Solid Waste Management
- landfill contracts administration            CMC
- clinical waste management                    CMC
- community infrastructure                     UDA/WPC
- coordination among participating LAs         UDA/WPC
Wastewater Collection Systems                    NWSDB
Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control
- monitoring and enforcement                   UDA
- sewerage works                               NWSDB



- 14-
2.23   CMC. CMC is the largest and only jurisdiction in Sri Lanka that presently has an
organized solid waste management system. The Solid Waste Management Division under the
Municipal Engineer's Department is responsible for collection and disposal of domestic,
commercial and industrial solid waste generated within the Municipality. Solid waste
collection is organized areawise corresponding to the 47 electorates (called wards) which are
grouped in to six districts. The Division has about 110 technical and supervisory staff, a
workforce of 2,100, and a fleet of 109 collection vehicles. Besides having most of the locally
available technical and management capabilities, the CMC is the largest beneficiary of the new
landfill and hence the primary stakeholder of the landfill component. The Division, with
assistance of management consultants, will be responsible for the following: (a) procurement
and supervision of the landfill construction and operation contracts; (b) implementation of
clinical waste management including training of hospital staff and procurement of equipment
and collection/transport services; (c) implementation of a phased program of contracting out
primary solid waste collection; and (d) implementation of adequate cost recovery mechanisms
to sustain the delivery of solid waste services.
2.24   For economies of scale, the new landfill is designed to serve the solid waste disposal
needs of CMC and about 14 LAs located in the CMA. The Welisara landfill site is within the
jurisdiction of the Wattala Urban Council. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that
GOSL will take all necessary actions to ensure that CMC has full and complete access at any
time to the landfill site during the construction and operation of the landfill. To foster broad
beneficiary participation, UDA, with the assistance of the Western Provincial Council (WPC),
will serve as the focal point for coordinating among all LAs that intend to use the landfill site.
2.25   NWSDB. Created under the 1974 National Water Supply and Drainage Board Act,
NWSDB is the principal institution involved in the development of urban and rural piped water
supply schemes and urban sewerage schemes. NWSDB's most important activity is the
abstraction of water from the Kelani Ganga for supplying the CMA. It administers 216
systems nationwide, has about 6,800 employees and serves about 4.8 million people.
Operational management has been decentralized to five regional offices, which oversee district
offices headed by district managers. NWSDB functions under the Ministry of Housing,
Construction and Public Utilities (MHCPU).
2.26   Past IDA operations in the water and sanitation sector in Sri Lanka have included
assistance to improve NWSDB's technical and financial management capabilities and
operating practices. To date, IDA has made four credits for the sector; of these, three were
implemented by NWSDB. The first two credits (Crs. 709-CE and 1041 -CE) helped finance
the expansion of the Colombo water supply system and were closed in December 1983 and
September 1986, respectively. The third credit (Cr. 1700-CE, US$37.0 million) focuses
primarily on rehabilitation of water supply systems in and outside Colombo and is to close on
June 30, 1995. Project implementation performance has been overall satisfactory. The
existing project implementation unit for Cr. 1700-CE will be maintained to implement the
wastewater collection systems project component as well as the Beira Lake catchment area
sewerage works.
2.27   UDA. UDA was established under the Urban Development Authority Law of 1978,
with the responsibility to carry out integrated planning and physical development of urban areas



- 15 -
in Sri Lanka. Since its inception, several amendments to the 1978 UDA law have been passed
which provide UDA with wide powers to acquire, develop and dispose of lands and properties,
and exercise stringent controls over urban development activities. The areas within UDA's
purview include 11 municipal councils, 35 urban councils, 46 local authorities, the Trincomalee
District, and local authorities located within a one kilometer-wide belt along the coast. The
functions of UDA include: (a) carry out integrated planning and physical development within
and among the designated development areas; (b) formulate and implement an urban land use
policy; (c) devel p environmental standards and prepare schemes for environmental
improvemf nts in the development areas; (d) formulate and execute housing schemes; and (e)
cause the clearing of slum and shanty areas and undertake the development of such areas.
2.28   UDA reports to MHCPU and is managed by a 13-member Board, comprising the
UDA chairman, 4 members nominated by the Minister and 8 members representing other
Government Ministries. There are eight divisions in UDA responsible, respectively, for
Planning, Lands and roperty, Design and Project Management, Development Regulation,
Building Regulations, Finance, Legal Matter, and Administration. UDA presently has nearly
1,000 employees. Given that UDA plays an important role in the overall development of the
CMA, in :luding the Beira Lake area, GOSL designated it as the apex agency responsible for
the Beira Lake restoration. Since the phase I interventions to be implemented under the project
are sewerage works, NWSDB will oversee the implementation of the physical works on
UDA's behalf UDA has established a project unit for managing the various technical
assistance activities, including the Beira Lake monitoring program.
2.29   Project Coordination and Monitoring. For project coordination and monitoring, a
Project Coordinator was appointed in November 1994 in the MHCPU, who will coordinate the
project activities on a daily basis. The project will also be monitored by a Project Monitoring
Committee chaired by the Secretary of MHCPU and comprising one representative each from
the MHCPU, Ministry of Finance, Planning, Ethnic Affairs and National Integration, CMC,
UDA, WPC, NWSDB, Ministry of Transport, Highways, Environment and Women's Affairs,
and CEA. The Project Coordinator will function as the Committee's convener. IDA Resident
Mission in Colombo will be represented as an observer. The Committee would meet as often
as necessary but not less than once a month to review project status against the implementation
plan and a set of key progress targets and development impact monitoring indicators (para
2.31). Minutes of the Project Monitoring Committee meetings would be prepared by the
Project Coordinator and distributed to all Committee members as well as IDA headquarters in
Washington.
2.30   Public Participation. To enhance public participation and support for the project
implementation, it was agreed to constitute a Public Consultation Panel. The panel would
comprise five representatives from citizens' groups including NGOs and four representatives
from Govemment agencies. The terms of reference of the panel is presented in Annex 8. The
composition of the panel was confirmed during negotiations.
2.31   Project Implementation Plan. A time-bound implementation plan for each project
component and key physical progress and development impact monitoring indicators are given
in Annex 9. These were discussed and agreed with GOSL and the implementing agencies
during negotiations. To minimize risk of delay in the project's physical start-up, appointment
of (a) project supervisory consultants for the solid waste management component, the



- 16 -
wastewater collection systems and the Beira Lake catchment area sewerage works, and (b) a
consultant to assist with the solicitation and evaluation of BOO/BOT proposals for the
wastewater treatment plants are conditions of credit effectiveness. Project implementation is
expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
I. Project Reporting and Auditing
2.32   The frequency and format of project reporting requirements were discussed and
agreed with the implementing agencies during negotiations. During project implementation,
CMC, NWSDB and UDA will prepare quarterly progress reports covering their respective
project components; these will be submitted to IDA via the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
within one month of the end of the quarter. The main purpose of the reports is to provide
timely and updated information on implementation of the project components, highlighting
issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in following up
earlier recommendations. An outline of the project progress reporting requirements is in
Annex 10. Within four months of project completion, CMCfNWSDB/UDA will prepare and
furnish to IDA their portion of the Project Implementation Completion Report in accordance
with IDA guidelines, on the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and the
benefits derived from it, the accomplishment of the objectives of the credit, the plan for the
project's future operation and the lessons learned.
2.33   CMC, NWSDB and UDA are required to maintain separate accounts for their
respective project components. Independent auditors, acceptable to IDA will audit annually the
project accounts as well as the agencies' financial statements, including withdrawals made on
the basis of SOEs and from the Special Account, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles acceptable to IDA. CMC/NWSDB/UDA will submit these audit reports to IDA not
later than seven months after the end of each fiscal year.
J. Proiect Supervision
2.34  It is expected that two supervision missions per year would be required over the life of
the project, with an estimated total staff input of 85 staff weeks. More extensive supervision
would be required during the first two years of the project during which time the technical
assistance would be made operational and many procurement contracts would be tendered,
evaluated and awarded. Supervision would be provided by engineering, environmental and
financial staff, as well as urban planning and GIS specialists as needed. A tentative supervision
plan with staffing and timing of the missions is given in Annex 11. The first supervision
scheduled for October 1995 will organize a project launch workshop. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOSL on a comprehensive mid-term project review to be carried
out not later than September 30, 1997. The mid-term review will focus on (a) progress of the
landfill construction; (b) the cost recovery mechanisms put into place to meet the operating
costs of the landfill; (c) progress of CMC and other LAs in involving the private sector in solid
waste services; (d) GOSL's progress in securing private sponsors for the two wastewater
treatment plants proposed for Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela; (e) implementation of cost recovery
measures for the Colombo sewerage system; and (f) progress of capacity building technical
assistance.



- 17 -
m. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
3.1    Historically, provision of basic municipal services, including solid waste collection and
sanitation, has been a public sector undertaking in Sri Lanka. To date, financing of investments
in the water supply and sanitation sector has been entirely arranged by GOSL, and funds
secured from multilateral and bilateral sources were passed on to NWSDB and local
authorities on concessionary terms. For water supply schemes operated and managed by
NWSDB, NWSDB has adopted the policy of setting water tariffs at levels sufficient to meet
operations and maintenance costs plus debt service to GOSL in accordance with the onlending
agreei Ments. However, the lack of funding for operations and maintenance resulting from
limited or nonexistent cost recovery mechanisms found in most local authorities has hindered
progress in extending coverage of urgently needed solid waste and sewerage services. To
improve overall man.gement and delivery of crucial municipal services, adoption of adequate
cost recovery mechanisms is an important first step. To this end, agreement was reached
during negotiations on the mechanisms of setting up dedicated sources of funding to sustain the
operatior.s of the project-supported investments as detailed below.
Solid Waste Services
3.2    Presently, rates and property taxes remain the single largest source of revenue for
municipal and local authorities. According to CMC's 1995 budget, revenues from rates and
property taxes, rents, fees and charges total about SLRs 1.1 billion, as against a budget of
recurrent expenditures of SLRs 1.2 billion. Current expenditures on solid waste services over
the period amount to SLRs 160 million or SLRs 760/ton (US$15/ton). Recognizing the room
for efficiency gains, CMC plans to contract out primary solid waste collection services over the
period of 1996-97. Technical assistance is provided under the project to prepare model
bidding and contract documents for concessioning solid waste primary collection services and
for assisting CMC and participating LAs in awarding concessions and monitoring compliance
with contract conditions. Based on the assumptions of (a) CMC's achieving a 20% savings in
collection costs, (b) a tipping fee of SLRs 1 50/ton (US$3.0/ton) at the new landfill, and (c)
CMC's bearing the full construction cost of the landfill, it is estimated that CMC would need
to raise additional revenues in the order of SLRs 90 million per year to meet the operating cost
of the landfill and debt service to GOSL.2 The above amount is equal to about 10% of the
1995 levies of rates and property taxes and entails an increase of SLRs 900 (US$18) per
property per year. No major difficulties are envisaged for CMC to raise the estimated amount
through direct service charges or other means within a 3-year period of 1996-98. For the other
LAs who use the Welisara landfill, they would be required to share, as a minimum, the
incremental operating costs incurred by the landfill operator.
3.3    To ensure funds generated through collection of property taxes or levy of separate solid
waste charges are readily available to meet the operating cost of the sanitary landfill, it was
agreed during negotiations that (a) CMC and participating LAs will open and maintain an
2 Based on the projected waste disposal of 250,000 tonnes per year and a tipping fee of SLRs 150/ton, the operating cost to be
bome by CMC would be SLRs 37.5 million; the annualized capital cost for a USS14 million investment would amount to
SLRs 82 million per year assuming a 20-year repayTnent period and a 10% interest rate; a 20% cost reduction in
collection services would yield SLRs 30 million per year.



- 18 -
escrow account with a financial intermediary for the purpose of making payments to the landfill
operator; (b) commencing at least three months prior to the date when the site is ready to
receive wastes, make monthly deposits into the escrow account based on the projected
tonnages of wastes and the cost-sharing formula agreed by CMC and other participating LAs;
and (c) maintain the balance in the escrow account at a level sufficient to cover three months of
the operating expenses of the landfill.
SewemageSe
3.4  Colombo Sewerage System. Adequate cost recovery is also critically needed with
respect to sewerage services. CMC through its Drainage Division is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the stormwater and sanitary sewerage systems in Colombo. Due
to the age of the gravity sewers and lack of proper maintenance resulting from chronic shortage
of funds and lack of equipment and technical know-how to effect repairs, the existing sewerage
system is in need of extensive repair and rehabilitation to restore its capacity. As visual
inspections alone are inadequate to determine the extent of remedial work needed, a program to
clean and inspect the major sewers needs to be carried out as a first step. Given CMC's
limitations in terms of availability of skilled manpower and equipment resources, it has been
agreed that commencing in January 1996, NWSDB will take over the operation and
maintenance responsibility of the Colombo sewerage system.
3.5  To date, there has been a reluctance to implement a separate tariff for sewerage services.
The rates collected by CMC include an unspecified portion for sewerage services.
Nevertheless, annual appropriations from CMC's pool of general revenues have been
inadequate, and this is the root cause of the poor physical state of the sewerage system. For
NWSDB to properly operate and maintain the Colombo sewerage system in the future, a
dedicated source of funding for sewerage operations based on cost recovery targets will be
established. It was agreed during negotiations that (a) CMC and NWSDB will, starting
January 1, 1996, establish and maintain a dedicated account to fund operation and maintenance
of the Colombo sewerage system; (b) CMC will contribute, from its revenue generation, an
amount not below SLRs 70 million for 1996 and each year thereafter; and (c) NWSDB will
contribute, with funds generated through water billing surcharge, an amount not below SLRs
20 million for 1996 and each year thereafter. The above funding is about twice the level of
current annual budgetary allocations and would cover the full operation and maintenance cost
of the Colombo sewerage system in the interim period.
3.6   Industrial Wastewater Treatment. According to the feasibility study reports of the
Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela wastewater collection and treatment schemes, a sewerage tariff in
the order of SLRs 40/m3 is required to achieve full cost recovery. This is in addition to the
connection cost to be bome by individual users. The estimated charges for wastewater
treatment would be around one to four percent of the annual revenues of individual industries
and are considered affordable. In the case of Ratmalana scheme, since the proposed system is
intended to serve residential areas as well, some form of cross-subsidy from industrial users
would be needed to encourage speedy connections by domestic consumers. To sustain the
operation of the investments, it was agreed during negotiations that NWSDB will generate
revenues from its sewerage operations in Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela, sufficient to cover the



- 19 -
full operating and maintenance cost of the sewer networks and the amounts billed by the
wastewater treatment plant operators.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
4.1    The project addresses underlying causes of environmental degradation in the Colombo
metropolitan area and will benefit over 3 million people. The replacement of open dumps with
a controlled sanitary landLill will eliminate contamination of surface and ground water
resources from open dump seepage or leachates, improve urban environmental conditions and
landscape aesthetics. Improved management of hospital wastes through specialized collection
and safe disposal will lower public health impacts of uncontrolled disposal of infectious and
pathological wastes. The two industrial areas at Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela account for about
60% of polluting industries in the CMA; the sewerage investments would thus lead to a
significant reduction in the overall pollution contribution of the industrial sector and a general
improvement in the population health in the areas concerned. The interventions in the Beira
Lake catchment will help reduce associated environmental and health hazards and open the
way for environmentally sustainable development of the lake's surrounding area in the longer
term. Besides the above direct benefits, the project would serve to catalyze private
participabon in the delivery of critical urban infrastructure services traditionally undertaken by
the public sector. This is expected to contribute to increased service coverage, improved
service quality and efficiency. The project would also have a significant demonstration effect
to sensitize other urban authorities to adopt better managed and environmentally sound wastes
management systems.
4.2  Since the project has significant environmental and social benefits which are not
easily quantifiable, a rate of return calculated based on the magnitude of cost recovery
would not measure the economic merit of the project; thus, no attempt has been made in
this regard. Instead, using a cost effectiveness approach, the project's physical
investments have been subjected to systematic comparisons of alternatives in terms of
capital and recurrent costs, suitability under local conditions, institutional requirements
and environmental impacts. The selected alternatives would effectively integrate both
environmental and economic objectives, and contribute to enhancing public health and
productivity. The cost recovery measures adopted under the project and private sector
participation in the provision and operation of wastes management services would lead to
a minimal fiscal impact on GOSL's budgetary resources and ensure project sustainability.
The project design incorporates monitoring indicators of both physical progress and
developmental impact.
B. Project Risks
4.3   Potential project risks are: (a) shortfalls in cost recovery to sustain the operations of the
project supported investments; (b) weak enforcement of industrial wastewater discharge
standards by CEA, which would reduce pressure on industries to connect to the joint



- 20 -
wastewater collection and treatment systems; and (c) lack of adequate response from the
private sector for the two wastewater treatment plants. These risks have been recognized and
suitable safeguards have been incorporated in the project implementation as detailed below.
4.4    Cost Recovery. To sustain the operations of project facilities agreement was reached
during negotiations on the mechanisms for setting up dedicated sources of funds for the above
operations and on cost recovery targets satisfactory to IDA (paras. 3.3, 3.5 and 3.6).
4.5   Enforcement. To step up enforcement, GOSL has committed to implementing a time-
bound compliance program for the two industrial areas. Under this program, CEA, NWSDB
and each of the targeted industries will enter into an agreement confirming compliance with
established effluent discharge standards through using the proposed joint treatment facilities or
its own captive treatment plant. All agreements would be concluded by June 1997.
4.6   Financing of Wastewater Treatment Plants. To minimize the risk that private sector
interest may not materialize in a time frame commensurate with the implementation of the
project, GOSL through NWSDB will implement a program of specific actions aimed at
concluding contractual agreements with private sponsors by March 1997 (as detailed in Annex
9, Section II.C). Intemational consultants will be mobilized in October 1995 to assist in the
preparation of solicitation packages and evaluation of proposals. No withdrawals would be
allowed with respect to the wastewater collection works until financing arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the construction of the treatment plants have been concluded. It was
also agreed during negotiations that, in the event that private sector BOO/BOT arrangements
fail to develop, GOSL will arrange funds from altemative sources for the construction of the
wastewater treatment plants.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1  During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  terms of reference, shortlists, letters of invitations, and timetable to engage
project implementation support consultants (para. 2.3);
(b)   GOSL will cause to be implemented the mitigation measures for the sanitary
landfill satisfactory to IDA (para.2.6);
(c)   GOSL will take all necessary actions to ensure that CMC has full and complete
access at any time to the project landfill site (para. 2.24);
(d)  the composition of the Public Consultation Panel (para. 2.30);
(e)   project implementation plan and mid-term review (paras. 2.31 and 2.34),
(f)   project reporting requirements (para. 2.32);



-21 -
(g)   CMC/NWSDBIUDA will (i) maintain separate accounts for their respective
project components; (ii) have the project accounts as well as their respective
annual accounts audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(iii) provide to IDA not later than seven months after the end of each fiscal year
the audit reports, including a separate opinion on withdrawals made on the basis
of SOEs and from the Special Account (para. 2.33);
(h)   CMC and participating LAs will: (i) open and maintain an escrow account with
a financial intermediary for the purpose of making payments to the landfill
operator; (ii) commencing at least three months prior to the date when the site is
ready to receive wastes, make monthly deposits into the escrow account based on
the projected tonnages of wastes and the cost-sharing formula agreed by CMC
and other participating LAs; and (iii) maintain the balance in the escrow account
at a level sufficient to cover three months of the operating expenses of the landfill
(para. 3.3);
(i)   CMC and NWSDB will establish a dedicated source of funding for the
operations of the Colombo sewerage system acceptable to IDA (para. 3.5);
(j)   NWSDB will generate revenues from its sewerage operations in Ratmalana and
Ekala/Ja-Ela, sufficient to cover the full operating and maintenance cost of the
sewer networks and the amounts billed by the wastewater treatment plant
operators (para. 3.6);
(k)   GOSL will implement a time-bound industrial effluent discharge standards
compliance program for the two industrial areas (para. 4.5); and
(1)   GOSL will arrange funds from alternative sources for the construction of the two
wastewater treatment plants in the event that private sector interest fails to
materialize (para. 4.6).
5.2   Before credit effectiveness, the following actions would be completed:
(a)   appointment of (i) project supervisory consultants for the solid waste
management component, the wastewater collection systems and the Beira
Lake catchment area sewerage works and (ii) consultant for the solicitation and
evaluation of BOO/BOT proposals for the wastewater treatment plants (para
2.31); and
(b)   project implementation agreements between GOSL and CMC/NWSBD/UDA
have been executed (para. 2.10).
5.3    As conditions of disbursement, no withdrawals would be made in respect of
expenditures for the wastewater collection systems in Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela until
financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the construction of the two wastewater
treatment plans have been concluded (para. 2.19).



- 22 -
5.4    With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a development credit of SDR 24.8 million (US$39.0 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 2.
Annex I
Page 1 of 6
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Summary
1.    The combined results of demographic, economic and industrial growth have evolved to a state
where generation of municipal and industrial waste is outstripping the capacity of the Govemment of
Sri Lanka (GOSL) to provide infrastructure to accommodate ever increasing volumes. The proposed
project component would concentrate on CMA's most pressing needs by providing for a new sanitary
landfill to replace existing open dumps, assisting in the preparation of a detailed long term waste
management strategy and disposal plan for the whole of the metropolitan area, separating hospital
waste from municipal waste and devising a program to handle it safely, helping reduce the quantity of
waste that requires disposal through the promotion of composting, and finally, by furnishing technical
assistance to develop in-country waste management capabilities with particular focus on helping
arrange private sector participation in solid waste management.
Background.
2.     The CMA comprises the Colombo Municipal Council (CMC) and 30 urban local authorities
(ULAs) in the Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha Districts of the Western Province. Up to four million
residents plus commuters generate CMA's solid waste. The waste consists mainly of three types:
(a) municipal waste from domestic and commercial sources; (b) industrial waste generated within
specific industrial parks and by other industries scattered throughout CMA; and (c) hospital waste. As
Sri Lanka's industrial and commercial capital, Colombo is expected to grow by one-third over the next
decade, thus virtually guaranteeing that waste generation will also continue to grow.
3.    Municipal Waste. Studies completed by the National Building Research Organization (NBRO)
show that municipal solid waste in CMA is presently collected at the rate of approximately
1,100 tons/day (tpd). The breakdowns are: 680 tpd from CMC, 90 tpd from Dehiwala - Mt. Lavinia,
120 tpd from Moratuwa, and 112 tpd from Kotte, and the rest from the remaining 27 ULAs. The ratio
of waste collected to waste generated ranges from approximately 93% in CMC to as little as 5% in
some of the smaller ULAs. The current volume of waste to be disposed of annually is 450,000 m3,
projected to increase at 4% per annum for the foreseeable future.
4.    Hospital Waste. Current disposal of medical wastes is not environmentally acceptable.
Dangerous infectious clinical wastes are mixed with municipal waste. This indiscriminate mixing poses
a serious health hazard at each stage of collection and storage within the hospital, and of transport and
disposal in landfills and open dumps. Even though Colombo's 20-odd hospitals generate only about
4 tons per day of waste, an acceptable management and disposal system is urgently required. Whereas
the bulk of the waste strearm, about 85% by volume, consists of non-clinical waste, especially
packaging and food, the remaining clinical portion is far more important despite its smaller share in
volume. Clinical wastes, currently estimated at about 3 tons per day, consists of human tissue, sharps
(i.e., needles, glass), disposable medical equipmernt (e.g., gloves, aprons, urine containers),
pharmaceutical wastes, laboratory wastes, special treatment wastes (e.g., from treating cancer), and
low level radioactive wastes.



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
5.    Segregation of sharps has recently been introduced, but even so, they are merely kept in
overflowing cardboard boxes while awaiting pickup within the hospital. Intemational standards
comnonly require that sharps be incinerated, and their ash disposed in a sanitary landfill. Since such
facilities are unavailable in Colombo, sharps are often burned on hospital grounds merely using
kerosene. Other clinical wastes are deposited together with nonclinical wastes in regular trash
containers without special lids to keep them securely fastened. From that point, the containers are
transported in open trolleys through corridors to an open container where they are kept awaiting pick-
up by CMC. In some instances, scavengers ferret through the mixed waste.
6.    Radioactive waste, however, is handled more efficiently. The liquid portion is deposited in a
properly constructed well which is monitored regularly and has not shown signs of contarmination.
Similarly, the solid portion is kept in a proper storage area for a period of about two years, by which
time the waste is rendered harmless.
7.    Collection. Within CMC, waste is taken from households by handcarts and deposited at some
1,004 container collection points. The containers generally provide adequate and tidy storage of the
waste prior to collection for disposal. Their contents can be efficiently loaded by automatic means into
collection vehicles. Within the other ULAs, waste collection points generally are little more than open
patches of ground where waste is dumped, requiring hand-loading onto secondary transport, which
transfers it to the disposal site. This entails a variety of vehicles ranging from refiise compaction
vehicles to simple trucks. The service is carried out to an unequal standard; high grade commercial and
residential areas generally receive good service, which rapidly deteriorates in poorer areas. Several
waste management studies have been carried out on CMA. Problems include shortages across a broad
range of items: financial resources, vehicles, containers, maintenance facilities, and disposal facilities,
together with the skills to manage these facilities.
8.    Disposal. Currently, most of CMA's waste is disposed of at Wellampitiya, a 12 ha. marshy site
within the city. It is expected that the site will reach its maximum capacity to accept waste after 1995.
About two-thirds of the waste collected in CMC is deposited at Wellampitiya. Some ULAs also use
this site for disposal, but most ULAs tend to use local uncontrolled dumps. Even though Wellampitiya
is spoken of as a sanitary landfill, it was designed mainly to get garbage out of the way. When it was
developed as a waste disposal site, little preparatory work was undertaken to contain surface water,
control leachate, or prevent gas. All these factors have contributed to contamination of the local
aquifer. No cover material is available at the site and the waste sometimes remains uncovered. Flocks
of crows seem permanent and it is certain that other pests are present.  The site also exudes
considerable odor, which has resulted in many complaints from nearby residents. A considerable
number of scavengers are present on the site.
The Municipal Solid Waste Management Component
9.    The Municipal Solid Waste Management Component consists of five subcomponents:
(i) a landfill at Welisara; (ii) hospital waste management; (iii) compost promotion; (iv) assistance to
prepare a long-term disposal strategy; and (v) institutional development.



- 25
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
10.   Welisara Landfill. The subcomponent consists of: (i) construction of a new landfill at Welisara
to meet disposal requirements of CMC and 14 of the 30 ULAs located north and east of CMC for the
7-vear period 1998-2004; preparation of final designs/plans for site development, monitoring and
closure; procurement of equipment; and (ii) management and operation of the facilities, including
specific responsibilities relating to hospital waste disposal.
11.   The Welisara site for the landfill was selected from about 300 potential sites. These were
subject to various evaluations and finally six were shortlisted and considered in detail. The site has
been chosen because it does not contain flora and fauna of ecological significance, and is not of major
economic importance to CMA or local inhabitants. The landfill site covers approximately 32 ha,
although some 50 ha will need to be set aside to allow the appropriate buffer zones, and is essentially
flat with its elevation at sea level. The site geology consists primarily of several meters of peat with
layers of organic sands and clays overlying latefite bedrock. The peat is to be excavated to create void
space for the waste and will be used as daily cover for the waste as it is deposited. The site has been
designed to accommodate around 2.5 x 106 tons of waste. Total capacity of the site is calculated at
around 3.5 x 106m3, which allows for an additional 20% volume to accommodate engineering works
and environmental protection measures such as tipping area, leachate treatment lagoons, compost
plant, flood protection earthworks and peat storage. Apart from the area to be filled, the site would
incorporate a waste reception area. Waste reception facilities would consist of: an approach road
about Sm wide; 2 weigh bridges with by-pass lanes, plus a booking office; 2 electronically operated
barriers; 2 vehicle wash bays, plus lagoons for waste water and oily deposits; and a notice board with
pertinent information on regulations, rates and schedules (in 3 Sinhala, Tamil and English). Support
facilities include: security gate and fencing; site management office; apron for maintenance; stores;
parking area; testing laboratory; first-aid/health room; vehicle maintenance workshop (20m x 20m);
fenced-in plant compound/workshop (40m x 40m); fuel storage and refueling area. The site has been
designed with adequate space to avoid blockage of main roads, reduce queuing and other waits. (A list
of equipment is provided in the attachment to this annex.)
12.   Construction of the landfill, procurement of mobile equipment for the operational phase, and
management of the landfill operations will be procured on a turnkey contract basis from prequalified
contractors. Formal plans for Site Operations, Environmental Control and Monitoring, Restoration
and Management will be developed by the turnkey contractor as part of the detailed design process.
The conceptual design outlines the following requirements:
(a)    Site Operation. The site will be operated on a cellular approach, with each cell
sealed at its base and sides and eventually its surface when filled to capacity. thus, at
any given time, areas would be under excavation, undergoing floor preparation, being
filled and covered, and finally being restored. All wastes will be measured, identified
and documented, to be confirmed by regular inspection to ensure that the waste is
suitable for disposal at the site. Hospital waste would be deposited in a pre-arranged
area and covered immediately with soil by a bulldozer; access to the designated area
will be strictly limited.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
(b)   Environment Control and Monitoring. The site will be monitored regularly to
ensure that all potentially adverse environmental impacts are identified and dealt with
expeditiously. These controls consist of measures to deal with litter, pests, birds,
odors, dust and mud, plus noise of operations and the risk of fire. Buffer zones will
be established to protect surrounding areas and to improve aesthetics.  No
putrescible waste will be deposited closer than 60 m from residential property, 50m
from privately held land or 30m to the railway line and the Kalu Ela river. Bunds 2-
3m high and shrubbery belts a minimum of lOm wide will be constructed for surface
planting.
(c)    Restoration.  Progressive surface restoration will take place for aesthetic and
ecological reasons, the latter primarily to limit water ingress and to control gas
emissions. It is expected that waste from the site will take up to 50 years to stabilize,
with half of the physical settlement, or up to 25% of the total waste deposited,
occurring within 3 years of capping.
(d)   Management.  Landfill operations are to be managed by the landfill turnkey
contractor. The site will be under the supervision of a designated site manager,
responsible for allocation of resources and tasks, training, supervision, enforcement
of regulated operating procedures, compliance with health and safety regulations and
with the Environmental Control and Monitoring Plan. The site will generally be
operational between the hours of 7:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m., during which time waste will
be accepted and covered and engineering works will be undertaken. The site will
have a system to ensure effective communications within the 30 ha area for the
operatives, haulers, and visitors. Unobstructed access to the site and site activities
will be maintained in the interest of emergency and first aid situations. A staff of 57
persons is envisaged, working in 12-hour shifts.  A liaison committee will be
established consisting of representatives from landfill management, the local council,
residents, and emergency services.
13.   Hospital Waste Management. The subcomponent consists of: (i) technical assistance to
implement safe housekeeping procedures for collection and storage of clinical waste in-house; and
(ii) provision of equipment for safe collection and transport of these wastes to the disposal site.
Hospital waste would be collected according to a fixed schedule and transported to the Welisara site
where it would be deposited in a prearranged area and covered immediately with soil by a bulldozer;
access to the designated area will be strictly limited.
14.   Compost Promotion. Several studies have been conducted which confirm the economic
potential for composting. A 1993 USAID-funded study of waste composition showed approximately
90% by weight of domestic and commercial solid waste (except from hotels) is organic waste and non-
recyclable paper. A 20 tpd pilot scale demonstration facility went into operation in early 1994. The
potential demand was projected to be between 72,000 - 180,000 tons per year for use in commercial
planting as a soil conditioner. Further benefits include reduced landfill space as only rejects from the
compost process (estimated at 10 percent of the volume composted) will require land filling. Based on



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page S of 6
the above, the project would finance a 100 tpd compost plant at Welisara landfill site. It is intended
that the landfill contractor will also be responsible for the final design, construction and operation of the
compost facility, and financial incentives will form part of the contract to encourage the contractor to
make a success of the composting operation and undertake the necessary market development. In
order to monitor the progress of the scheme, the contractor will be required to submit progress reports
on the status of the compost operation, the quality and quantities of compost produced, the market
situation and a financial analysis of the operation. At the end of 3 years a detailed assessment report
will be submitted by the contractor which will enable the potential for replication on a similar or larger
scale to be determined.
15.   Assistance to Prepare a Long Term Disposal Strategy.  Considerable difficulty has been
experienced in identifying and reaching agreement on the location of a landfill site to satisfy the disposal
needs of the whole of CMA. The proposed landfill at Welisara will only serve part of the CMA area
and its active life is expected to be only around seven years. To develop a longer term solution to meet
the solid waste disposal needs of the whole of the CMA, the project includes technical assistance
through consultancy services to: (a) identify and assess potential landfill sites to serve CMA, develop a
strategy for operation involving the transfer of wastes if appropriate, and provide a short list of sites for
consideration by GOSL; and (b) develop detailed conceptual designs and cost estimates for the chosen
site(s) and prepare tender documents for turnkey contracts or BOO/BOT arrangements.



-20, -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
Attachment
Welisara Landfill Site
List of Equipment
Landfill Equipment
*     3 tracked bulldozers
*     2 tracked loading shovels
*     2 tracked backhoe
*     2 dump trucks
*     I tractor and bowser
*     1 tractor and power brush
*     3 station vans or pick-up vehicles
i     fire extinguishers
*     hose pipes and hydrants
radio (walkie-talkie) system
*     sirens or a system of warning/danger flags
Composting Equipment:
e     front-end multi-bucket loader
i     3-ton dump truck
*     semi-mobile shredder
vwindrow turner
i     fine screen trommel



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
RATMALANA AND EKALA/JA-ELA WASTEWATER COLLECTION
AND TREATMENT SCHEMES
I.    For nearly two decades industries have been encouraged to grow, without concomitant
attention being paid to the consequences of industrial pollution. The resultant wastewater pollution has
been especially severe to two areas of Colombo. The proposed schemes call for the construction of a
central waste treatment plant in each of two industrial zones; one in the Ratmalana and Moratuwa area
to the south, and the other in the Ekala and Ja-Ela area to the north. Feasibility studies have been
conducted for each of the two study zones and are available in the Project File. ,
Ratmalana/Moratuwa
2.     Study Area. Ratmalana/Moratuwa is a large area of rnixed land use within the Colombo
Metropolitan Area (CMA). The overall boundaries of the study area are within the southern end of the
Dehiwela - Mt. Lavinia Municipal Council and the northern end of the Moratuwa Urban Council. The
area, about 15 km south of Cclombo, underwent major industrial development during the 1950s and
1970s. Presently, approximately 350,000 residents live in the 40 km2 which make up the area. The
area is characterized by mixed land uses, with about 225 industrial facilities intermixed with residential
and commercial establishments. Two water bodies, Lunawa Lagoon and Bolgoda Lake, are in the
area. Residential developments generally occur as single family lots, although pockets of higher density
multi-family developments are also present. Low-income and squatter settlements occur throughout
the area, in particular along canal banks and lake/lagoon shorelines, much of which is polluted.
3.    Industrial pollution has long been recognized as a problem in the area. Liquid wastes from
industries are discharged untreated into nearby drainage courses. Domestic wastewater from flush
toilets is directed to septic tanks and soakage pits, whereas grey water from showers, sinks, and
washers is generally discharged directly to roadside ditches. Pressure from expanding populations has
forced residents to construct wells adjacent to existing septic tanks, often in violation of minimum safe
distances required by planning agencies. The high water table in much of the area further aggravates
this problem  and fecal contamination of wells is becoming more evident.  Residents of these
communities are in intimate contact with the water, thus confronting problems with conmmunicable
disease and public health.
4.    Because of the continual discharge of wastewater into its tributaries, Lunawa Lagoon, which
supported a significant fisheries industry a decade ago, is totally devoid of aquatic life today. Although
Bolgoda Lake has not degraded to the same extent, there is increasing concem that the long term
effects of continued industrial wastewater discharge into it will seriously compromise its economic and
ecological value.
+ Sec (1) "Feasibility Study for the Establishment of a Central Wastewater Treatment Plant for Industrial
Estates/Industries at Ratmalana and Moratuwa," September 1994, by Associated Engineering International
Ltd. (Canada), Surath Wickremasinghe Associates (Sri Lanka); and (2) "Feasibility Study for the
Establishment of a Joint Wastewater Trcatmcnt Plant for Industrial Estates/Industries in Ekala and Ja-
Ela," April 1994, by Soil and Water Ltd. and Enviroplan Ltd. (Finland).



- 30 -                                 Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
5.    Inventory of Industries. There are over 225 industries located in the Ratmalana-Moratuwa
area, employing a workforce of more than 57,000. The majority of the industries are small to medium
scale with respect to the number of employees. Four major industrial locations are present in the study
area: the Lady Catherine Estate, the Attidiya Zone, the Airport Zone, and the Railway Workshop area.
6.    Whereas garment manufacturing and textile processing dominate, the industries are categorized
below into nine groups based on waste generation:
(a)    Garment making. This is a dry manufacturing process, with no process water usage;
over 80 such factories exist, producing clothes mainly for export; most employ less
than 500 workers, with a few employing up to 1,700 workers; wastewater is from
domestic sources. (Factories that have industrial washing facilities are classified under
TextilelProcessing).
(b)    Textile manufacturing and processing. About 50% of the total wastewater generated
in the study area is from seven large scale and 13 smaller scale factories which include:
dyeing of cloth and yam; finishing operations for fabric/clothing; industrial washing
plants; manufacture of footwear.
(c)    Metal fabrication  and equipment manufacture.   This includes 23  industries
manufacturing metal fixtures, appliances, fabricated metal products and structural
metal; effluent comes from wash water and pickling liquors.
(d)    Chemicals, pharmaceuticals and allied products. Twenty industries are involved in the
formulation of agrochemicals, cosmetics, paints and thinners, of which four
manufacture drugs. Most effluent comes from washing operations rather than process
water since many of the industries are involved with mixing, formulation and
repackaging products, as opposed to their manufacture.
(e)    Food and beverage processing.  This sector consists of four large biscuit and
confectionery manufacturers, plus 13 others that include factories which process ice
cream, package milk powder, and bottle beverages.
(f)    Equipment maintenance, repair workshops and technical training centers.  Sixteen
facilities consist of maintenance workshops for industrial machinery, heavy equipment
and vehicles (e.g., railways, roads/construction, irrigation, airport); they produce
effluent consisting of spill-offs, and wash water from servicing and repairs.
(g)    Printing. There are nine printing presses and one manufacturer of industrial inks which
mainly generate wash water from cleaning printing roUlers.
(h)    Plastics manufacture. Ten industries produce plastics, e.g., molded plastic and PVC
pipes; effluent volume is low since much of the water is for cooling and is recycled.
(i)    Other industries. This includes manufacture of optical goods, watches, clocks, glass
products, asbestos products and hume pipes, plus saw mills and manufacture of wood
products. The main effluent is curing water from asbestos and pipe manufacture.



- 31 -                                 Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
7.     The Table below shows differences in industrial effluent generation in seven of the nine
categories of industries noted above. ("Garment processing" and "Other" are excluded since they
generate mainly domestic wastewater and solid waste.)
Industrial Effluent Generation
(in mgA)
BOD    COD       Total         Total        Oils and     Sulfides and   Heavy Metals
Suspended    Dissolved    Greases      Sulfates
Solids       Solids
Textiles       high    high     high          high         some high    some high    some high
574     1270     120           2050         23          200          expected
Metals        low      high     moderate      high         low         low           some high
24      40       3575          10           25          25           expected
Chemicals     low      low      high          high         low         low           NA*
199     562      100           1725         2           25
Food/B3ev      high    high     high          moderate     moderate    low           NA
441     665      100           700          10           30
Maintenance    low     high     high          high        low          low           NA
6       1161     520           2075         1000         70
Printing       high    high     low           moderate    low          low           high expected
300     672      75            210          15           25          NA
Plastics/Other   low   low      low           high         low          high         NA
15     80        40            1500        4            600
* Not Available
8.     Water Consumption and Effluent Generation. Process wastewater is generated by 100 odd
industries in the area. About 25% of the industrial establishments account for over 90% of the process
wastewater generation. The textile manufacturing and processing sector, with less than 10% of the
factories, is important given that it generates 50% of the wastewater which is heavily polluted and,
when dyeing fabrics is concerned, may also contain high concentrations of heavy metals. Metal
fabrication, with about 10% of the industries, is more important because its effluent is highly acidic, and
could contain high concentrations of metals. The food and beverage is high in BOD and COD, but
lower than would be expected with oils and grease, probably because there are grease traps in the
plants themselves. Chemicals and pharmaceuticals generated relatively low BOD and COD, probably
because there are inhibitory effects or low-biodegradability in certain effluents, Equipment maintenance
and repair workshops were high in oil and grease content, as anticipated, but weak in other effluent
categories. Printing was characteristically high in BOD and COD and may also contain high
concentrations of metals in dyes. The present wastewater generation in the area is estimated to be
13,400 m3/d, comprising industrial process wastewater (3,270m3/d), industrial domestic wastewater
(2,870m3/d), residential domestic wastewater (7,150 m3/d), and commercial domestic wastewater
(I 10m3/d).
9.     Hazardous Wastes. Hazardous wastes are generated at many of the factories, generally in the
form of liquid or sludge, with corrosive liquids found in the greatest volume. Textile and metal
processing effluents are the main sources. Flammable liquids, poisonous wastes and wastes with high
heavy metal content were also present, but to a lesser extent than corrosives. Many of these wastes are
discharged directly into the surface drainage system and are at least diluted. Air-borne asbestos fibers
from pipe insulation and asbestos-cement pipes are also common.



- 32-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
10.   Proposed System. The wastewater management system proposed for Ratmalana includes (a)
pre-treatment facilities constructed by industries, (b) a collection network to collect industrial and
domestic wastewaters from all industrial establishments as well as domestic wastewater in adjacent
residential areas, (c) a preliminary treatment plant for the removal of large, objectional solids and grit;
and (d) an ocean outfall to discharge the effluent from the treatment plant to the Indian Ocean. The
system is dimensioned on the basis of the following parameters:
average daily flow         21,740 m3/d
maximum daily flow         28,910 m3/d
peak wet weather flow      45,840 m3/d
11.   The collection network would consist of over 40 km of gravity sewer, linked together by six
pumping stations with corresponding force mains. The proposed preliminary treatment wouldinclude
influent pumping, screening, grit removal and effluent pumping. The proposed ocean outfall consists
of a land section (1,100 m) and a marine section (2,000 m). The end of the outfall would be equipped
with a diffuser section, at an average depth of about 14 m below mean sea level.
Ekala/Ja-Ela
12.   Study Area. The study area covers Ja-Ela AGA Division (which includes the subdivision of
Ekala) and is located about 15 km north of Colombo with an estimated population of 156,400. The Ja-
Ela Pradeshiya Sabha, Board of Investment (BOI) and Industrial Development Board (IDB) share
administrative jurisdiction over industrialization in the area. The main industrial concentration lies in
the Ekala area and includes the Ekala Industrial Estate (EIE), while other industrial areas, including
some major facilities in the southem part of Ja-Ela AGA Division, are inter-spaced with residential and
agricultural areas. Given its strategic location and availability of land, the area is being actively
promoted for industrial expansion.
13.   Piped water supply is available within the EE, although some factories depend on private
wells. Sanitary sewerage is serving only EIE at present. Outside the EIE, there is no piped water
supply or sewerage system; domestic sewage is discharged via septic tanks and soakage pits, while
industrial wastewaters are discharged into open roadside drains.
14.   Inventory of Industries. The study area contains 143 industries (including eight which are
planned), employing a work force of over 21,700 persons. The industries have been classified into 10
broad categories based on their waste generation:
*food                      *textile & leather   *chemical
*mineral products          *metal               * machinery & equipment
*timber                    *paper               *research
*agriculture & aquaculture
The dominant industries are textiles and garments, chemicals (battery, paints, silicone and resins),
asbestos, rubber, food, and dyes. Textile and chemical industries produce a wide range of products as
well as types of waste generation. Agriculture and aquaculture include breeding of aquarium fish and
mushroom cultivation. Most of the industris are small to medium in terms of manpower and water
consumption. Eighty-nine industries (66%) employ less than 100 persons, while 38 industries employ



- 33 --
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
a workforce of 101-500. Only two industries employ more than 1,000 people. Out of the total 135
established industries, 96 are located in the Ekala area, including 39 in the ELE.
15.   Water Consumption and Effluent Generation. The total present water consumption of the
industries in the study area is estimated to be 3,705m3/d. Eighty industries use water in their
production, out of which 66 generate industrial effluent totalling about 1,412 m3/d. Thirteen industries
have effluent treatment plants of some kind at present; the volume treated averages about 280 m3/d, or
20% of the total effluent generation. However, it is doubtful whether any of these plants would meet
the National Environrne-it Act standards without upgrading.
16.   Hazardous Waste Generation and Disposal. Although numerous incidents of improper
disposal of toxic waste were noted within the study area, the hazardous waste inventory estimates the
total amount of harmful and toxic wastes generated to be relatively low at 3,200 tons/year, of which
1,700 tons/year would be biological sludge from the proposed treatment plant. One fourth of the 143
firms within the study area are involved in hazardous waste production of any significance.
17.   Proposed Sytem. The propsed system is for collection and treatment of pre-treated industrial
effluent as well as domestic wastewater generated by 68 industries located in the Ekala area, including
39 in the ELE. The existing sewerage network in the ELE covers all 39 industrial establishments and
has adequate capacity to carry industrial effluent flows; thus, it would form a part of the planned joint
collection system. The collection network is dimensioned for a total flow of 5,500 m3/d, which
corresponds with the proposed capacity of the treatment plant plus 50% reserve for capacity
expansion.
18.   The joint treatment plant is proposed to be dimensioned in the initial phase for the following
key parameters estimated to be reached in the year 2003:
flow                             3,500 m3/d (360 m3/h)
biological oxygen demand (BOD5)  1,620kg/d
chemical oxygen demand (COD)    3,300 kg/d
total suspended soldis (TSS)     610kg/d
Project Support
19.   The proposed project would finance construction of wastewater collection systems described
above. GOSL is to seek private financing of wastewater treatment plants. Technical assistance is
provided under the project to assist in the solicitation and evaluation of BOO/BOT proposals.



- 34 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
BEIRA LAKE RESTORATION
1.    Background. Beira Lake, a distinct landmark in the center of Colombo and once an economic
and aesthetic asset, is now a polluted waterbody. The lake has a surface area of 65 ha. and a mean
depth of 2 meters, and is situated in a catchment of approximately 448 ha. The lake comprises of four
main basins: the East Lake, the Galle Face Lake, the West Lake and the Southwest Lake. The East
Lake is the largest and deepest (43 ha., maximum depth of 5.6m). Its U-shaped configuration gives the
lake an exceptionally long shoreline relative to its size, increasing its susceptibility to runoff from its
overall catchment area and from inappropriate use of the shoreline. Shoreline uses include industry,
warehousing, shipping, marine repair facilities, government offices, hotels, public open space,
recreational areas, and religious centers. The lake also contains an island temple. Lake water uses
include transport, fishing, and recreation, as well as bathing and washing for shanty dwellers.
Residential, industrial and institutional land uses typify the lake's catchment area, which has been almost
entirely urbanized.
2.    Beira Lake's water quality is poor and emits unpleasant odors. The accumulation of pollution
over the years has made the lake highly eutrophic. A comprehensive water quality study done in 1985
showed high concentrations of organic materials and other nutrients; high turbidity and algal growth;
wide fluctuations of dissolved oxygen; and high counts of faecal coliform bacteria from domestic
sewage. These results were confirmed in a 1993 study.
3.    Pollution sources are varied, consisting principally of stormwater runoff containing illegal
discharges of domestic sewage and industrial wastewater, and sewage and solid waste from shanty
settlements. Large portions of the shoreline have been abused for indiscriminate waste disposal.
Nearly 500 low-income housing units with a population of about 2,400 are located along the shore.
Some of these families have extended their properties by landfilling, without adequate precautions to
prevent soil erosion and other runoff. Over one thousand stormwater outfalls open into the lake,
contributing all forms of urban waste. Particularly noteworthy are wastewaters from laundries,
garages, hotels, arrny facilities and hospitals. Wastewater from the Colombo General Hospital has
been estimated to be 100 times more significant than any of the outfalls since hospital waste tends to be
very high in pathogens, BOD and nutrient values. Raw sewage from overflows in the sewerage
network and from unauthorized connections of sewers and septic tanks to stormwater drains, further
contaminates the lake. Most industries in the catchment area are connected to the municipal sewerage
network, and those that are not connected appear not to generate significant effluents, relative to the
myriad of other sources.
4.    Restoration Strategy. To reverse the effects of environmental degradation, restoration of the
Beira Lake has been accorded high priority by GOSL. Various studies regarding the water quality of
the lake, sources of pollution and options for mitigation have been carried in recent years. Under the
MEIP, IDA and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) financed a comprehensive
study with the objective of formulating a series of practical interventions. The study recommended a
10-year, two-phase restoration strategy to achieve the following goals:



- 35 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
improve the sanitary condition of the lake in order to reduce the risk of health hazards to
those persons carrying out activities involving limited water contact;
- remedy the problem of periodic bad smells;
- provide water conditions capable of supporting living healthu aquatic communities; and
- improve the aesthetic aspects of the lake and its shoreline.
Phase I would fccus on reducing pollutant loadings, mainly sewage, from the lake catchment area and
on creation of monitoring and enforcement programs; Phase II would aim at accelerating the lake's
restoration using three in-lake restoration techniques: dredging the lake's sediments; filtration of algae,
and stocking of algae-eating fish.
5.    The reduction of pollutant loadings arriving from the lake's catchment area is the first and
critical step to achieve successful and sustainable restoration. Specific interventions to be implemented
under pha',e I include:
(a)   reduction of pollutant loadings through:
(i)   replacement of unauthorized wastewater connections to storm drains with
proper connections to the existing sewerage system;
(ii)    connection of septic tanks in shanty areas to the sewerage system;
(iii)   reduction of industrial effluent loadings;
(iv)    reduction of the frequency of sewerage system overflow;
(v)    improvement of solid waste management; and
(vi)    cleaning the shoreline.
(b)    monitoring program and enforcement including:
(i)    monitoring of water quality of stormnwater outfalls, lake water quality and
aquatic organisms; and
(ii)    enforcement of regulations governing wastewater and solid waste around the
lake's shoreline and catchment.
6.    Environmental Ouality Objectives. The environmental quality objectives proposed for the
Beira Lake restoration are summnarized in the table below:



- 36 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
Proposed Enviromental Quality Objectivesa
Short term                        Long term
(< 5 years)                     (5 - 10 years)
Sanitary Environmental
Quality Objecfives
Faecal colifomms                 50% reduction in storm sewer      100% reduction in storm sewer
network                           networkb
50% reduction in the lake         100% reduction in the lakeb
BOD                              70% reduction in storm sewer      85% reduction in storm  sewer
network                           network 6 mg/L in the lake
Enviromental Quality Objectives
for the preservation
of fish and aquatic life
Ammonia                                                            0.2 mg/L
Dissolved Oxygen                 --                                Concentrations should not fall
below 4 mg/L (daily minimum)
Aesthetic Environmental
Quality Objectives
Chlogophyll-a                    0.10 mgtL                         0.08 mg/L
Total Phosphorus (as 'P")        0.750 mglL                        0.15 mg/L
Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (as "NJ  -                                 6.1 mgtL
Transparency                     50 cm                             80 cm
Suspended solids                 45 mgtL                           25 mg/L
a The proposed water quality objectives are yearly average concertrations (with the excepbon of dissolved oxigen).
Because of the presence of eAremely high faecal colforrns concentrations, the faecal coliforms obectives should aim towards a 1 00% reducto,
although in practice, there wil still be a residual presence of f,ecal coMforms.
7.     Component Description. The project would provide financing for the following interventions:
(a)    Interception of Illegal Connections. This sub-component aims at intercepting
unauthorized sewer connections and wastewater outlets now discharging to the storm
water drainage system and connecting them to the existing sewerage system;
(b)    Reduction in Sewerage System Overflows. This subcomponent aims at reducing the
frequency of sewerage overflows through cleaning sewer lines, rehabilitating pumping
stations, and adding a sewer line along the northwest bank of the East Lake, which is at
present unserved by sanitary sewrage system.; and
(c)    MonitoringProgram. To monitor the impact of the above interventions on the water
quality of the lake, a comprehensive monitoring program will be implemented under
the project. The parameters to be monitored, frequencies of sampling, laboratory
analysis required, and implementation arrrangement are given in the attachment to this
annex.



37 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
Attachment
Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control
MONITORING PLAN
1.    Context. Beira lake is a shallow urban water body which has no natural tributaries and for
which the main source of renewal comes from the runoff waters. Given the lake's present
cond;tions, it will take several years after the sources of pollution are controlled to have
observable results in the lake. In order to assess the impact of the phase I interventions, a
monitoring program will be implemented throughout the project duration and continue after the
physical completior of project-supported works.
2.    Objectives. The objectives of the monitoring program are to: (a) quantify the
improvement of water quality in stormwater outfalls discharging into the lake, (b) monitor the
lake water qulaity, and (c) establish a time series of lake's condition to enable assessment of
additional intervention required to accelerate the lake's restoration.
3 .    Scope of Monitoring. The monitoring program would measure the water quality of major
stormwater outfalls open to the lake and the lake itself
4.    Storm Water Discharges
(a)    Sampling Stations. The six major outfalls that drain almost 50% of the lake's
catchment and were monitored during the 1993 survey for the Beira Lake
Restoration Study are selected as sampling stations.
(b)    Sampling Frequency. Water samples will be collected at the above sampling
stations once every three months.
(c)   Parameters/Determinants.
-     flow rate
-     total phosphorus
-     total nitrogen
-     COD
-     BOD5
-     total suspended solids
-     faecal coliforms.
5.    Lake Water Ouality
(a)    Sampling stations. The 9 sampling stations used in the 1993 survey are selected.
(b)    Sampling Freguency. Once every three months.



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page S of 5
(c)   Monitoring Parameters
-     total phosphorus
-     total nitrogen
-     COD
-     BOD
-     total suspended solids
-     faecal coliforms
-     chlorophyll-a
(d)   Annual Monitoring. Following the completion of phase I restoration works, the
water samples will be analyzed once a year against an expanded list of parameters
covering physical, chemical and biological aspects of the lake, similar to the list
used in the 1993 survey.
6.    Implementation. The UDA will contract a private or state monitoring/testing laboratory
to undertake the monitoring program. The analysis should be conducted according to the
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (18th Edition; APHA, AWWA,
WPCF; 1992). Sample collection and preservation will also follow established methods. The
laboratory shall have previous experience in undertaking water quality monitoring programs.
7.   Reporting. The contracted laboratory will submit quarterly reports and an annual report
to the UDA.



- 39 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 21
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Solid Waste Mananement
Background
1.    CiOSL with IDA assistance has conducted a range of studies over the past ten
years in CMA designed to upgrade existing solid waste management. Among these,
included the identification of a new landfill site for disposal of garbage, alternative
disp osal through composting, safe handling of clinical waste and improving collection
service. The site for a landfill to serve 14 VLAs in CMA has been selected at Welisara,
north of Colombo. The compost plant will also be located at the landfill site. The
concep ual design 3f the site provides sufficient capacity for the waste produced in the
CMA for seven years, i.e. 3.5 million m3. The conceptual design of the landfill site
involves the following:
*  diversion of surface water courses;
*  excavation of peat/laterite to create void space;
  construction of a waste reception area;
*  phases basal preparation, construction and operation;
*  restoration as a raised landform.
2.    The site has been approved for development, and an Environmental Assessment
and preliminary geotechnical and other site investigations have been completed. The
contracting arrangements for the design, construction and operation of the site have been
agreed and the contractors will be selected by GOSL.
Objectives
3.    This Terms of Reference supports the implementation of the Solid Waste
Management Component. The scope of work is divided into five activities with the
following objectives:
(a)   to supervise the implementation of the landfill and compost plant at
Welisara, through to commissioning and start of full-scale operations;
(b)   to develop a scheme to distribute the cost-recovery for the operation of the
landfill site and pilot composting plant at Welisara, among the local
authorities sharing the facilities;
(c)   to implement the Master Management Plan for hospital wastes. The
activity should result in practical, effective and safe hospital waste
management procedures being operated in all hospitals in the CMA by
trained staff,



- 40 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 21
(d)   to assist the local authorities in CMA in contracting out solid waste
collection to the private sector;
(e)   to prepare a long-term solid waste management plan for CMA.
Scope of Work
4.    Specific tasks and reporting for scope of work follows:
(a)   Task 1: Supervision of the Design and Construction of the Welisara
Landfill and Composting Plant.
(i)    Specific Tasks: The construction of the landfill comprises two
main phases; the first anticipated to last months beginning in Year
I and the second anticipated to last ... months during year ... The
Consultant will:
a.    assist CMC in the preparation of pre-qualification and bid
documents and in the evaluation of submitted documents.
b.    prepare a program of supervision, monitoring and audit of
the design and construction works up to completion of the
second phase of construction works in Year 4;
C.    supervise and monitor the contractor through each stage of
the design and construction program, including technical
specifications, materials and cost-control;
d.    review and audit the implementation of site works, taking
account of hydrological characteristics, environmental
safeguards and other local conditions;
e.    review and audit the conformity of construction works to
the design and performance specifications;
f     review and audit the implementation of Quality Assurance
procedures, taking account of requirements for on-site
materials processing, imported materials and equipment and
environmental considerations;
g.    monitor and review the effects on the environment,
including water resources, noise, traffic, nuisance, wildlife,
etc., during constructibn and operational phases, taking
account of local socio-economic conditions;



4 _
Annex 4
Page 3 of 21
h.    report on progress of the design and construction to the
Employer/Engineer.
i.    The Consultant may, in addition, be required to monitor
operational performance on behalf of the Employer during
the initial period of landfill operations.
(ii)    Reporting. The results of the Activity will be provided in regular
reports (Consultant to propose a schedule to the
Employer/Engineer). The reports will include:
* compliance of the design and construction with the projected
program;
* costs incurred and projected to completion;
* progress of site works;
* conformity of construction works to the design specifications;
* implementation of Quality Assurance,
3 environmental effects;
* recommendations for contract amendments.
(b)   Task 2: Development of Cost-Sharing Scheme for Waste Disposal
Facilities
(i)    Specific Tasks. The landfill site and pilot composting plant at
Welisara will receive waste made up from a number of the
municipal authorities of the CMA. Meeting the operational costs of
the facility will be shared between the municipal authorities. The
Consultant will:
a.    evaluate different cost-sharing mechanisms for recovering
the costs of operating the Welisara landfill and pilot
composting plant from the local authorities, taking into
consideration the quantities of waste arisings, geographic
location with respect to the Welisara site, costs of transport
and municipal authority finance systems;
b.    determine the value and management system for an
ESCROW account to cover the operational costs of the
Welisara landfill site and pilot composting plant;
c.    assist in the implementation of the cost-sharing scheme.
d.    complete this activity, 3 months before
landfilling/composting of waste begins.



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 21
(ii)    ReportingR.  The results of the Activity will be provided in a
report. The report will provide information on each of the
following:
*  operational costs of the Welisara landfill and pilot composting
plant;
*  economic considerations;
*  profile of each municipal authority with respect to the economic
considerations;
*  altemative cost-sharing mechanisms;
*  recommended cost-sharing mechanism;
*  ESCROW account value;
*  ESCROW account management.
(c)    Task 3 : Implementation of the Hospital Waste Management Plan
(i)    Specific Tasks. The Master Management Plan, prepared earlier,
has defined the procedures and requirements for the categorization,
handling, collection, storage and transport of hospital wastes. The
Consultant will:
a.    assist hospitals in the identification of suitable equipment for
waste packaging, storage and transport, taking into account
local availability and maintenance facilities, climate and
socio-economic conditions;
b.    assist hospitals in identifying suitable locations for waste
storage, taking into account other hospital operations,
climate and socioeconomic conditions;
c.    assist hospitals in identifying any enabling works required to
implement the Master Management Plan;
d.    assist hospitals in contracting safe transport of hospital
wastes to disposal at the Welisara landfill site, taking into
account local availability of transport vehicles and the
landfill operations proposed to safely dispose of clinical
waste;
e.    provide training for hospital staff sufficient to ensure the
safe implementation of the Master Management Plan at all
levels, taking into account local culture,
f.    monitor implementation and the level of the safety provided
by the Master Management Plan.



-43 -
Annex 4
Page S of 21
(ii)    Reporting. The results of the Activity will be provided in a report.
The report will provide information on each of the following:
*  implementation of the Master Management Plan in each
hospital,
*  local equipment specifications, availability and sources;
*  arrangements for hospital waste transport at each hospital;
*  training carried out at each hospital;
*  results of monitoring of implementation.
(d)    Task 4: Implementation of Contracting Out of Solid Waste Collection
(i)    Specific Tasks. The collection of solid waste is proposed to be
contracted out to encourage private sector participation, the
Consultant will:
a.    assist GOSL in identifying local authorities in CMA for
contracting out services;
b.    study the feasibility of establishing community co-operatives
in poor areas; where viable, assist CMC and ULAs in their
establishment and operation;
c.    assist the identified local authorities to establish contracts
for waste collection, including specification of contracts,
tendering process and tender selection, taking into account
local availability of transport vehicles and services;
d.    review the results of the contracting out of solid waste
collection in the local authorities;
e.    prepare plans for extending the contracting out of solid
waste collection to all local authorities in CMA, and assist
in the preparation of contracting documents.
(ii)    Reporting. The results of the Activity will be provided in two
reports. The first report will provide information on each of the
following:
* list of selected local authorities;
* types of pilot contracts established for solid waste collection;
* review of the pilot contracts, tendering process and tender
selection;



-- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 21
* recommendations for application of contracting out to the other
local authorities;
* recommendations on community co-operatives.
The second report will provide information on each of the
following:
*  types of contracts established for solid waste collection;
*  review of the contracts, tendering process and tender selection;
*  considerations of next tendering exercise on completion of the
existing contracts;
*  performance review of community co-operatives.
(e)   Task 5: Preparation of Long-term Solid Waste Management Plan
(i)    Specific Tasks. In order to meet the long-term needs for solid
waste disposal in Colombo, an integrated waste management
strategy is required to cater for the fifteen years following
completion of the Welisara landfill site. The strategy will need to
consider the experience gained from operation of the Welisara
landfill site and pilot composting plant, together with increases in
waste arisings, advances in the local economy, development and
application of waste disposal technologies and socio-economics.
The Consultant will:
a.    review the experience gained from the implementation of
the current waste management strategy, including the
institutional arrangements, development of the Welisara
landfill site and pilot composting plant, contracting
arrangements for solid waste collection and disposal and the
management of hospital wastes;
b.    prepare revisions to the model contract documentation for
solid waste collection and disposal, as required;
c.    prepare estimates of waste generation and composition in
each municipal authority of the CMA, taking into account
size, population, socio-economics and economic growth;
d.    review options available for treating and disposing of waste
and their potential application under local conditions, and
propose appropriate provision for waste disposal to serve
the CMA for fifteen years;



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 21
e.    evaluate the cost-benefits of road and rail transfer systems
to improve waste transport;
f     carry out a site selection exercise to identify appropriate
sites for any new waste management facilities which are
recommended, on the basis of technical and environmental
criteria;
g.    prepare conceptual designs for any new waste management
facilities which are required;
h.    undertake scoping studies of the sites identified for any new
waste management facilities which are required, and provide
specifications for site investigations, Environmental Impact
Assessments and other relevant studies.
1.    prepare Terms of Reference for next stage of works.
(ii)    Reporting.   The results of the Activity will be provided in a
series of reports (to be determined by the Consultant), which will
provide the following:
* review of the existing solid waste management infrastructure;
* revised model contract documentation for solid waste
collection/disposal;
* estimates of waste generation and composition;
* review of options available for waste treatment/disposal;
* evaluation of cost-benefits of road and rail transfer systems;
* site selection for new waste management facilities;
* conceptual designs for new waste management facilities;
* scoping studies of the sites identified for new waste
management facilities;
* specifications for site investigations, Environmental Impact
Assessments and other relevant studies.
5.    Number of Reports. The Consultant will be required to submit five copies of a
draft of each activity report to the Government of Sri Lanka and the World Bank.
Subsequently, twenty copies of each agreed final report will be required.
6.    Oualification of the Consultant Team. The Consultant Team will require a
combination of international and local specialists. They should have adequate experience
in engineering and operating aspects of landfill and compost plants in similar situations,
municipal finance, concession agreement administration, economic analysis of waste
facilities, engineering project management, environmental assessment, environmental
audit, hospital waste management, training and other specialized services



- 46 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 21
7.    GOSL will make available the following reports: Environmental Assessment,
conceptual engineering design for the landfill and compost plant, current management
arrangements and hospital waste management.
B. Design and Construction Supervision of Sewerage Works at
(1) Ja Ela and Ratmalana Industrial Areas and
(2) Beira Lake Catchment
Background
1.    These Terms of Reference (ToR) are defined for the appointment of a Firm to provide
Consultants' Services for the design and construction supervision of the two sewerage works in
the two areas.
Objectives
2.    The objectives of the proposed assignment:
(a)   to prepare detailed engineering design and drawings for the two sewerage
works;
(b)   to assist GOSL in the evaluation of pre-qualification and selection of
contractor;
(c)   to assist GOSL in supervising the construction of the two sewerage works;
Scope of Work
3.    General. The scope of work defined here is being procured as two services by GOSL.
The work content is identical except for variations to accommodate flow characteristics. The
tasks are to be executed in four phases. The Consultant shall transfer skills to local staff.
(a)    Phase 1 The Consultant shall:
(i)   review and propose modifications and additions, if any, to the
preliminary engineering designs and documentation prepared in
feasibility reports.
(ii)   carry out detailed site investigations (including soil investigations for
pipe support systems, bedding) and surveys (surface and sub-surface);



47 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 21
(iii)    Beira Lake Catchment locate all direct discharges and sanitary sewer
overflows to the stormwater drainage system and stormwater drain
connections to the sanitary sewer system and design the diversion of
these to the respective sewer systems, prepare final designs of the
proposed improved sewerage system for the Beira lake catchment,
including rehabilitation of standposts; special designs should be carried
out for (a) road and railway crossings (b) connections to the existing
sewer system with consideration for limiting interruptions to the system
and provision for temporary diversions; and (c) sewer laying by
tunnelling under roads and areas where there is insufficient space for
trench excavation.
(iv,    IsdustrialAreas. Calculate total estimated flows in the networks
based on approved design criteria and prepare detailed designs of the
proposed Sub-project 1 works; special designs should be carried out
for a) road and railway crossings with consideration for limiting
interruptions to road and railway transport; b) connections to the new
central treatment plants, and c) sewer laying by tunnelling under roads
and areas where there is insufficient space for trench excavation;
(v)    identify the most suitable construction techniques to be used, taking
into consideration:
a.    subsurface soil types;
b.     groundwater levels,
c.     underground utilities;
d.     minimum disruption to traffic;
e.     prevention of damage to newly laid sewers during construction
(ex. during removal of sheet piles);
f      sequence of implementation of the Contract;
(vi)    carry out detailed site investigations for house and industrial sewer
connections and propose most suitable construction techniques
(tunnelling, sheet piling etc.) for making the connections, taking into
consideration the following factors, among others:
a.     congested areas with limited free land available within
individual premises;
b.     avoiding the necessity to demolish permnanent structures;
c.     avoiding damage to adjacent buildings;
d.     presence of underground utilities;
(vii)    prepare drawings, Bills of Quantities (including items for reinstatement
of roads and damaged structures and utilities), Scope of Works,
Specifications, Implementation programme and cost estimates for the



- 4o -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 21
designed works; Bills of Quantities should be prepared, wherever
necessary, for altemative methods of construction (ex. tunnelling and
other alternatives);
(b)    Phase II.  In this phase the Consultant shall assist the client in the evaluation
of prequalification applications and tenders for the contract for the
implementation of project works
(c)    Phase Il. Assist the Client/Implementing Agency (in the capacity of
"Engineer's Representative") for the implementation of Sub-project 1 works,
in the supervision of the Contract.
(d)    Phase IV.
(i)    Contract Maintenance Period: Arrange and observe that the
Contractors concemed carry out their contractual obligations during
the first 3 months of the Contract maintenance period; and
(ii)    assist the Client/Implementing Agency through three (3) months of
operation, inclusive of preparation and implementation of Operation &
Maintenance and monitoring procedures for the system and train the
staff involved.
4.     Reporting  The list of reports to be submitted will include inception report, progress
reports, preliminary design, final design, prequalification and tender documents, evaluation
reports, commissioning and testing of plant and equipment, project completion report.
C. Securing Private Sector Participation
for Construction and Oneration of Two Wastewater Treatment Plants
in JaEla and Ratmalana Industrial Areas
Background
I .    GOSL has completed feasibility studies' for establishing wastewater treatment
plants in JaEla and Ratmalana industrial areas. The reports contain description of the
physical components for collection, treatment and disposal. The collection system for the
two areas will be financed by IDA under CEIP and GOSL will seek private sector
(I) Fcasibility Stud) for the Establishmcnt of a Joint Wastexvatcr Trcatment Plant for Industrial
Estatc/Industries in Ekala and JaEla, Final Report. Soil and Water Ltd., April 1994 for Government
of Sri Lankla/World Bank/MEIP and (2) Feasibility Study for the Establishment of a Joint Wastewater
Trcatmcnt Plant for Industrial Estate/Industries Ratmalana and Moratuwa, Final Report, Associated
Consulting Engineers, Scptember 1994 for Govcnmcnt of Sri Lankla/World Bank/CIDA/MEIP.



- /L9 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 21
par.icipation for the construction and operation of the two plants. This Terms of
Reference is to assist GOSL secure private sector sponsors.
2.    Implementing Agency. National Water Supply and Drainage Board of the
Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public Utilities will be the implementing agency on
behalf of GOSL.
Obje tives
3.    . The objectives are:
Task 1: to prepare Environmental Assessment reports for the two sites acceptable
to GOSL and IDA; and
Task 2: to assist in the BOOIBOT solicitation process;
Scope of Work
4.    The scope of work for the objectives are:
(a)    Task 1: Preparation of Environmental Assessment Report. The
Consultants who prepared the two feasibility studies have undertaken
Initial Environmental Examination of the two plants and potential sites of
location. The Consultant should build on these studies and prepare EA
reports on the following format:
(i)    Executive Summary;
(ii)    Project Description. Concise description of project features -
treatment technology/engineering design, mode of disposal of
treated wastewater and sludge disposal;
(iii)    Baseline Data. Building on the information contained in the two
feasibility reports, the consultant should expand on the baseline data
as required. Information on receiving water courses should be
collected. If ocean disposal is being considered, then data on
oceanographic conditions should be collected;
(iv)    Environmental Impacts. Identification and assessment of the
positive and negative impacts likely to result from the proposed
project. Mitigation measures, and any residual negative impacts
that cannot be mitigated should be identified;
(v)    Analysis of Alternatives. The Feasibility studies have analyzed
alternative methods of treating wastewater in the two areas. Based



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 12 of 21
on this, cost-effective solutions have been determined. The
Consultant should summarize in the EA report and examine the
alternative ways of final disposal and sludge disposal;
(vi)    Mitigation Plan. Based on the above, the Consultant should
prepare a detailed mitigation plan and monitoring plan and identify
the implementation resources;
(vii)    The Consultant should present in annexes of the report the list of
EA preparers, references, and records of consultation meetings.
(b)   Task 2: Solicitation and Evaluation of BOO/BOT Proposals
(i)    The Consultant shall assist the NWSDB in conducting the pre-
qualification process, including preparing documents, evaluating
accepted documents and announcing a shortlist.
(ii)    The Consultant shall prepare the Request for Proposal (RFP)
document to solicit bids from prequalified BOO/BOT operators for
the two treatment plants. The RFP shall contain the following
sections, but not limited to:
*     Section 1: Information for applicants;
*     Section 2: Instructions to applicants;
*     Section 3: Security package and financial structure;
*     Section 4: Applicant's submission documentation;
*     Section 5: Project performance specifications; and
drawings.
A description of each section follows.
a.    Section 1. This section should include the following
information:
i.    policy framework for pollution control and
enforcement in the country;
ii.   technical description of the project;
iii.    site location;
iv.    environmental mitigation plan prepared
under Task 1; and
v.    project implementation schedule.
b.    Section 2. The instructions to applicants section should give
instructions and outline the NWSDB's procedures and
requirements for receipt and opening of proposals,



- 51 -
Amu 4
Pap 13 of 21
evaluation, clarifications, negotiations, and how the project
agreements will be completed and awarded. This section
should also outline security requirements and, most
importantly, convey to developers the requirements and
procedures that will be followed for evaluation and award
of the project. This section should address:
* description of the selection process;
* cost of preparation;
* site visit;
* clarifications and amendments;
* language, structure, and content;
* tariff and supporting cost data;
* currencies of tariff, proposal prices, and payments;
* proposal validity and security;
* variations in proposal conditions;
- pre-bid meeting;
- format, signing, sealing, and marking;
? deadline and late proposals;
- modification and withdrawal;
3 proposal opening;
* confidentiality;
3 determination of responsiveness;
* correction of errors;
3 evaluation and award cycle and criteria;
- clarifications and negotiations;
* performance security requirements; and
* applicant's responsibilities.
c.    Section 3 . The security package and financial structure
section shall outline an applicant's responsibilities to
NWSDB regarding the following and the consultant should
develop standard forms for:
*     implementation agreement;
*     tariff agreement;
*     insurance requirements;
*     O&M agreement; and
*     project financing.
d.    Section 4. To facilitate uniformity in submission
documents, the consultant shall prepare under mentioned
standard forms and letters:



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 14 of 21
*     letter of conveyance;
*     proposal security and performance guarantee;
*     tariff structure and supporting documentation;
*     legal form of developer; and
*     exceptions to or deviations from RFD.
e.    Section 5. The Consultant shall outline the technical
specifications and performance criteria, which will need to
be completed by the applicant. This information will be
used for subsequent technical ranking and evaluation. It
would be desirable if the consultant prepares an appendix of
technical data and related information.
(iii)    Evaluation Criteria. The Consultant shall clearly specify the criteria
that will be used to evaluate the alternate bids.
(iv)    Evaluation. The Consultant will assist NWSDB to evaluate bids
submitted by prequalified applicants.
(c)   Task 3: Negotiations and Verification of Financial Closure
(i)    The Consultant shall assist NWSDB in concluding negotiations
with the selected applicant;
(ii)    The Consultant will assist NWSDB in verification of financial
closure.
5.    Reports and Time Frame. The following reports shall be submitted:
(a)   Task 1: Reports shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements
of GOSL EIA Regulations. This will include seeking public opinion on the
contents of the report, which will be facilitated by GOSL. Normally 20-25
copies will be required. Following public consultation and GOSL review,
the Consultant will revise and submit final version six months after the
commencement of the assignment; and
(b)   Task 2:
(i)    The Consultant will submit draft pre-qualification documents and,
following GOSL comments, will prepare the final version within
two months of commencement of assignment;
(ii)    The Consultant will prepare a draft RFP, and following review by
GOSL and NWSDB, will prepare the final version within two
months of submission of EA report;



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 15 of 21
(iii)    The Consultant will assist NWSDB to prepare relevant
documentation during solicitation and evaluation; and
(iv)    The Consultant will submit a final report at the conclusion of the
assignment.
6.    Qualifications of Consultants The Consultant should have adequate experience in
both Environmental Assessment and BOO/BOT solicitation processing. Skills required
are diverse and Consultant should propose a multi-disciplinary team which can perform
the different tasks.
D. Follow-UD Study On
In-Lake Restoration Activities of Beira Lake
Background
1 .    The Beira Lake Restoration Plan2 outlines a two-phase approach to improve lake water
quality. Phase 1, interception of sewage flows to the lake, is financed under CEIP. In phase 2,
in-lake restoration activities need to be implemented to achieve the environmental quality
objectives defined in the plan. This Terms of Reference is for the appointment of Consultants
to assist UDA in undertaking the follow-up studies. This study will be executed following the
completion of catchment sewerage works.
Objectives
2.    The objectives are to prepare detailed engineering designs, environmental assessment,
cost estimates and implementation plan for in-lake restoration activities: dredging, removal of
algae, restocking of fish and stabilisation of banks.
Scope of Work
3.    The Scope of Work includes:
(a) Dredging.
(i)    The Consultant shall update the bathymetric survey of the lake bed to
determine:
a.    amount of dredging needed;
2   Bcira Lake Restoration Study (1994) - prepared by ROCHE Intemational, Canada for GOSL/World
Bank/C IDA/MEIP



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 16 of 21
b.    average depth to which the lake should be dredged;
c.    volumes of material to be removed;
d.    time frame for the dredging works; and
e.    chemical analysis.
(ii)    The Consultant shall evaluate altemative disposal options of dredged
material, and prepare an EA report, acceptable to GOSL and IDA;
The mitigation and management plan proposed in the EA report should
be included in costing and final implementation plan
(iii)    The Consultant shall identify any impediments to dredging activities
and formulate suitable remedial measures. These would include,
among others, any banks that have to be stabilised prior to dredging as
well as the identification and location of sunken barges in the East Lake
with suitable steps outlined for their removal and environmentally
acceptable disposal;
(iv)    The Consultant shall develop separate work programs of dredging for
the East Lake, the Galle Face and West Lake and the South-East Lake
segments of the Beira Lake taking into account, and exploiting to best
advantage, the rainy periods;
(v)    The Consultant shall assess and recommend the best choice between
hydraulic and mechanical dredging based on what would be most
appropriate and economical under the existing conditions;
(vi)    The Consultant assess and outline a program for maintenance of the
lake bed including frequency of repeat dredging;
(vii)    The Consultant shall prepare the detailed engineering design (works
and drawings) and cost estimate,
(viii)    From the aforementioned, the Consultant shall formulate a
comprehensive implementation plan for dredging of the lake.
(b) Stabilization of Banks
(i)    The Consultant shall carry out a comprehensive study of the
approximately 8000 linear meters of bank identified in the Beira Lake
Restoration Study (1993) that need to be stabilised,
(ii)    The Consultant shall prepare detailed engineering designs and cost
estimates for the various types of embankment stabilisation as
recommended in, but not necessarily confined to, the Beira Lake
Restoration Study (1993, Vol 2). Due consideration should be given



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 17 of 21
to the most cost effective and economical methodologies, such as
gabions, where possible; and
(iii)    From the aforementioned, the Consultant shall formulate a
comprehensive implementation plan for stabilization of banks.
(c) Removal of Algae
(i)    The Consultant shall consider mechanical and other methods of algae
removal with stress laid on the identification of the most innovative,
effective, economical and ecologically friendly methods for
implementation;
(ii)    The methods considered need not necessarily be confined to that
outlined in the Beira Lake Restoration Study (1993, Vol. 2), namely
the filtration of algae, but may consider other economical, eco-fiiendly
methodologies that have had proven results in similar situations
elsewhere;
(iii)    After due consideration of the methodologies to be used, the
Consultant shall pilot test the selected option at laboratory scale. The
consultant shall discuss the findings of the investigations with Srilankan
researchers and scientific community. Following which, the Consultant
shall propose the detailed engineering approach (design and drawings)
and prepare cost estimate; and
(iv)    From the aforementioned, the Consultant shall formulate a
comprehensive implementation plan for removal of algae;
(d) Stocking of Fish
(i)    The Consultant shall identify suitable fish species which could be
commercially exploitable by subsistence fishermen of the area. Special
attention will be paid to species that consume mosquito larvae and
algae;
(ii)    The consultant shall identify local stocking sources of the fish species,
costs of fingerlings and stocking densities necessary to initiate a
sustainable population of fish in the Lake. This will be done in close
co-operation with relevant state agencies such as the Ministry of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development and its line agencies
such as NARA;



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 18 of 21
(iii)    The Consultant shall prepare estimates of costs and frequency of
restocking lake to maintain an adequate fish population if it is not
intrinsically sustainable; and
(iv)    From the aforementioned, the Consultant shall formulate a
comprehensive implementation plan for stocking of fish and seek
opinion of the public.
4.    Time frame.  Time frame envisaged for the study (given that most background data
is already available) is 12 months.
5.    Implementing Arrangements.  UDA will implement the study and hire the services of
experiences international and local consultants.
6.    Responsibility & Reporting - The Consultant shall submit inception, interim, draft final
and final reports as contained in the contract accompanying this ToR.
7.    Qualifications of the Consultant Team. The team should have previous experience in
lake restoration activities especially in the three options outlined above. The consultants should
have worked in similar geographical conditions. The team should at the least consist of aquatic
biologists, chemists, environmental specialists, engineers with dredging experience, project
engineering management and environmental assessment specialists.
E. Design and Implementation Supervision of
Inteerated Geoeraphic Information System (GIS)
Background
I .    The Urban Development Authority (Ministry of Housing, Construction, and Public
Utilities) is planning to undertake the development a fully integrated Geographic
Information System (GIS) to support the execution of critical operational functions within
a number of urban management and utilities operations authorities. The UDA envisions a
multi-function, computer based, information system capable of supporting operational
tasks related to the modemization of cadastral and other land records, the management of
infrastructure assets and facilities within major utilities, the execution of zoning and other
major urban planning tasks, the collection and management of information related to land
use and other land characteristics.
2.    The GIS project will build significant capacity within UDA for map generation,
relational database management, digital cartography, GIS analysis, and digital image
processing of remotely sensed data (primarily satellite imagery). The successful
implementation of the GIS will involve coordination among major data Providers and User



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 19 of 21
Groups (PUG) and the possible re-design of current approaches to information collection,
management and dissemination.
Objectives
3.    The objective of the consultancy is twofold. First to assist the UDA in the
development and evaluation of a full implementation plan for the GIS. Second, to assist
UDA in the implementation and actual development of the operational system.
Scope of work
4.    The scope of work for this consultancy will encompass five major tasks conducted
in two main phases. Phase One will encompass (1) the completion of a functional
requirement analysis for the UDA and the participating PUGs and (2) the execution of a
feasibility analysis of introducing automated GIS including an assessment of costs and
expected benefits. Based on the findings of the feasibility report, Phase Two of the
consultancy will involve (3) the development of a full scale implementation plan;(4) the
coordination and supervision of system development, installation, prototype development,
and full-scale implementation; and (5) supervision of the overall review of system
performance and feedback to system administrators.
Detailed Task Description.
Phase One
5.    Task 1: Preparation of functional requirements analysis. The principal objective
of the functional requirements analysis is to define the nature and scope of work relying on
map and geographic information within and between the core Providers and User Group
(PUG) organizations. Through a process which may involve structured interviews,
workshops, and questionnaires the consultant shall carry out:
(a)    An identification of all organizational units within UJDA and PUG that may
benefit from the GIS;
(b)   An assessment of the types, volume and flow of geo-referenced
information currently utilized within the UDA and the PUG;
(c)    An inventory and assessment of the availability, accessibility and
authenticity of map information and its related attribute data available in all
PUG member organizations. The inventory of available datasets should
include description of all graphical as well as attribute data;
(d)   An inventory and assessment of the available digital databases, software,
and hardware sources in each of the core organizations;
(e)    An inventory and assessment of existing staff skills within UDA and the
PUG in the field of GIS, digital mapping, and digital image processing;
(f)   Identification of major gaps in types and volume of information with in the
UDA and associated PUG.



- 53
Annex 4
Page 20 of 21
6.    Task 2: Feasibility evaluation. Upon completion of the functional requirements
analysis the consultant shall evaluate and recommend a preferred system development
scenario. The feasibility analysis should discuss the pros and cons of different
implementation paths including a without project scenario; a minimal configuration
scenario; and a highly extensive configuration scenario. The feasibility report should
describe the strengths and weaknesses of highly centralized versus highly distributed data
processing solutions and should make recommendations regarding the feasible level of
decentralization.
7.    The consultant should develop a detailed rationale for the preferred system
including a discussion of comparative costs and benefits of the preferred solution, the
technical merits of the preferred solution, the level of overall management commitment to
the solution and its credibility within the PUG. The Consultant should conduct workshops
with PMG membeers to review the findings of Phase 1. The overall findings of the phase
one activities should be presented in the form of a written report presented to the UDA
under terms to be specified in the final contract.
Phase Two
8.    Task 3. Detailed Implementation Plan. Based on the recommendations of the
functional requirements statement and the feasibility report the consultant shall develop a
detailed implementation plan for the GIS. The implementation plan shall make specific
recommendations regarding the:
(a)   Overall System Design
(i)    Prioritization of applications
(ii)    Hardware
a.    recommend processors and peripherals
b.    assist in design of network topology and hardware solutions
(iii)    Software
a.    Assist in software evaluation and selection
(iv)    Database structure
a.    Database architecture
b.    Data dictionaries
c.    Data standards
(v)    Communications linkages
a.    Information flows within and between PUG
b.    Interaction models between PUGs
c.    Protocols
(b)   Organization and Management of the System
(i)   description of major management responsibility and accountability;
(ii)   formulation of overall management procedures,
(iii)   formulate policies and procedures for user cost recovery;



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 21 of 21
(iv)    Design of Quality control / quality assurance procedures.
(c)   Human resource development / training plan
(i)   Identify training requirements for technical and managerial levels
(ii)    Formulate short, medium and long-term training curricula;
(iii)    Formulate long term staffing plan including recruitment for PUG
(iv)    Formulate policies for use of private sector.
9.    Task 4: System procurement. operations and management. Following the
approval of a detailed implementation plan by the UDA and associated PUG, the
consultant shall assist with the operational implementation of the system. During the
implementation phase the consultant will assist UDA in the procurement of all software /
hardware needs identified in III above. The consultant will:
(a)   review and finalize all tender documents;
(b)   assist UDA to solicit and evaluate vendor bids;
(c)    prepare global requirement specs;
(d)   finalize bid-evaluation criteria;
(e)    assist in the evaluation of bids and awarding of contracts;
(f)   supervise contract implementation.
10.   In addition, the consultant will guide UDA in the development of the overall
"corporate database". This development plan will include identifying appropriate
methods and procedures of data conversion and establishing sound procedures for primary
data collection.
11.   The implementation of the overall system should include an appropriate pilot or
prototype development stage. The consultant will assist UDA in defining a number of
pilot / demonstration projects and will advise on the deign of customized applications
interfaces as needed. Once a successful pilot phase has been completed the consultant will
assist with a full scale implementation of the system
12.   Task 5: System performance review.  Once an operational program is underway
the consultant would assist in the implementation of an overall system evaluation and
performance review exercise. The review and evaluation should be design in a way which
provides meaningful feedback into the system operations and re-design as needed.



- 60 -
Annex S
Page 1 of 16
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF LANDFILL COMPONENT
Background
I .    The Environmental Assessment of the proposed landfill site at Welisara was prepared by a
team of international and local consultants. The report has been reviewed by GOSL and IDA.
The following is a summary of the EA report.
Scope of the EA
2.     The disposal site for solid waste is proposed to be a single landfill site at Galudupita
marsh, Welisara, located approximately 10 km north-east of central Colombo. The landfill is
planned to have sufficient capacity to dispose of the solid waste arisings from the Colombo
Metropolitan Area for 7 years.
Public Consultations
3.     Public consultation was an essential part of the EA preparation process, and is a formal
requirement of both IDA' and the GOSL.2
4.     In response to these requirements, a program of public consultation and disclosure was
implemented by GOSL. During the course of the site selection exercise and the preliminary
environmental review of the selected site, two public meetings were held by the Divisional
Secretariat at Wattala, to which local residents were invited. A record of these meetings is
available in the main EA report. A local public consultation panel will be formed during project
implementation.
Analysis of Alternatives
5.     This section examines the alternatives available for solid waste management in the
Colombo Metropolitan Area. The key conclusions of the evaluation of options are:
World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 - Annex A (October 1991)
2 The national Environment Act was passed in 1981. Part Ivc (Gazette 772/22) came into force on 24 June 1993, and
stipulates the requirement for (I) an EA for prescribed development projects, (ii) the appointment of a Project Approving
Agency, and (iii) a 30-day consulation period following submission of the EA report.



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 16
* the development and extension of materials recovery is not feasible;
* composting is not feasible in the short term but, over the medium-long term, it is a
potentially viable component of a future MSW management system-
* incineration is not feasible;
* landfilling is feasible, and is the most appropriate technique to be applied in Sri Lanka.
The Proposed Option
6.    The technical feasibility of the options for solid waste management in the Colombo
Metropolitan Area are summarized in Table 1. Based on the evaluation described above, the only
feasible option for solid waste management in the Colombo Metropolitan Area is new landfill.
Through progressive screening of 6 different sites, the site at Galudupita marsh, Welisara, was
selected.
Overall Landfill Design Philosophy
7.    The proposed site at Welisara occupies an area of permanently inundated low-lying
marshland that is characterized by low topographic relief, a high groundwater table and periodic
flooding in the rainy season.
8.    Hence, the development of the site, although technically feasible, is likely to be difficult.
The nature and location of the site will necessitate the provision of a suite of engineering
measures in order to:
* operate the landfill facility continuously and successfully;
* incorporate the necessary environmental protection measures to minimize the risk of
pollution and flooding during site engineering, operation and upon completion.



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 16
Table 1: Summary of the Feasibility of the Options for Solid Waste Management in the
Colombo Metropolitan Area (CMA)
Option                    Key Factors                      Feasibility
Materials recovery *  Already well established in CMA
Very little scope for expansion       Not feasible.
Composting          No existing operations in CMA
Suitable waste composition (high organic
content)
Requires development of markets for
compost products                      Feasible in the medium
*  Strategy for phased development        and long term.
established
*  Not suitable for solid waste from the EPZs
and hospitals
Incineration     .  Limited existing operations in EPZs and
one hospital
Unsuitable MSW waste composition (high
organic and low combustible content)
Requires import of technology and       Not feasible.
expertise
Reliable, long term operation proven to be
difficult
Expensive to operate
Landfill            Existing operation at WVellampitiya
Limited technical requirements for
development
F .    easibility independent of waste   Feasible.
composition - all solid wastes can be
handled, with appropriate environmental
measures
Assessment of Environmental Impacts
9.    The EA provides an assessment of the potential positive and negative environmental
impacts resulting from the development of a landfill site at Welisara. On the basis of the
information available on the site described in Section 5 (main report), and the design concept
discussed in Section 4 (main report), the EA focuses upon the following:
(a)   the identification of the characteristics of the site with respect to the key
environmental issues, namely:
(b)   socio-cultural factors and land use



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 16
(c)    hydrogeology and hydrology
(d)    biological factors (flora and fauna)
(e)    air quality
(f)   traffic
(g)    aesthetics (visual impact)
(h)    noise
(i)   the establishment of the sensitivities of the site with respect to the above, and,
hence, the scope for environmental impacts;
(j)    an assessment of the magnitude of potential environmental impacts which may
occur due to the development of the landfill site;
(k)   the features and mitigation measures which will be incorporated into the site design
to minimize potential environmental impacts and ensure that the overall impact of
the landfill is not significant.
(l)   the provision of adequate occupational health and safety measures within the
context of mitigation of the above categories of environmental impact.
Hence, the EA provides an appraisal of the environmental acceptability of the Welisara site for the
development of the landfill.
Socio-Cultural Environment and Land Use
10.   Key Issues. The key socio-cultural issues related to the proposed landfill are the following.
(a)    Resettlement of the population directly displaced by the landfill, due to the
landtake requirements of the landfill site.
(b)    Changes to the socio-economic status of the area, due to the positive effect of
potential employment for local people generated by the development of the landfill
site and following its restoration, and the impact of negative perceptions of the
landfill site in the area. Solid waste disposal in Sri Lanka has a poor reputation,
due to the pollution caused by the existing landfill site in Colombo. It is also
perceived by some as associated with the influx of scavengers and low income
populations, who derive income from sorting through the waste for recyclables or
hope for resettlement opportunities as the site develops. Scavenging may also
provide a source of income to some members of the local population.
(c)    Alterations in the public health status of the area as a result of the elimination of
water-borne vectors in the marshland area versus the potential increase in other
vectors (such as rats, flies, scavenging birds, wild dogs and cats) that may be
attracted by the landfill if not properly managed.



- 64 -
Annex S
Page S of 16
Assessment of Impacts
11.     The development of the landfill will have both positive and negative impacts on the socio-
economic conditions of the local community. These impacts are summarized in Table 2 with
respect to the key issues highlighted above.
Table 2: Summary of Positive and Negative Socio-economic Impacts
Source of Impact |   Positive Impacts    |                                 Negative Impact
a                              :
iLandtake and                   Affected families will receive   .Loss of family home;
Resettlement                  'better infrastructure and
services                            .Disruption and inconvenience
................................................................. ....................................... .............................. ......... .. . ...................................................I.........................
Formal Employment              Resourced from local labour    'Demand for additional local housing
i Opportunities                 market where possible                and services by immigrant workers
...... . .....................................
Opportunities for              Employment for low income            Degrading of social status of area
.Scavengers                     families
Public health risk resulting from
Maximisation of recycling           poor sanitation in squatter
within the waste stream              communities
.                                                                   a..,
R Restoration and Income    Opportunity for economic
Generation                     development and employment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.............................................................. ............................................................................................. 
Prevalence of Pests and    Possible reduction in aquatic    Possible increase in pests and
Disease Vectors                disease vectors due to drainage! disease vectors (e.g. rodents, insects,
:of the marsh                        :birds, dogs and cats)
Hydrology and Hydrogeology
12.     Key Issues. The key hydrogeological and hydrological issues related to the proposed
landfill site are:
(a)     the potential for contamination of water resources (surface water and
groundwater), by discharges, for example fuel spillages and waste construction
materials, during construction of the landfill site or escape of leachate during
operation;



- 65 -
Annex 5
Page 6-of 16
(b)    changes to the flood storage capacity of the catchment of the Kalu Oya (river) and
its tributaries, which may lead to increased flooding either upstream or
downstream of the site;
(c)    changes to the drainage characteristics of the area, and hence the availability of
groundwater for extraction from wells by the local population and industry.
13.   The important aspects of the site with respect to these issues are as follows:
(a)    The local population make use of near-surface groundwater through shallow wells,
as well as abstracting water and fishing in the Kalu Oya and its tributaries. It is
understood that industrial enterprises in the area may also abstract water via wells
for industrial purposes.
(b)    The marsh land present on the site acts, as does most of the land adjacent to the
rivers in this particular catchment, as a flow regulating mechanism, by providing
flood storage capacity and a buffer during periods of high rainfall. However, the
total site area is 124 hectares, which represents only 2% of the total catchment
area.
14.    The protection of groundwater resources in this low lying area, and/or the provision of
alternative piped water supplies suitable for potable and industrial uses, is essential. The design of
the landfill will incorporate a range of environmental protection measures which will address these
issues and minimize the potential impacts.
Biological Factors
15.    Key Issues. The key biological issues related to the proposed landfill site are as follows:
(a)    The landtake requirements for the site, which will result in a maximum of 124
hectares of marshland being lost to the landfilling operations, with the result that
(progressively) drier, more elevated land will be generated as waste is placed,
covered and restored in phases.
(a)    Disturbance to the fauna (though not of significant ecological importance) of
surrounding areas near to the landfill site, due to noise, traffic, etc. associated with
the landfilling operations.
(b)    Disruption to the habitats present on low-lying areas in the vicinity of the site, due
to changes in their drainage characteristics caused by the landfill site altering the
hydrology of the area.



- 66 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 16
(c)    Disruption to habitats resulting from diversion of the stream that currently
traverses the site.
(d)    The scope for improving/generating new habitats of conservation interest, as part
of the landscaping and restoration of the landfill site, during construction,
operation and after the site is completed.
Air Quality
16.   Key Issues. The key air quality issues related to the proposed landfill site are:
(a)    generation of odor, due to the production of gases by the decomposition of waste
during landfill operations and after it has been deposited;
(b)    suspension of dust, due to the landfilling activities, especially vehicle movements
and operations associated with site preparation, excavation and drying of peat,
waste deposit and cover/restoration;
(c)    effects of vehicle emissions, due to the traffic associated with the landfill
operations.
17.   The incorporation of suitable mitigation measures into the landfill design, together with
the stringent site supervision recommended, is considered to minimize the potential impacts on air
quality and ensure that there is no significant loss of amenity.
Traffic
18.   Key Issues. The key traffic issues related to the proposed landfill site are:
(a)    disturbance to the settlements near to Galudupita Road and the access road to the
site, due to disruption of other road users (congestion, delays, etc), disturbance by
engine noise and air pollution from vehicle exhausts.
(b)    disturbance to local fauna (typically common species only) near to the access road
to the site, due to engine noise.
19.   The presence of settlements near to the road indicates that increases in congestion and the
increased risk of accidents, disturbance by noise and the impacts of air pollution are the important
traffic issues. These issues will be especially important in relation to the overall delivery of waste,
the option of delivering the bulk containers of waste from the transfer station at night and/or if



- 67 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 16
traffic movements are required over week-ends. However, these impacts will be minimized by the
following operational considerations at the landfill site.
(a)   scheduling of traffic to avoid the peak periods on the local roads (07:00-09:00,
13:00-14:00 and 17:00-19:00), as well as evenings, night-time and week-ends
wherever possible (bearing in mind that night-time delivery of bulk containers is a
preferred option);
(b)   improvements to Galudupita Road, such as widening, resurfacing, curbing,
construction of pedestrian walkways, etc, which will increase the carrying capacity
of the road and improve road safety, especially with respect to pedestrians and
cyclists;
(c)    bunding, screening and landscaping between the new site access roads off
Galudupita Road and the adjacent settlements, to reduce noise. A minimum
separation of 50 m between the site access road and the nearest settlement is
proposed.
(d)   improvements to the junction of Galudupita Road and the A3 highway, for
example widening the turn, new traffic control measures/signals, signs in three
languages etc., to ease traffic flows and congestion and improve road safety.
Aesthetic Appeal
20.   Key Issues. The key aesthetic issues associated with the proposed landfill site are:
(a)   the visual impact on local settlements, due to the loss of up to 124 hectares of
open marshland and replacement by the operational, and later the restored, landfill
site. These impacts may include the loss of landscape features, changes to the
overall character of the area and development of new features as a result of the
development of the site;
(b)   the visual impact on travelers on the railway on the eastern boundary of the site,
due to similar reasons to those indicated above;
(c)   litter nuisance, due to waste/debris being blown by the wind off the landfill site and
from uncovered vehicles delivering waste, for example tractor trailers. The
potential effects include direct impacts arising from items of waste being dispersed
onto adjacent land-owners properties as well as more general loss of visual
amenity from unsightly accumulations of litter.



- 68 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 16
21.   The development of the landfill site will incorporate a range of measures to screen the
settlements and railway line from the operational areas, preserve the overall appearance of the
area and to minimize litter generation and any associated impacts. The scheme will include a
range of landscaping proposals which will minimize the visual impact during operation and return
the land to a beneficial use upon completion of the landfilling operations. Therefore, although the
development will involve a major change to the outlook of the site and immediately surrounding
area, the overall proposals are not considered likely to cause a significant impact on the aesthetics
of the area.
Noise
22.   Key Issues. The key noise issues related to the proposed landfill site are:
(a)    disturbance to people living in the settlements near to the site, due to noise from
on-site activities, for example earth-moving plant, large volume trucks delivering
construction materials, plant depositing and covering waste, pumps dewatering the
site, etc, as well as traffic entering and leaving the site. This issue is particularly
important if evening, night-time or week-end working is undertaken;
(b)    disturbance to local fauna in the surrounding areas, due to the on-site activities and
traffic.
23.   Due to the aspects of the site described above, noise is likely to be an important issue with
respect to disturbance of the local settlements. However, significant impacts will be prevented by
the incorporation of mitigation measures into the site design and operational procedures,
including:
(a)    provision of a bund and buffer zone between the settlements and the landfill site,
which will separate the working areas of the landfill from the nearest settlement by
at least 50 m, serve to screen the site and act as a noise barrier;
(b)   location of plant as far as practicable from settlements, for example dewatering
pumps, to minimize the effects of noise generation;
(c)    careful selection and operation of plant, to avoid the use of unnecessarily noisy
plant and ensure that the selection of plant includes consideration of its noise
emissions. Where necessary, noise enclosures/screening may be appropriate
around unavoidable relatively noisy plant;
(d)    use of on-site materials as noise screens, for example the location of spoil heaps of
peat between the operational areas and settlements;



- 69 -
Annex S
Page 10 of 16
(e)   restriction of operating hours, to minimize the traffic and site operations during
quiet periods (evenings, night-time, week-ends, official holidays, etc. with the
possible exception of night-time delivery of bulk containers).
(f)   high standard of site supervision, training and maintenance of plant, since the site
management, appropriate training of workers in plant operation and adequate long
term maintenance of plant are all means by which noise emissions from on-site
operations can be reduced).
MITIGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
24.   The following Table 3 (taken from Section 7) summarizes the key mitigation measures
proposed to ensure that the development of the Welisara landfill does not result in unacceptable
residual impact on the surrounding environment.



- 70 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 16
3 0  Q   S   M                                      ] E   i t  X                                                         i o~~i 
.S ...............................................  ..............  ..... ,.........      .........        .....     -  . .................................................
8 .
0          ~             ~              ~              ~             ~            ~            ~ ~~~ 
0~~~~~G 
4,1
CZ



-71-                                                                                               Annex 5
Page 12 of 16
e                           E                                         [0  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                           o~                                        o.
>   n c. M                  E)      o          c            m   .                            o
' Sa                                      C                 g    N 2                                         0
Z                               u)                       C
. . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . ...  ...........   ...... . . . . . . . . . .   .. . .. . .  .. . . . . .  .. . . . . . . .  .. . . . . . .  .. . .  .. . . . . . . . .  .... .... ....
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
0..   ,,   ,   ............................... .........-..i.--.
o                                                I-.                                                                    .                  -
0                                                                                        0                        0C,
02
Ca~ ~ ~~~~-
04) ~       ~         ~           
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o                                                                                                     *0               o~~~~~~~~~~~~o v
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-                                      U                                                                                        021    
ti ~ ~ ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        )    l           ~       ~       0
Ot ~ ~           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0    . 



-72-                                                                                                      Annex 5
Page 13 of 16
X o                                                 - Y i                       9, .                                   -.S a   |
.......   ...........................................                               ...                ..........    ................................................ .
C)~~~~~~~~~C
c                                                                                                                                     3~~~~~~~~~~~~6
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
......................                       ............................................. ..............................    .............................. .....................
-''    1.1                                                                 '' '                                                                                            '
'n          .5D
'    .                                                       .i               'i



-)44
9  0
a   4                 SUOtIWldO als JO i!pne 1uapu >dapu 'jenutr  .                                                                                                                                                                        .
s                                DzD~~~3N  Aq uoINSU suT~) B                                                        1 O1U.Zdo as                                       salUA aJ~i~  1~J  U~O
suoqw2do als jo lipnv luopuodapu' 'ienuuV
CaIw  Aq uot1ads1ul Malma)                                                         iolejado ai!S ',jOI1  '!RA a1AoJ sSus2U As 0O UsWAIuuJ'
.................................................................................................................o...............................
...................................................... ........................................................ ............................................................................................................. ........................... .......................
suorndo ar!s Jo I!png luapuadapuI 'Intnw
*  Dll! uMolqpuIM puuB
DY1D Aq uoEPadsul 'lngaU*                                                          Iolwado aPIS .Tmopo 1UQAa d o0 I!sodap .zaij o1somjo RuuoAoow .IlnRa[
.. .... .......... .......... .... ...              .. ... .......         ... .....     . ...      ....                    .... .. ..    ..... .....      ... ....... ..................................... .....................  ... .....    ...................................--- ---
suoi wodo ops jo !ipns 1ur puadapui 'enuu\                                                                                                                                         UO!t20A 2le!udoiddu
jo 2u3ilulId pue Sutduospueu 'punq B jo UO11I4suoo.
D"D Aq uoiloadsui iuln2a- .                                                        iolujado al!S .                   Aq s'u ualuias uWoij ais aq4 JUo SuumS lens!A:
suoiulado DI!s jo !ipnu luapuadapu1 'junuuv. 
n                                                                                                                .         auawalnas Isaleau alp pue suopelado al!s usa^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jawilos sa u qlpuusuta1q,I
cDYI Aq uot1pasu!  iTn2la,                                                         iojLuado ;T!S,                  w OS jo auoz mXnq padolaAapun ue jo uoiSIA01d,
....................................................                               ...............................    ................................................  ..............................    ...........    ..,...............
suoiltuado al!s jo lipnu 1uapu dapu1 '                              unuuVu 
j,iu!l uMoqpu!M qaIp  o0
DDN Aq uoqoa&dsuz wjnS2a1 .                                                        jojdo aS,  juaEudinba iu!wts pUB spau 'susaDzs joll[ lo UolSuAOld
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....                             . ........ ..... .. .................................... 
suo0i uIdo al!s jo Itpnv luwpua&dpu! 'tunuuv.                                                                                                                                      uot)La9ao aLeudoiddu 
jo 2urluuld pue Sutdeaspueq 'punq ue jo uoilotUlsuoo '
3yJD Aq uot                                                                        iodsut  l2l )j  ioleiodo al!S  Aq stumwaloTas uoiij aps arp Jo 9utiajs IoisAqd*.
BU aUIdo a ISJO  1tpl,pn        ue  pued  pu   'JeLu           .            ''''''''''''''-                          --                             - -
.                                         '.         z~~~~~~~~~uwauililas jsalsau aql pue suoelaodo 21!s uoaamaq .
'VCLQ ql!m  yqDY   Aq uo!3dsui ieInso2I                                                             ioleiado ol!S:                   tu OS1jo auoz njnq padolpAapun ue jo UoiSiAoAdL
2UUoj!uo1J 2u!oSuo                                         f4!1!q!suodsjj Icuoilnj!lsul {                                                   aJnsfaS  Uo!1UgIl!i                                                            anssi



74                                                         Annex 5
Page 15 of 16
o                  o~~~'2~   1  5 Io ;                                       oai
go~~~~~~.
,~~~                                  ~ U0        O             c-  ,                                       cO
0 .  .   .    _.. ..                             .                .         _    .        _..
C                                         '            ' .''.   
W v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  K  I     
0~   N          ;U                                    C-) o,           C. o, S    o      ,  
o  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0 !0   0                                          0                             0                    0}X "B^    
.....................................   ...................... ..................... .............................  ..................... ....................................................................
e~~~ 
...~~~ -   t ..                                              . 0   04
_  " W1'



Issue                                           Mitigation Measure                                               Institutional Responsibility                                             Ongoing Monitoring
Occupational Health                      Provision of education and training for site personnel    Site operator                                                                           Regular inspection by CMC
and Safety                                and scavengers
Annual, independent audit of site operations
......... .................... ......... ..................................... ................... ............................... ......................................................................... .. . ..... ........I........... .................... .........
Provision of emergency plans and equipment, for                                      Site operator                                                Regular review by CMC
example fire fighting, First Aid at strategic locations
Annual, indcpendent audit of site operations
Design of site to maximise distance of offices and                                   Design Contractor                                            Regular review by CMC
general access areas from the tipping face
Annual, independent audit of site operations
..............    ....          .....            .................  ........... ........................................    ............................................................................... ....... ............................... .......... ...........................
Provision of signs in three languages                                                Site operator                                                Regular review by CMC
Annual, independent audit of site operations
....................... ............................... ................-.......................................................................................... ................................................. ......... .......- ..... ....... ......................
Provision of clear labelling of hazards and sign-posting   Site operator                                                                          Regular inspection by CMC
I within the site
Annual, independent audit of site operations
w
(D
o-, >
rt'
x



- 76 -
Annex 6
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
SLRs million-          -US$ million-
Local  Foreign     Total    LocaJ  Foreign     Total
(l)Municipal Solid Waste Manaaement
(a)Construction of Landfill
Base cost                          177.8    225.9    403.7        3.0      4.5       8.1
Physical Contingencies              26.7      33.9     60.6       0.6      0.7       1.2
Price Contingencies                 93.4    118.7    212.1        0.       0.6       1.0
subtotal                          297.9    378.5    076.4       4.5       6.7     10.2
(b)Construction of Transfer Station
Base cost                           24.8      31.6     56.3       0.6      0.6       1.1
Physical Contingencies               3.7       4.7      8.4       0.1      0.1       0.2
Price Contingencies                 10.3      13.0     23.3       0.0      0.1       0.1
subtotal                           38.8     49.2      88.0      0.0       0.8      1.4
(c)Compost Plant
Base cost                           49.6      63.0    112.6       1.0      1.3       2.3
Physical Contingencies               7.5       9.5     17.0      0.1       0.2       0.3
Price Contingencies                 20.5      26.1     46.6       0.1      0.1       0.2
subtotal                           77.6     98.6    176.2       1.2       1.6      2.8
(d)Hospital Waste Collection
Base cost                            3.0      15.0     18.0       0.1      0.3       0.4
Physical Contingencies               0.5       2.2      2.7       0.0      0.1       0.1
Price Contingencies                  1.2       e.2      7.4       0.0      0.0       0.0
subtotal                            4.7     23.4      28.1      0.1       0.4      0.6
(e)Community Infrastructure
Base cost                           35.0               35.0       0.7                0.7
Physical Contingencies               5.3                5.3       0.1                0.1
Price Contingencies                 16.5               16.5       0.1                0.1
subtotal                           56.8      0.0      56.8      0.9       0.0      0.9
(I )Wastewater Collection
(a)Ratmalana Sewer Network
Base cost                          261.0    105.0    366.0        5.2      2.1       7.3
Physical Contingencies              39.2      15.8     55.0       0.8      0.3       1.1
Price Contingencies                126.4      50.8    177.2       0.6      0.2       0.8
subtotal                          426.6    171.6    598.2       6.6       2.6      9.2
(b)Ekala/Ja-Ela Sewer Network
Base cost                           73.0      15.0     88.0       1.5      0.3       1.8
Physical Contingencies              10.9       2.3     13.2       0.2      0.1       0.3
Price Contingencies                 35.4       7.3     42.7       0.2      0.0       0.2
subtotal                          119.3     24.6    143.9       1.8       0.4      2.2
(IlI)Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control
Base cost                          358.7    141.6    500.3        7.2      2.8      10.0
Physical Contingencies              53.8      21.2     75.0      1.1       0.4       1.5
Price Contingencies                214.8      84.8    290.6       1.0      0.4       1.4
subtotal                          627.3    247.60     74.9      9.2       3.6     12.9
(llI)Technical Assistance
(a)Project Preparation Consultancles   7.0     28.0      35.0      0.1       0.6      0.7
(b)Project Implementation Consultancies
Base Cost                           52.8      99.7    152.6       1.1      2.0      3.1
Physical Contingencies               7.1      13.1     20.2      0.1       0.3       0.4
Price Contingencies                 23.3      41.7     65.0       0.1      0.2       0.3
subtotal                           83.2    154.6    237.7       1.3       2.4      3.7
(c)Capacity Building & Training
Base Cost                           565.8      9.7    145.5       1.1      1.8       2.9
Physical Contingencles               8.7      11.7     20.4      0.2       0.2       0.4
Price Contingencies                  7.4      24.9     32.3      0.0       0.1       0.1
subtotal                           71.9    126.3    198.2       1.3       2.1      3.5
(d)Studies
Base Cost                           15.7      26.8     42.5       0.3      0.5       0.9
Physical Contingencies               2.3       4.0      6.3      0.1       0.1      0.1
Price Contingencies                  9.4      15.8     25.2       0.0      0.1       0.1
subtotal                           27.4     46.0      74.0      0.4       0.7      1.1
Total Base Cost                   1114.2    841.2   1956.4       22.3     16.8      39.1
Physical Contingencies             165.7    118.4    284.1       3.3       2.4       5.7
Price Contingencies                558.6    389.3    947.9        2.5      1.7       4.2
Total Project Cost                1838.5   1348.9   3187.4       28.1     20.9      49.0
..... .l    .S -  *-                    -     - * ---*-...



- 77 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Financial             Disbursements  US$ million   Cumulative
Year and Semester            in semester    cumulative        (%)
1996       December 31, 1995          1.0           1.0            3
June 30, 1996             2.0            3.0            8
1997       December 31, 1996          3.0           6.0           15
June 30, 1997             4.0           10.0            26
1998     lDecember 31, 1997          4.2           14.2           36
June 30, 1998             4.3           18.5           47
1999      December 31, 1998          4.2           22.7           58
June 30, 1999             4.3           27.0           69
2000       December 31, 1999          4.2          31.2           80
June 30, 2000             4.3           35.5           91
2001       December31, 2000           2.0          37.5           96
June 30, 2001              1.5          39.0          100



- 78 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
PUBLIC CONSULTATION PANEL
Background
1.    The ultimate beneficiaries of the project are the residents of the CMA and visitors to the area.
At the end of the project, the environment in the area would be significantly improved through
improved garbage disposal, reduced industrial pollution and gradual improvements to the Beira Lake
water quality. It is appropriate that the citizens are provided an opportunity to influence the design of
the final outcome, on a continuing basis. Thus it is proposed to establish a Beneficiaries Panel
consisting of citizen representatives and government agencies.
Objectives
2.    The specific objectives of the panel are:
a.    to promote awareness and public acceptability of the project components;
b.    to facilitate public consultation; and
c.    to conduct half-yearly review of project progress and make recommendations to the
Implementing Agencies and IDA; and
3.    Mandate. The Panel shall be appointed for a period of six years.
4.    Composition. The Panel will consist of 9 members and 9 altemates. Five of the nine members
will be from citizen groups and non-government organizations, while four will be government
representatives. The Panel Secretariat will be the PCU. When a regular member is not available, he or
she will be represented by the alternate.
a.    Panel Chair -- Secretary, MHCPU;
b.    A representative from the consumer or rate payers association;
c.    A representative from the Business or Industry Chamber;
d.    Two representatives from environmental activist organizations with good knowledge
and experience of environmental conditions of CMA;
e.    A representative from the news media/press;
f     A representative of the Ministry of Finance and Planning;
g.    A representative of the Mnistry of Environment; and
h.    A representative of the Westem Provincial Council.



- 79 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
5.    Specific Tasks.
a.    The panel will meet half-yearly over a period of one week.  The Implementing
Agencies will make available progress reports to the Panel. As and when required, the
PCU would announce in the media, inviting comments from the public on the project a
month before the meeting of the panel;
b.    the panel will conduct its business objectively;
c.    the panel will invite representatives of the Implementing Agencies to make
presentations on the status of each component, and will query any deviation from the
proposed objectives;
d.    the panel will hear citizen comments, either individually or through an organized forum;
e.    the panel will invite local community groups or organizations from Welisara, Ekala/Ja-
Ela, Ratmalana, and the Beira Lake catchment area to make representations on the
respective project sites;
f     the Implementing Agencies will ensure that the relevant project staff participate in the
panel sitting, when required to be present; and
g.    the panel will prepare a report of its findings at the conclusion of each sitting and
forward the report to the respective implementing agency.
Timing. The panel sittings will be a held a fortnight before the arrival of the IDA supervision
mission. The PCU will forward the report of the panel to IDA.



- 80 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Imnlementation Schedule
Activity                          jDate
I. Solid Waste Management
A. Landfill Contracts (Contracts A and B)
(i)    issue of prequalification document    5/22/95
(ii)    submission of prequalification        7/22/95
applications
(iii)    evaluation of applications           7/23/95 -- 8/23/95
(iv)    IDA clearance                         9/8/95
(v)    invitation of bids                    9/15/95
(vi)    bid opening                           12/15/95
(vii)    bid evaluation                        12/18/95 -- 2/16/96
(viii)    IDA clearance                        2/20/95 -- 3/8/96
(ix)    awards of contracts                   4/8/96
(x)    implementation of Contract A (3 years)  5/1/96 -- 4/30/99
B. Clinical Waste Management
(1) Supply of Equipment
(i)    invitation of bids                    9/15/96
(ii)    bid opening                           10/31/96
(iii)    bid evaluation                       11/4/96 -- 11/25/96
(iv)    IDA clearance                         12/2/96 -- 12/13/96
(v)    award of contract                      1/31/97
(vi)    delivery                              6/30/97
(2) Training of Hospital Staff                    7/1/97 -- 10/31/97
(3) Contracting of Collection of Transport Services  7/1/97 -- 10/31/97
C. Community Infrastructure                          1/1/96 -- 12/31/97
D. Management Consultant
(i)    invitation of proposals               5/31/95
(ii)    submission of proposals               7/31/95
(iii)    evaluation                           8/1/95 -- 8/31/95
(iv)    IDA clearance                         9/15/95
(v)    award of contract                      10/16/95
(vi)    duration of consultancy (3l/2 years)  11/95 -- 4/99
II. Sewer Networks in Ratmalana & Ekla/Ja-Ela
A. Engineering and Supervision Consultant
(i)    invitation of proposals               5/31/95
(ii)    submission of proposals              7/31/95
(iii)    evaluation                           8/1/95 -- 8/31/95
(iv)    IDA clearance                         9/15/95
(v)    award of contract                      10/16/95
(vi)    duration of consultancy               11/95 -- 3/99



- 81 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
B. Construction Contract
(i)    preparation of prequalification and bid    11/95 -- 3/96
documents
(ii)    IDA clearance                              4/22/96
(iii)    prequalification                          5/1//96 -- 7/15/96
(iv)    IDA clearance of pre-qualification         7/31/96
(v)     invitation of bids                         8/15/96
(vi)    bid opening                                10/31/96
(vii)    bid evaluation                             11/1/96 -- 12/31/96
(viii)    IDA clearance                              1/17/97
(ix)     award of contract                         2/28/97
(x)     implementation (2 years)                   3/97 -- 3/99
C. BOO/BOT Wastewater Treatment Plant Consultant
(i)    invitation of proposals                    5/31/95
(ii)    submission of proposals                    7/31/95
(iii)    evaluation                                8/1/95 -- 8/31/95
(iv)    IDA clearance                              9/15/95
(v)     award of contract                          10/16/95
(vi)    duration of consultancy                    11/95 -- 3/97
a.      preparation of draft RFP package    11/95 -- 4/96
b.     IDA review                         5/1/96 -- 5/20/96
c.      prequalification                  6/3/96 -- 7/31/96
d.     IDA review                         8/15/96
e.     invitation of proposals            8/19/96 -- 11/15/96
f.      evaluation                        11/18/96 -- 12/31/96
g.     IDA review                         1/6//97 -- 1/17/97
h.      negotiation                       1/20/97 -- 2/28/97
i.     signing of BOO/BOT Agreement   3/31/97
111. Beira Lake Catchment Sewerage Works
A. Engineering and Supervision Consultant
(i)    invitation of proposals                    5/31/95
(ii)    submission of proposals                    7/31/95
(iii)    evaluation                                8/1/95 -- 8/31/95
(iv)     IDA clearance                             9/15/95
(v)     award of contract                          10/16/95
(v'i)   duration of consultancy                    11/96 -- 12/99
B. Construction Contract (area 1)
(i)    preparation of prequalification and bid    11/95 -- 3/96
documents
(ii)    IDA clearance                              4/22/96
(iii)    prequalification                          5/1/96 -- 7/15/96
(iv)    IDA clearance                              7/31/96
(v)     invitation of bids                         8/15/96
(vi)    bid opening                                10/31/96
(vii)    bid evaluation                             11/1/96 -- 1/17/97
(viii)    IDA clearance                              1/31/97
(ix)    award of contract                          2/28/97
(x)     implementation (2'/2 years)                3/97 -- 9/99



- 82 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
C. Construction Contract (area 2)
(i)    invitation of bids                         11/l/96
(ii)    bid opening                               1/13/97
(iii)   bid evaluation                             1/14/97 -- 3/14/97
(iv)    IDA clearance                             4/7/97
(v)     award of contract                         5/16/97
(vi)    implementation (21/2 years)               6/97 -- 12/99
IV. Capacity Building Technical Assistance
A. Establishment of GIS
(1) Engagement of Consultant
(i)    preparation of TOR, LOI and shortlist     6/1/95 -- 7/31/95
(ii)    IDA clearance                             8/15/95
(iii)    invitation of proposals                   8/21/95
(iv)    evaluation                                 10/23/95 -- 11/30/95
(v)     IDA clearance                             12/16/95
(vi)    award of contract                          1/15/96
(vii)    duration of consultancy                   2/96 -- 4/98
(2) Procurement of GIS
(single responsibility contract)
(i)    preparation of bid documents              4/15/96
(ii)    IDA clearance                             4/30/96
(iii)    invitation of bids                        5/6/96
(iv)    bid opening                               7/5/96
(v)     evaluation                                7/8/96 -- 8/30/96
(vi)    IDA clearance                             9/16/96
(vii)    award of contract                         10/18/96
(viii)    contract execution ( 1/2 years)           11/96 -- 4/98
B. Colombo Master Plan Update and
Trincomalee Infrastructure Development Plan
(i)    preparation of TOR, LOI and shortlist     6/1/95 -- 8/31/95
(ii)    IDA clearance                             9/15/95
(iii)    invitation of proposals                   9/20/95
(iv)    evaluation                                11/20/95 -- 1/5/96
(v)     IDA clearance                             1/19/96
(vi)    award of contract                         2/16/96
(vii)    duration of consultancy                   3/96 -- 2/97
C. Long-term solid waste disposal strategy
(included in the solid w'aste management consultancv)  1/98 -- 4/99
D. Beira Lake Follow-up Study                             9/99 -- 6/2000
E. Water Quality Monitoring Program                       7/97 -- 6/2001



- 83 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of S
Monitoring Indicators
L Solid Waste Manafement
Kev Progress Indicators                               Target(s)                 Due Date(s)
1) commissioning of landfill operation                                       January 1998
2) no. of ULA using the landfill site              CMC and 14 other ULAs    January 1998
3) segregation and specialized collection and disposal   100% coverage       January 1998
of clinical wastes
4) contracting out of primary solid waste collection by   i) 50% of service area  December 1996
CMC                                            ii) 80% of service area   December 1997
5) no. of ULAs involving private sector in solid waste
operations.
Cost Recover                                         i) full recovery of operating  January 1998
cost of landfill
ii) full recovery of      January 2001
operating cost and debt
service
Impact Indicators (CMC and Participating LAs)
1) waste collection/waste generation ratio         95%                       December 1998
2) elimination of open dumps                       100%                      December 1998
II. Beira Lake Catchment Pollution Control
Key Progress Indicators                               Target(s)                 Due Date(s)
1) % of catchment area where works are completed  (i) 20%                    December 1997
(ii) 70%                  December 1998
(iii) 100%                December 1999
Impact Indicators
1) Faecal coliforms                               50% reduction in storm     December 2001
sewer network;
50% reduction in the lake
2) BOD                                             70% reduction in storm    December 2001
sewer network
3) Chlorophyll-a                                   0. Omg/L                 December 2001
4) Total Phosphorus (as "P")                       0.75mg/L                  December 2001



- 84 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
5) Transparency                                    50 cm                     December 2001
6) Suspended solids                                45 mglL                   December 2001
7) reduction in pollutant loadings
* organic loadings (BOD5)
* nutrient loadings (Phosphorous)
m. Wastewater Collection and Treatment
in Ratmalana & Ekla/Ja-Ela
Key Progress Indicators                              Target(s)                  Due Date(s)
1) completion of construction of sewer networks and                          December 1998
treatment plants
2) conclusion of industrial wastewater discharge   100 industries in Ratmalana  December 1997
standards compliance agreements                and 66 industries in
Ekla/Ja-Ela
3) connections by industries                       Ratmalana:                December 1999
200 industries
Ekla/Ja-Ela:              December 1999
68 industries
Impact Indicators
1) reduction in pollutant loadings
* organic loadings (BOD5)
* heavy metal removal



-85 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT PROGRESS REPORTING REOUIREMENTS
1.-  During project implementation, CMC/NWSDB/UDA shall report project implementation
status through quarterly progress reports. Upon request, copies of ad hoc reports prepared on
matters of importance to project implementation and operations should also be promptly furnished
to lDA.
2.   Quarterly reports should be sent to IDA not later than one month after the end of each
quarter and should cover (a) procurement activities; (b) physical progress; (c) progress of
institution building technical assistance; (d) cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements; and
(e) management and operations of project beneficiaries. The scope and contents of quarterly
reports are indicated in paras. 5 - 12 below.
3.   During project implementation, CMC/NWSDB/UDA shall submit audited annual project
accounts together with auditors' reports within seven months from the end of the fiscal year under
consideration. The audit reports should include a separate auditors' opinion on withdrawals made
on the basis of statements of expenditures and from the project Special Account, and should be
accompanied by (i) reports on the sources and applications of funds for each project component
both for the most recent reporting period and on a cumulative basis; and (ii) reports summarizing
their respective key performance indicators for the fiscal year under consideration against the
targets as agreed with IDA.
4.   Within four months of the credit closing date, CMC/NWSDB/UDA will prepare and furnish
to IDA a Project Implementation Completion Report (PICR) on the execution and initial
operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived from it, the accomplishment of the
objectives of the credit, the plan for the project's future operation and the lessons learned. Near
the end of the project implementation period, IDA shall inform GOSL and CMC/NWSDB/UDA
of project completion reporting steps and PICR data requirements.
Quarterly Project Implementation Progress Report
5.   Quarterly implementation progress report shall summarize the overall implementation status
with a brief description of important phases underway and planned, and highlight any existing or
anticipated issues, which may become critical to timely execution of the project. It shall provide
sufficient information on actual implementation progress for each project component covering at
least the following aspects:
(a)  physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b)  a comparison (in percentage terms) of actual progress at the end of the reporting
period with the original forecast of progress (SAR schedule) at this date;
(c)  changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the construction of the
project or increase its cost; and



- 86 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
(d)  the expected dates of completion of the project components.
Text of the Report
6.   The text of the report should describe the work performed on each component during the
reporting period. Where appropriate, the text should include explanations of and comments on:
(a)  actual or expected material deviations from the original (or amended) design or
schedule;
(b)  any actual or expected event or condition which may affect the cost of the project;
(c)  actual or expected difficulties or delays, any measures taken or planned to correct
them, and the probable effects on the construction -schedule;
(d)  expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the project or the
project as a whole;
(e)  changes in key personnel in the staff of project implementing agencies or their
consultants;
(f)  any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.
Tables and Bar Charts
7.   In addition to the text, tables following formats similar to those attached shall be provided
as part of the reports. Where appropriate, bar charts should be included to show separately
scheduled and actual progress on each of the main components of the project.
Procurement Activity
8.   Because of its impact on overall project implementation progress, procurement shall be
given special attention. In this regard, procurement table should provide as many relevant details
as possible, with complete lists of tenders for all goods, works and services to be acquired for the
project. The table should indicate all key actions, such as: (i) IDA's concurrence to bidding
documents as agreed under the Credit; (ii) prequalification of bidders as applicable to the type of
procurement involved; (iii) receipt of bids; (iv) bid evaluation and IDA's concurrence; (v) award
of contract; and (vi) progress of delivery (see Exhibit A).
Cost Estimates. Expenditures and Disbursements
9.   Table updating cost estimates, expenditures incurred and disbursements claimed and
forecasted shall be part of the quarterly project implementation progress report (see Exhibit B).



87 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
10.  The figures of "Original Estimated Costs" should be those used in the corresponding table
in IDA's Appraisal Report. The table should show any substantial changes in the cost estimates
that have become necessary since the previous report. The reasons for such changes should be
explained in the text of the report. Estimates should be reviewed and if necessary revised from
time to time. Such revisions may be necessary after important contracts have been awarded. In
any case, the estimates should be reviewed not less frequently than once a year.
11.  As the exhibit indicates, the report should show the amount of expenditures up to the end
of the reporting period, and the balance of expenditures still to be made to complete the project
on the basis of the latest estimated costs. Cost estimates and expenditures in foreign currency
should be shown separately from those in local currency, for each of the main items comprising
the project.
Quarterly Report on Management and Operations
12.  This should be a narrative report, supplemented by graphs or schedules if necessary. The
subjects which should be included are:
(a)  actual or prospective changes in key personnel in the project implementation units;
(b)  significant developments in the organizations and general operations of
CMC/NWSDB/UDA; and
(c)  the development of revenue collections.



Annex 10
- 88 -                                  Exhibit A
i'
Ca   i.
I 



QUARTERLY REPORT ON PROJECT COST ESTIMATE. EXPENDITURES AND COMMITMENTS
Reporting Period
Cost Estimate                          Disbursements
Previous                                                           Balance of                     Remaining
Original     Revised     Revisions                    This         Total       Outstanding                      Costs to
Estimate     Estimate   This Quarter   Previous     Quarter    Disbursements  Commitments        Total      Complete Project
Project                                                                              (Col 4 + 5)                  (Col 6 + 7)     (Col 3 - 8)
Components              (1)           (2)          (3)          (4)          (5)          (6)             (7)            (8)            (9)
Foreiea Cost (USS Afillion)
Total Foreign Costs                            =
Local Cost (SLRs Millions)
TotalLoca s_                                                                                  _                          _                  r
Total Local Costs  __ _  _  __   _  _  _                                                                          o__    _  _  __  _  _   _



- 90 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
Dates               Activity                  Skills Required           Staff Inputs
(Approximate)                            _____(Staff weeks)
TM   PE  ES  RM   UP  GIS
9/95     Project Launch Workshop      X    X   X   X    X   X               10
3/96     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X           _             8
9/96     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X                         8
3/97     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X                         7
9/97     Mid-Term Review              X    X   X   X    X   X               10
3/98     Project Supervision          X    X   X    X       =    =           7
9/98     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X                         7
3/99     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X                        6
9/99     Project Supervision          X    X   X   X                         6
3/2000    Project Supervision          X    X   X   X        = _=             6
9/2000    ICR Mission                  X    X   X   X          T__           10
TM = Task Manager
PE = Project Management Engineer
ES = Environment Specialist
UP = Urban Planner
GIS = Geographic Information Specialist
RM = Resident Mission



- 91 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Environmental Management Strategy and Action Plan for Colombo Urban Area, by BKH
Consulting Engineers (Netherlands) and Environmental Engineering Consultants (Sri Lanka),
March 1994.
2.    National Environmental Action Plan, 1992-96, by the Ministry of Environment and
Parliamentary Affairs, October 1991.
3.    Solid Waste Management Component: Review of Potential Landfill Sites, by Environmental
Resources Management Ltd. (U.K), October 1993.
4.    Solid Waste Management Component: Environmental Impact Assessment, by Environmental
Resources Management Ltd. (U.K), April 1994.
5.    "Solid Waste Management Component, CEIP, Sri Lanka: Conceptual Design - Landfill
Volume," 3 Vols, by Environmental Resources Management Ltd. (UK), May 1994.
6.    "Solid Waste Management Component, CEIP, Sri Lanka: Conceptual Design - Transfer
Station," by Environmental Resources Management Ltd. (U.K), May 1994.
7.    "BOO and BOT: Best Practices."
8.    Feasibility Study for Establishment of a Joint Wastewater Treatment Plant for Industrial Estates
and Industries in Ekala and Ja-Ela. Drawings, Interim Report, by Soil and Water Enviroplan
Ltd. (Finland), February 1994.
9.    Feasibility Study for the Establishment of a Joint Wastewater Treatment Plant for Industrial
Estates and Industries in Ratmalana and Moratuwa, by Associated Engineering International
Ltd. (Canada), December 1993.
10.   Beira Restoration Study, by Roche International (Canada), December 1993.
11.   Beira Lake: Sewerage Engineering Estimate, by Engineering Science (USA).



7 15'                                                                                                                                              '        f
I  -    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -
75  00  85~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., J                                                                l    "
A--10S  A'S0
c01~~~010e ~ ~   .0 i
IN,,,NTIONAI I                                                                                     6 ..
BON5 RY       80              85 
MALCOOBODIVESNTLIMRVMETPRJC
COSA   ETLANDS<                                          DRING  |UI\AS                                 0     <    BUL LI ARA
8wAe I,                                                          X                           ^t4                      S
IOATAL NATI OA                                               M                                               U          U       ESRs
SIRIECOLNSERVATINVIRONLMENTIRAL AREAROVEN                                                    NTPRRYC
AREAFS WITtU FDSUPFACEWATER BONDARIESSNDURIRI1,1ARIA
SEORIOU                                                  MUTMSPIATAN  SPA RNNEJAS
COASfA~\  tFI! . AT       r,m". derl,l l  . l                                         ml.....    MEDIUM         NDUSTRIA ESTAT1
AREA REC.MENDFE FO                                    (O"         / AIRPORTa,L
i1ic CONS/ AT                                                .t
APA Wm        T lr  POETA TO                          ------- CO,/P _IA  ARE BOUNDARY
> > to     A~~~~~~~CnOA   lAoROOr)ANAPA BUNAR



IMAGING
Report No:       12878 CE
Type: SAR



