CREDIT NUMBER 2757 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Colombo Environmental Improvement Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated            , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUNBER 2757 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated , 1995, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements"
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decisiov of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)    "CMC Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Colombo Municipal Council and the Urban Development Authority
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time. and such term includes all schedules to the CMC Agreement;
(b)    "NWSDB Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the NWSDB Agreement;
(c)    "UDA Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Urban Development Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the. UDA Agreement;
(d)    "Project Area" means the Colombo Municipal Council and surrounding
local authorities in the Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha Districts of the Borrower's
Western Province;
(e)    "AWDR" means the Average Weighted Deposit Rate, namely the
weighted average of the interest rates paid to depositors by the branches in the Greater
Colombo area of domestic commercial banks (other than the National Savings Bank) on
interest-bearing term deposits, as issued weekly by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,
calculated on the basis of the previous 26 week period;
(f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
November 1, 1993 and November 22, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
and
(g) "Special Account " means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty four million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a sprvice charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June
15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2005 and ending June 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out and
cause to be carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, environmental, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(c)    The Borrower shall, in order to assist in carrying out Part A of the
Project, onlend an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $12,900,000 out of the
proceeds of the Credit to the Colombo Municipal Council under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Colombo Municipal Council and the Urban
Development Authority, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include those outlined in Part A of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
(d)    The Borrower shall, in order to assist in carrying out Part B of the
Project, onlend an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $9,800,000 out of the proceeds
of the Credit to the National Water Supply and Drainage Board under an agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which
shall include those outlined in Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(e)    The Borrower shall, in order to assist in carrying out Part C of the
Project, make available an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $15,600,000 out of the
proceeds of the Credit to the Urban Development Authority under an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Urban Development Authority, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include those outlined in Part C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(f)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CMC Agreement, the
NWSDB Agreement, and the UDA Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the


﻿-6-
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the CMC Agreement, the NWSDB Agreement, and the UDA
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures of the Colombo Municipal Council, the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board and the Urban Development Authority, including those
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)      have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿-7-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)      furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than seven months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)     furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)      maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)      retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Accounts
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)      enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)      ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the CMC Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the Colombo Municipal Council and the Urban Developmental Authority;
(b)    the NWSDB Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
the National Water Supply and Drainage Board;
(c)    the UDA Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the
Urban Development Authority; and
(d)    consultants shall have been employed pursuant to the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for:
(i)    solid waste management;
(ii)   design and construction supervision for the wastewater collection
systems and Beira Lake catchment area sewerage works; and
(iii)  solicitation and evaluation of Build, Own, Operate or Build,
Own, Transfer proposals for the wastewater treatment plants.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)    that the CMC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Colombo Municipal Council and the Urban Development Authority and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Colombo Municipal Council and the Urban
Development Authority in accordance with its terms;
(b)    that the NWSDB Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board in accordance with its
terms; and


﻿-9-
(c)    that the UDA Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Urban Development Authority and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Urban Development Authority in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Planning, Ethnic Affairs, and
National Integration of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Planning, Ethnic Affairs,
and National Integration
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:                    Telex:
SECMINFIN                   FINMIN 21409
Colombo                     FORAID 21232
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By / -:       I    %    \            AKK' )J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Eguivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Turnkey Contract               6,550,000             100% of foreign
under Part A.1                                      expenditures and
of the Project                                      70% of local
expenditures
(2) Sewerage works                 5,470,000             100% of foreign
under Part C.1                                      expenditures and
of the Project                                      70% of local
expenditures
(3) Sewer Networks                 4,830,000             100% of foreign
under Part B.1                                      expenditures and
of the Project                                      70% of local
expenditures
(4) Other civil works                320,000             70%
(5) Goods                          1,140,000             100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
costs) and 70% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(6) Consultants'                    3,690,000             100%
services,
mass media
and training
(7) Refunding of                     450,000              Amounts due
Preparation                                           pursuant to
Advance                                               Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                     2,350,000
TOTAL                          24,800,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means exponditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "turnkey contract" includes detailed design and construction of
the landfill and compost plant, and supply of mobile equipment for the operation of the
landfill.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made:
(a)    in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and


﻿- 13 -
(b)    in respect of expenditures under Category (3) unless financing
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, for the construction of the two wastewater
treatment plants under Pat B.1 of the Project, have been concluded.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure under contracts for:
(a)    goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;
(b)    works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent;
(c)    consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)    individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve solid waste management in the
Project Area; (ii) to control wastewater pollution; (iii) to develop capabilities for
management of municipal services; and (iv) to assist in mobilizing private participation
in urban infrastructure development and operation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Colombo Municipal Council
1.     Construction of a sanitary landfill and a 100 tons per day capacity compost plant
at Welisara.
2.     Provision of equipment and vehicles for collection, transport and disposal of
hospital wastes at the Welisara landfill.
3.     Provision of technical assistance to the Colombo Municipal Council and
participating local authorities, to improve solid waste management, to involve the private
sector in waste management operations, and for implementation support (such as
preparation of designs and bid documents, bid evaluation and construction supervision).
Part B:       National Water Supply and Drainage Board
1.     Construction of two sewer networks, one in the Ratmalana, and another in the
Ekala/Ja-Ela industrialized areas, to convey industrial and domestic wastewater to two
wastewater treatment plants to be built and operated by private investors.
2.     Provision of technical assistance to the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board to solicit for formulation and evaluation of proposals for the construction and
operation of the wastewater treatment plants, and other implementation support (such as
preparation of designs and bid documents, bid evaluation and construction supervision).
Part C:       Urban Development Authority
1.     Construction of sewerage works in the Beira Lake catchment area for:


﻿- 15 -
(a)    connection of wastewater outlets to the sewerage system; and
(b)    reduction of sewerage overflows through cleaning of sewer lines,
rehabilitating pumping stations, and adding a sewer line.
2.     Provision of potable water supply and other infrastructure to the community
residing adjacent to the Welisara landfill site.
3.     Carrying out of a public awareness program.
4.     Provision of technical assistance to the Urban Development Authority for:
(a)    establishment of a geographic information system for Greater Colombo;
(b)    preparation of Colombo Master Plan update and a Trincomalee regional
infrastructure developmeiit plan;
(c)    completion of a long-term solid waste disposal strategy for the Project
Area;
(d)    Beira Lake restoration follow-up study; and
(e)    implementation support (such as preparation of designs and bid
documents, bid evaluation and construction supervision).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 16-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)    Pre-gualification
Bidders for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
Community Participation
Provision of community infrastructure under Part C.2 of the Project estimated to
cosi the equivalent of $900,000 or less in the aggregate, may be procured in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts,


﻿- 18 -
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
General
1.     The Borrower shall maintain with members, staff, responsibilities and resources
satisfactory to the Association:
(a)    the Project Coordinating Unit; and
(b)    the Public Consultation Panel.
2.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)    by September 30, 1997 conduct a comprehensive mid-term review with
the Association with regard to the implementation of the Project, in line with the
objectives of the Project.
3.     The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that the Colombo
Municipal Council has full and complete access at any time to the Welisara landfill site.
4.     The Borrower shall cause to be completed by June 30, 1997 a time-bound
program satisfactory to the Association, for compliance with established industrial
wastewater effluent discharge standards in the Ratmalana and Ekala/Ja-Ela industrial areas.
5.     The Borrower shall arrange for adequate and timely funds for the construction of
the wastewater treatment plants in the event no financing from the private sector for that
purpose is secured.
Colombo Municipal Council
6.     The Borrower shall cause the Colombo Municipal Council to:
(a)    maintain a CMC Project Implementation Unit with staff, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to the Association;


﻿-20-
(b)    establish and thereafter maintain under an accounting system satisfactory
to the Association, without limitation on the provision of Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, separate accounts with respect to the Project;
(c)    with the assistance of the Western Provincial Council and the Urban
Development Authority, together with participating local authorities to:
(i)     open and maintain an escrow    account with a financial
intermediary satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of
making payments to the landfill operator;
(ii)    commencing at least three months prior to the date the site is
ready to receive wastes, make monthly deposits into the escrow
account based on the projected tonnages of wastes and the cost-
sharing formula agreed by the Colombo Municipal Council and
the participating local authorities; and
(iii)   maintain the balance in the escrow account at a level sufficient
to cover three months of the operating expenses of the landfill;
(d)    ensure implementation of environmental mitigation measures and a
monitoring system satisfactory to the Association, for the Welisara landfill operation; and
(e)    implement the plan and time-table satisfactory to the Association for the
establishment of a dedicated source of funding for the operations of the Colombo
sewerage system.
National Water Supply and Drainage Board
7.     The Borrower shall cause the National Water Supply and Drainage Board to:
(a)    maintain  an  NWSDB    Project Implementation  Unit with staff,
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    establish and thereafter maintain under an accounting system satisfactory
to the Association, without limitation on the provision of Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, separate accounts with respect to: (i) the Project, (ii) the operation and
maintenance of the Colombo sewerage system after transfer of the system to the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board;


﻿- 21 -
(c)    implement the plan and time-table satisfactory to the Association for the
establishment of a dedicated source of funding for the operations of the Colombo
sewerage system; and
(d)    generate revenues from  its sewerage operations at Ratmalana and
Ekala/Ja-Ela, sufficient to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance of such sewer
networks, and the amounts billed by the wastewater treatment plants.
Urban Development Authority
8.     The Borrower shall cause the Urban Development Authority to:
(a)    maintain a UDA Project Implementation Unit with staff, responsibilities
and resources satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)    establish and thereafter maintain under an accounting system satisfactory
to the Association, without limitation on the provision of Section 4.01 (a) of this
Agreement, separate accounts with respect to the Project.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth
in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $1,700,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 23 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the


﻿- 24 -
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdre-wn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refind, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions
Part A:       CMC Agreement (Part A of the Project)
1.     Amount                            :      $12,900,000 equivalent
2.    Interest rate                      :      variable, not below AWDR
(adjustable every 6 months)
3.     Amortization period               :      20 years including 6 years of
grace
4.     Foreign exchange risk             :      to be borne by the Borrower
CMC Agreement is to incorporate the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
Part B:       NWSDB Agreement (Part B of the Project)
1.    Amount                             :      $9,800,000 equivalent
2.    Interest rate                      :      variable, not below AWDR
(adjustable every 6 months)
3.     Amortization period               :      20 years including 6 years of
grace
4.     Foreign exchange risk             :      to be borne by the Borrower
NWSDB Agreement is to incorporate the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement
Part C:       UDA Agreement (Part C of the Project)
Amount                             :     $15,600,000 equivalent
UDA Agreement is to incorporate the provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


