Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3100 
Operation Name 
Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable 
Development 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Subnational government administration (35%); Health (35%); 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P095877 
Borrower(s) 
GOV OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
NATL PLANNING DEPT (DNP) & MINISTRY OF 
ENVIRONMENT (MAVDT) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 30, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 22, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Over the past five decades, the government of Colombia has engaged in a number of activities to 
protect the environment, ranging from restructuring the legal and regulatory landscape to 
strengthening institutional capacity for protecting and managing natural resources and 
environmental quality.  During this time Colombia’s environmental management framework has 
focused on three main priorities:  (i) river basin management and conservation of water bodies, 
(ii) reforestation, and (iii) conservation of biodiversity.  With increasing urbanization, new 
environmental challenges have arisen that have yet to be fully addressed.  These challenges 
include the impacts of human activities on the environment, such as (i) localized environmental 
health problems associated with inadequate household water and sanitation and indoor air 
pollution; (ii) urban and regional air pollution, inadequate waste management, and contamination 
of rivers, lakes, and coastal areas; and (iii) natural resource degradation and global 
environmental problems.  This environmental degradation threatens the well-being of current and 
future generations, particularly the most vulnerable segments of the population (children and the 
poor) who are disproportionately affected. 
 
An analysis of the cost of environmental degradation shows that the most significant 
environmental costs to the country are associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and 
hygiene, and ambient and indoor air pollution.
1
The burden of these costs falls most heavily on 
poor children under the age of five.  The cost of impacts associated with these principal causes is 
estimated to equal about 2.8 percent of GDP, mainly from increased mortality and morbidity 
caused by waterborne diseases (particularly diarrheal illness), respiratory infection, and 
cardiopulmonary disease. 
 
1
Larsen, Bjorn (2004). “Cost of Environmental Degradation:  A Socio-Economic and Environmental Health Risk 
Assessment.” 
Page  2
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed development policy loan (DPL) is the second in an expected series of three quick-
d
isbursing loans aimed at supporting the government of Colombia’s interdisciplinary sustainable 
development program and its efforts to move toward achievement of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), particularly Goal 7 which seeks to ensure environmental 
sustainability. Specifically, the program has the following objectives: (i) improving the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental System (SINA); and (ii) integrating 
principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on protecting 
the most vulnerable groups. 
 
In particular, SusDevDPL II includes the following prior actions: (i) establishing a baseline in 
Regional Autonomous Corporations (CAR) and Department jurisdictions to monitor six 
sustainable development objectives linked to the MDGs; (ii) approving a package of reforms to 
improve administration, planning, and management of water resources; (iii) implementing an 
action plan to improve laboratory accreditation and dissemination of water quality monitoring 
protocols; (iv) implementing a technical assistance program to close at least 75 open dumps 
(more than 200 have been closed to date); (v) establishing, validating, and applying a consistent 
protocol for air quality monitoring based on an analysis of monitoring networks; and (vi) 
developing an emissions inventory protocol for fixed and mobile sources and initiating 
implementation of the protocol in major urban centers. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
To address the challenges of environmental degradation, the Colombian government has 
embarked on an extensive environmental reform program, outlined in its 2006-2010 National 
Development Plan (PND). The objectives of this reform program are to (i) ensure that integrated 
water management takes into consideration the country’s ecosystems, productive processes, 
natural resources, and human needs, as well as the social, economic, and cultural aspects of 
development; (ii) reduce vulnerability among the poor and create opportunities to improve 
quality of life and public health; (iii) take advantage of economic opportunities while protecting 
and conserving natural resources; and (iv) promote conservation and sustainable development to 
preserve the benefits and services that the environment provides.   
 
Many of the strategies and reforms included in the PND’s environmental reform program build 
on the groundwork of the Sustainable Development DPL Program’s first operation and are fully 
aligned with the actions supported under the second operation and planned for the third 
operation.  The first operation focused on the initial steps of building a results-based framework 
for planning and monitoring progress toward sustainable development goals, improving 
interinstitutional coordination mechanisms, and beginning to prepare critical decrees.  The 
second operation focuses on the development and passage of sustainable development policies, 
while the third focuses on the results of implementing those policies. 
 
Page  3
4. Financing 
 
The second operation (SusDevDPL II) will provide US$200 million in financing, which will be 
disbursed in a single tranche upon loan effectiveness.  The timing of the third operation will be 
based on the pace of the Colombian government
’s progress in implementing the actions agreed 
in the DPL Program. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Although the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Territorial Development (MAVDT) is 
responsible for coordinating actions under SusDevDPL II, implementation of the program’s 
actions is a shared responsibility among the National Planning Department (DNP), other line 
ministries, CARs, Urban Environmental Authorities (AAUs), and research institutes. MAVDT, 
however, has primary responsibility for reporting progress on the program’s implementation. 
A
Bank team will supervise SusDevDPL II with a particular emphasis on ascertaining whether 
the government is carrying out the program with a focus on development impact and due 
diligence to achieve development objectives in conformity with the legal agreements. Bank staff 
will assess and monitor the adequacy of the institutional arrangements by which the Colombian 
government implements the actions indicated in the Policy Matrix, and verify fulfillment of 
program actions and compliance with legal covenants. The Bank team will focus on the impact 
outcomes of the program and the adjustments that need to be made to the operation as it evolves, 
to take into account the latest country developments, stakeholder support, and feasible options 
for realizing the program development goals. The Bank team will monitor actions and review the 
implementation progress of SusDevDPL II, as well as subsequent actions in the government’s 
program. Before proceeding with SusDevDPL III, the Bank team will assess the Colombian 
government’s progress in implementing the expected actions for the third operation. 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The Sustainable Development DPL Program improves environmental management, particularly 
in urban areas.  The program supports developing a results-based framework for planning and 
monitoring progress of the SINA toward goals directly linked with sustainable development and 
achievement of the MDGs; improvements in interinstitutional coordination and increased public 
participation in decisionmaking; and preparation of critical policies and reforms related to air 
quality, water quality, solid waste management, and environmental licensing. 
 
Several risks have been identified:  (i) fiscal pressures, in which external or internal shocks may 
cause the fiscal situation to deteriorate, thereby jeopardizing the macroeconomic situation; (ii) 
institutional risks, given that special interest groups may oppose certain reform processes; and 
(iii) political risks internal to MAVDT due to a high turnover rate of the ministry’s senior 
officials.  Throughout the reform program, however, several actions are being undertaken to 
mitigate these risks, including (i) providing active, visible support to the government’s proposed 
fiscal and public sector reforms; (ii) institutional strengthening of SINA institutions, including 
the National Planning Department, to support consensus building in environmental 
decisionmaking within priority sectors; (iii) supporting an enhanced communications strategy 
and greater public participation for the environment sector; and (iv) anchoring the formulation of 
sustainable development strategies to help build consensus among different stakeholders.  
Page  4
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The operation is expected to have a significantly positive poverty and social impact. In general 
terms, improvements in environmental sustainability are expected to benefit the poor. As 
described below, the poor are the segment of the population most at risk from the impacts of 
environmental degradation, particularly in terms of health and productivity. Waterborne bacterial 
diseases and ambient and indoor air pollution pose the highest costs, equaling approximately 2 
percent of GDP, due primarily to increased child morbidity and mortality. Diarrhea, which 
accounts for approximately 7.3 percent of child mortality, is the most common and widespread 
waterborne disease and is most prevalent in rural zones populated by the poorest segments of the 
population. And although the rate of diarrheal illness in Colombia is slightly higher in rural areas 
that in urban centers, the total number of cases in urban areas is more than twice that of rural 
areas (Larsen 2004).  In fact, there are approximately 2.9 cases of diarrheal illness per child each 
year. Air pollution is also a significant problem, with particulate matter alone responsible for an 
estimated 6,000 premature deaths and 7,400 new cases of chronic bronchitis in Colombia every 
year. Therefore, the poor are expected to benefit in the form of improved environmental and 
health conditions that increase their potential for more productive work days and better quality of 
life. SusDevDPL II will help the government address these environmental health risks through 
monitoring of the air pollutants that are most harmful to public health, implementation of 
emissions inventories, and development of policy guidelines to improve both water and fuel 
quality.  In addition, the operation aims to ensure that the most vulnerable segments of society 
have a seat at the table with respect to the design and implementation of policies that affect them. 
The policies and reforms supported by this operation are also expected to have significant 
positive impacts on the environment by fostering improved environmental governance and urban 
environmental management.  Since the 
r
aiseon d’etre
 of the operation itself is to support the 
government in mainstreaming environmental considerations into a number of key sectors, the 
operation’s design is proactive with respect to internalizing environmental concerns.  This occurs 
at distinct levels.  At the sectoral level, three policy-based Strategic Environmental Assessments 
have supported the integration of environmental concerns into the process of developing sectoral 
policies for water, mining, and transport and have facilitated interinstitutional agreements and 
commitments among various stakeholders to better address cross-sectoral environmental 
concerns such as water and fuel quality.  Other positive impacts on the environment are expected 
to derive from improved environmental management at the national and local levels, in which 
the program places emphasis on assuring improved transparency and accountability with respect 
to governmental oversight and decisionmaking. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Juan Carlos Belausteguigoitia 
Lead Environmental Economist 
Sustainable Development Department 
World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C., 20433 
Tel: (202) 473-8809 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Page  5
Email: jbelausteguigoit@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
