Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2780 
Operation Name 
Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan for Sustainable 
Development 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (35%);Health 
(35%);General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P095877 
Borrower(s) 
GOV OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
NATL PLANNING DEPT (DNP) & MINISTRY OF 
ENVIRONMENT (MAVDT) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 8, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 12, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 7, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Environmental degradation disproportionately affects poor people’s health and productivity and thus, 
reduces welfare and enhances inequality.  On a global scale, lack of access to clean water and sanitation, 
inadequate hygiene, and indoor air pollution are among the principal causes of illness and death, 
predominantly affecting children and women in poor families.  Modern hazards such as urban air 
pollution and exposure to hazardous wastes add to these traditional risks.  The five highest 
environmental problems in terms of the cost of environmental degradation for Colombia amount to 3.7 
percent of GDP.  These costs are mainly linked to increased mortality and morbidity and decreased 
productivity associated with the following environmental issues:  (i) inadequate water supply, sanitation, 
and hygiene; (ii) natural disasters; (iii) poor urban air quality; (iv) soil erosion and salinization; and (v) 
poor indoor air quality in rural households, resulting from the use of fuel wood. 
 
The proposed development policy loan (DPL) is the second in an expected series of three quick-
disbursing loans aimed at supporting the government of Colombia’s interdisciplinary sustainable 
development program and its efforts to move towards achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), particularly Goal 7 which seeks to ensure environmental sustainability.  Furthermore, by 
addressing urban environmental issues affecting the most vulnerable segments of the population (e.g., 
air pollution, and inadequate water supply, sanitation, and hygiene), the program supports achievement 
of Goal 4 which seeks to reduce child mortality by addressing principal threats to children under five 
(e.g., morbidity and mortality related to respiratory illnesses and diarrheal diseases).  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overarching objective of the Sustainable Development DPL Program (comprising of three 
operations, SusDevDPL I, SusDevDPL II, and SusDevDPL III) is to support the government’s efforts to 
move towards achievement of the MDGs, particularly Goal 7.  Specifically, the program has the 
following objectives:  (i) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental 
System (SINA); and (ii) integrating principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a 
particular emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable groups. 
 
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
 
The general programmatic framework for this operation is given by the policy matrix that was 
developed during preparation of the SusDevDPL I. This matrix consists of two broad thematic areas, 
namely improving the effectiveness and efficiency of SINA, and integrating principles of sustainable 
development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable groups.  
While the first operation focused on developing a results-based framework for planning and monitoring 
progress of the SINA towards goals linked with sustainable development and achievement of the MDGs, 
improving inter-institutional coordination mechanisms, increasing public participation in decision-
making processes, and initiating preparation of reforms related to water resources management, air 
quality, solid waste management, and environmental licensing, the second operation focuses on building 
upon these reforms through the development and passage of sustainable development policies. 
 
In particular, the SusDevDPL II includes the following actions (i) preparation of guidelines for a 
national strategy on environmental health; (ii) establishment of a monitoring baseline in the ten most-
populated Regional Autonomous Corporations (CARs) with respect to six sustainable development 
objectives linked to the MDGs; (iii) conducting three policy-based Strategic Environmental Assessments 
(SEAs) relating to water resources management, environmental health, and fuel quality; (iv) adequate 
functioning of SINA working group, demonstrated by improvements in the linkages between national 
and regional priorities; (v) implementation of a new environmental licensing scheme; (vi) execution of a 
plan to strengthen the design, monitoring, and execution of environmental policies within DNP and 
MAVDT; (vii) design and approval of a national policy relating to control of water pollution;  (viii) 
implementation of a technical assistance program to close at least 75 open dumps; (ix) implementation 
of a new regulation for the final disposal of solid waste, which includes the development of norms and 
guidelines for the closure of open dumps; (x) development of a consistent protocol for air quality 
monitoring; and (xi) issuance of norms on air quality, which support a new air pollution control scheme, 
among other actions. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The pro
ject is unlikely to cause a negative impact on the country’s environment and natural resources, 
but rather plays an important role in facilitating the mainstreaming of environmental considerations in 
key sectors in Colombia and in the country’s overall approach to development.   In particular, the project 
takes a pragmatic approach to supporting the government of Colombia’s efforts to achieve the MDGs 
through:  (i) improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Environmental System (SINA); 
and (ii) integrating principles of sustainable development into key sectors, with a particular emphasis on 
protecting the most vulnerable groups. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 
   0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
Page  3
The proposed US$200 million SusDevDPL II is expected to be disbursed in a single tranche upon Board 
approval.   
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Juan Carlos Belausteguigoitia 
Title: Lead Environmental Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8809 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: jbelausteguigoit@worldbank.org
 
