Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7456-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Development Policy Loan 
for Sustainable Development) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 5, 2007 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7456-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (
“Borrower”) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) 
for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) 
the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty 
days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
Page  3
-
2
-
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered 
a
“Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as provided 
for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has determined that a 
situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as provided 
for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has determined that the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the Bank, 
become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as provided 
for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has determined that an action 
has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or policy under 
the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect 
the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on December 8, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
MINHACIENDA 
   (571) 
350-9344 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Mariana Pacheco 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has established a monitoring baseline in all CARs and 
Departamentos
,
based on six (6) development objectives set forth in Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 1200 of April 20, 
2004. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to improve administration, planning and 
management of water resources: 
 
(a) 
issued Presidential Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 1480, of May 4, 2007, modifying its 
watershed management scheme to improve the development and implementation 
of watershed management plans by the CARs; 
 
(b) 
issued Presidential Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 1324, of April 19, 2007, establishing a 
water uses and water users registry to provide legal security to users and to 
improve the administration of water resources; 
 
(c) 
issued Presidential Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 1323, of April 19, 2007, establishing a 
water information system with defined national and regional management 
responsibilities; 
 
(d) 
submitted to the Borrower’s Congress 
Proyecto de Ley
 (Proposed Bill of Law) 
No.201-2007 for the 2006-2010 National Development Plan; 
 
(e) 
issued, through MAVDT, Directive (
Directiva
)
No.2000-2-111598 of November 
17, 2006, ordering CARs to establish a water account systems to track collection 
and use of water fees; and 
 
(f) 
submitted, through MAVDT a proposal to the 
Programa de Renovación de la 
Administración Pública
 to establish a water resource management office within 
MAVD
T’s vice ministry of environment. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has implemented an action plan to improve laboratory accreditation and 
dissemination of water quality monitoring protocols pursuant to the 
Acta
 No.01 of April 20, 2007 
between MADVT and IDEAM. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has closed at least 200 open garbage dumps. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has established, validated and applied a consistent protocol for air quality 
monitoring in four (4) city air quality networks. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
6. The 
Borrower 
has: 
 
(a) 
established an emissions inventory protocol for fixed and mobile sources; and 
 
(b) 
started implementation of said protocol in five (5) selected cities. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
$200,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
$200,000,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted fo
r
in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is January 31, 2008. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage of the 
total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Pri
ncipal Payment Date (“Installment 
Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each 
Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct 
any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Principal Payment Dates 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 Beginning: 
 
 
February 15, 2013 to August 15, 2013 
 
February 15, 2016 to August 15, 2019 
 
February 15, 2020 to August 15, 2021 
 
February 15, 2022 to August 15, 2023 
 
10% 
 
5% 
 
7.5% 
 
2.5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
Page  10
-
9
-
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CARs” means 
Corporaciones Autónomas Regionales
,
the Borrower’s regional 
autonomous corporations established pursuant to Law No. 99 of 1993 with the objective 
to assist in the implementation of the Borrower’s environmental policy at the regional 
level. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the modifications 
set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. “IDEAM” means 
Instituto de Hidrología, Meteorología y Estudios Ambientales
,
the 
Borrower’s Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies; 
 
5. “MAVDT” means 
Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda y Desarrollo Territorial
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment, Housing and Regional Development. 
 
6. “MHCP” 
means 
Ministerio
 de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
7. 
“National Development Plan” means 
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo
,
the Borrower’s plan 
for implementation (2006-2010) which sets forth national purposes, objectives, goals, 
priorities, actions and strategies of the Borrower’s economic, social and environmental 
policy to be adopted by the Borrower’s government. 
 
8.  “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated April 23, 2007 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the continued execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the 
“International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“
‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of 
the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
