Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14579
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2422-JM)
JUNE 7, 1995
Country Department III
Infrastructure Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica and NWC: April 1 = March 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(US$ 1.0 = J$ equivalent)
Official Rate  (1983)              =    J$ 1.78
Official Parallel Rate  (1983) =    J$ 2.90
Currency Rate  (June 1987)         =    J$ 5.50
Currency Rate  (Jan 1991)          =    J$ 8.19
Currency Rate  (Dec 1991)          =    J$20.5
WEIGHTS and MEASURES
British/US Units       Metric Equivalents
1 inch (in)      =    2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)      =    0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)      =     1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2) =    2.589 sq. km.
1 acre           =    0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 imperial gallon    =    4.454 liters (1)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
ldc        liters per day per capita
GOJ        Government of Jamaica
JNIC       Jamaica National Investment Company
KMA        Kingston Metropolitan Area
MTPF       Medium Term Policy Framework
NIBJ       National Investment Bank of Jamaica
NWA        National Water Authority
NWC        National Water Commission
PSIP       Public Sector Investment Program
UAW        Unaccounted for Water
WC         (Kingston) Water Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                                   June 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Jamaica Water Supply and Sewerage & Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2422-JM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Water Supply and Sewerage & Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2422-JM) prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region (Parts I and III). Part II, contributed by the borrower, details
implementation difficulties and practical lessons and provides recommendations for future operations.
The implementing agency for the project was the National Water Commission (NWC), the
organization in charge of water supply and sewerage for Kingston and bulk supply to rural areas. Technical
assistance was provided for improvement of NWC's financial, commercial, institutional and operational
capabilities, and to ensure that integration of Parish Council water supply systems within NWC be
accomplished in an orderly manner. The project also sought to reduce the sector's dependence on
Government subsidies, help eliminate bottlenecks in the Kingston area water distribution system, finance the
rehabilitation of neglected water supply and sewerage facilities, prepare a medium-term investment program
for NWC, and promote the use of low cost technology.
The project's achievements were limited due to overly ambitious objectives, lack of clear focus in
some project components (e.g., the takeover of the Parish Council water systems), difficult political and
economic conditions, and Government indecision on financial reforms. Furthermore, reconstruction
following the disastrous impact of Hurricane Gilbert diverted GOJ's attention from the implementation of this
project, resulting in chronic non-compliance of many financial covenants. Despite the high quality of
technical assistance, the project environment was characterized by considerable resistance to change within
NWC. The forced merger of the Parish Council water systems into NWC further contributed to NWC's
financial and management problems throughout the project period, leaving NWC insolvent at project
completion. A follow-up operation, if any, should focus on obtaining institutional and financial sustainability.
The project demonstrates that technical assistance is ineffective in improving institutions in the
absence of strong political comnmitment by the government to reform. A follow-on operation is under
preparation which should reintroduce key technical components necessary to nurture the evolutionary process
leading to reform.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, and the impact on institutional development as modest.
The sustainability of benefits is unlikely. NWC is still overly dependent on capital injections and subsidies to
continue operating.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality, and provides an adequate discussion of implementation experience.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2422-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .........................................                                                               i-
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... -u-
PART I: BANK'S REVIEW  . ...................................1 -
A.   Summary Project Data ................................1 -
B.      Background  and Sectoral Information .......................1 -
C.      Project Objectives and Description .........................3 -
D.   Design and Organization ...............................4 -
E.      Project Implementation ................................4 -
F.      Project Results .....................................7 -
G.      Project Sustainability .................................9 -
H.   Bank Performance ................................... -9-
1.    Borrower Performance ...............................- 1 -
J.       Project Relationships ................................ 12 -
K.      Project Documentation and Data ......................... 12 -
PART II: BORROVWER'S EVALUATION .......................... -13-
A.       Conditions Leading to the Project ........................ 13 -
B.      Main Findings and Lessons Learned ....................... 13 -
C.   Summary of Bank Role and Performance .................... 14 -
D.      Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance .................. 15 -
E.      Remaining Issues .................................. 15 -
PART m  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......................... 16-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2422-3M)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Water Supply and Sewerage
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 2422-JM, in the
amount of US$9.0 Million (M) equivalent was approved on May 22, 1984. The Loan was
suspended on July 27, 1988 and re-instated in January 1989. Loan closing was extended from
December 31, 1990 to June 30, 1993, with final disbursement made on November 10, 1993.
As of December 31, 1993, disbursements under the Loan totaled US$8,295,933.56. An
undisbursed balance of US$704,066.44 under the loan was canceled effective April 15, 1994.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country
Department 3 of the Latin America and Caribbean Region, and the Borrower (National Water
Commission), and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, the Borrowers own records, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
This report contains Part I and Im prepared by the Bank and Part I prepared by the
Borrower. The Borrower's comments on Part I were substantially incorporated. Part II reflects
the Borrower's perspective of the project's implementation achievements and related difficulties.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2422-JM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The primary objectives of the project were to strengthen NWC's financial, commercial,
institutional and operational capabilities, and to ensure that additional takeovers of parish council
water supply systems were accomplished in an orderly manner. More specifically, the project
sought to reduce the sector's dependence on Government subsidies; help eliminate bottlenecks
in the Kingston area water distribution system; rehabilitate neglected water supply and sewerage
facilities; prepare a medium-term investment program for NWC as well as feasibility studies for
extension of NWC's water and sewerage systems; and investigate and promote the use of low
cost and appropriate technology, particularly for the rural areas.
Implementation Experience
u.   In 1986 the National Water Commission (NWC) was instructed by the Government of
Jamaica (GOJ) to merge its services with those of the Parish Councils before plans for an
orderly takeover could be prepared. This had a serious impact on both the financial status of
the Commission and its operational efficiency. As a result of NWC's pre-occupation with this
merger, implementation of the project physical works components was generally slow although
steady. In the areas of institutional strengthening and financial and commercial improvements,
the merger had particularly serious deleterious effects. This, coupled with high inflation,
currency depreciation and reconstruction following the disastrous impact of Hurricane Gilbert,
resulted in chronic non-compliance with many of the project's financial covenants. A temporary
suspension of loan disbursements ensued in July of 1988, with resumption in January 1989, after
compliance covenants were fulfilled. The project closed three years late.
Sustainability
iii. The project was timely and generally fitted in well with the evolution of political thinking
with regard to operation of public enterprises. Although unwarranted interventions did occur
from time to time, the trend was to give more operating independence to NWC. Its management
and operations improved during the implementation of the project, but less than originally
anticipated. In hindsight, partially in view of the devastation created by Hurricane Gilbert, the
expectations were too high. Mostly due to the delays in Government approval for appropriate
tariff levels, the NWC continues to be in serious financial difficulties, barely able to meet



- iii -
current operating expenses. As a result maintenance of facilities constructed under the project
is delayed, and the continued use of equipment purchased is in jeopardy because of this
constraint. The improvements in NWC's management and its financial and commercial
operations realized under the project are considered to be sustainable.
Findings and Lessons Learned
iv.         Constant Government interventions and chronic financial constraints have brought
NWC to its current position of basic insolvency. Many of the findings and lessons outlined in
the Project Completion Report for the previous Bank project (Loan 1 146-JM) remain applicable,
and many of the problems which the Bank sought to redress through Loan 2422 will still require
attention in the proposed follow-on project (Water Supply and Sewerage Privatization Project).
To be fair to the project, however, many of the problems were indeed beyond the control of
either the Borrower or the Bank. The difficult political and economic environment, dramatically
high inflation (at times over 100 %/yr), and subsequent significant depreciation of the Jamaican
currency (from J$1.78 to J$30.31 to the US$ during project implementation) exacerbated many
of the problems. Procrastination by both the Government (in tariff increases, payment for
services rendered, appropriate management staffing, and timely provision of counterpart funds),
and NWC (decisions on contracts and implementation of various project components) also hurt
project progress. As a result, the project, which was scheduled to take 6 years to implement
(1984-1990), took almost 10 years.
v.    Some of the main findings arising out of implementation of Loan 2422 include the
following:
(a) The Government of Jamaica has had a powerful influence on the operations and finances
of the National Water Commission as it is a fully owned public sector enterprise. In the
past ten years this influence has often crippled the institution. For the NWC to be
successful, the government needs to wholly divorce itself from NWC control.
Privatization offers a very realistic alternative;
(b) The financial position of NWC has eroded to the point where it is currently insolvent.
This is as much a result of problems caused by the government, as those resulting from
previous mis-management and inefficiency. Insufficient revenue has hampered the
Commission's ability to service the island's demand for potable water and has impacted
both the quality and level of service in those areas it presently covers. Attention to
financial performance is critical, and the NWC must focus its efforts on this issue if it
hopes to have continued support from donor agencies. But in addition, the Commission
has come to the point where internal efforts cannot hope to reverse the current downward
trend, without a parallel infusion of both funds and approvals to raise revenues from the
government; and
(c) The inability of NWC to hire and retain quality staff, both at the management and the
working levels, has been critical to the Commission's performance. The recent infusion



- iv -
of experienced personnel at the management level in particular, is evidence of the impact
that qualified personnel can make (such as in the financial department and in the
computerization efforts). Keeping this staff will be a challenge. A continued effort to
recruit appropriate personnel both at the management and technical levels, and ensure
those hired remain, is the key if the Commission is to attain a higher level of efficiency.
vi.          The main lessons learned include the following:
(a) The introduction of significant institutional and financial changes into a bureaucratic
environment takes time and political commitment. It is an evolutionary process which
works best if allowed to build upon itself and cannot proceed faster than the political
environment allows. The re-introduction of certain key technical components which
nourish this evolution by strengthening the focus is not only commendable but also
realistic.
(b) In those cases where the Borrower lacks capacity to implement certain aspects of the
project, an appropriate level of technical assistance needs to be provided. However,
technical assistance projects by their very nature need to be more closely monitored and
supervised than traditional ones, because the focus is on changing mindsets and attitudes
concerning the method of doing business, which often meets with more resistance than
occurs with the introduction of technological changes. As a result they need to be
applied over longer periods.
(c) Major institutional or financial changes need detailed planning and sufficient monitoring
to ensure successful implementation. The government's decision to have NWC takeover
the water supply services from the Parish Councils, for example, was hurried, with
insufficient budgetary support and advanced planning, and an unfortunate focus on
political expediency. The lessons learned from the Commission's merger with the
National Water Authority (in 1978) were lost in the exercise.
(d) Water tariff increases need to be divorced from the political system of decision making.
In order for rates to accurately reflect the cost of production and delivery of services,
there needs to be an automatic annual adjustment mechanism which does not require
political approval. Even where the political system is sensitive to rate changes the
approval process, which is time consuming and dependent on political will at the moment
of submission, can take too long and is often amended too late, resulting in a continuous
financial shortfall.
(e) A well functioning commercial operation is essential, with comprehensive metering of
customers of particular importance to a water company such as NWC. The loss of
billable revenue has been significant, growing steadily for the past decade, from an
estimated 60% unaccounted for water (UAW) in 1986 (estimated at J$231 M) to 70%
in 1993 (totaling an estimated J$546 M). A large share of this UAW has been attributed
to insufficient metering.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2422-JM)
PART I: BANK'S REVIEW
A.   Summary Project Data
Project Name: Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project
Loan Number:            2422-JM
RVP Unit:               Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:                Jamaica
Sector:                 Urban
Subsector:              Water Supply & Sewerage
Loan Amount:            US$9.OM
Disbursement:           US$8,295,933.56
President Report:       05/84
Approval Date:          05/22/84
Effective Date:         09/05/84
Loan Suspension:        07/27/87
Loan Re-instatement:    01/01/88
Cancelled Loan Amount:   US$704,066.44
Original Closing Date:  12/31/90
Amended Closing Date:    06/30/93
Extensions:             2
Estimated Project Cost:    US$12.0M
Actual Project Cost:    US$11.75M
B.   Background and Sectoral Information
1.         Jamaica is a relatively small country in the Caribbean, with a total of about
11,000 sq.km. and a strong natural resource base. Its population of approximately 2.4 million
people (1990) has a modest natural population increase (around 1.9% per annum) with about
55 % of this total living in the capital area of Kingston. Jamaica's principal economic activities
include manufacturing, tourism, agriculture and bauxite/alumina mining and processing.



Notwithstanding a relatively well educated and skilled labor force, the country has faced
significant emigration (estimated at about 50 % of skilled graduates in the period 1980-85 alone),
which has seriously depleted skills levels. Even though Jamaica has exhibited improving health
and nutrition conditions, and modest population growth rates, it has experienced sporadic real
economic growth since independence, and only since the later 1980s has per capita income begun
to rise with some regularity.
2.          Over the period 1980-85, the economy of Jamaica continued the decline begun
in the early 1970s, with GDP averaging -0.9% per annum under serious fiscal and balance of
payments difficulties, labor unrest, stop and go stabilization and adjustment policies, and a heavy
external debt service. The resultant poor performance led to the cancellation in 1986 of the
1984 IMF Standby Agreement, the suspension of Bank lending, and a halt to debt re-scheduling.
DespiLe the devastating effects of Hurricane Gilbert in 1988, the economy recovered modestly
over the period 1986-91 as GDP growth averaged 3.9%, marked by renewed stabilization and
the progressive adoption of market-oriented policy reforms begun in the early 1980s. It has
taken Jamaica the better part of twenty years to reach the point where it is now comfortable with
its own heritage and accomplishments and ready to become an active participant in the global
economy.
Policy Context and Organization of the Water Sector
3.          In 1978 the Kingston Water Commission (KWC), which was responsible for water
supply and sewerage operations in the Kingston Metropolitan Area (KMA), merged with the
National Water Authority (NWA), which was responsible for water services provided by the
Parish Councils, as well as rural bulk water supply. But the merger was fraught with difficulty,
so in 1982 the Government, through the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), and with
fmance assistance from USAID, hired consultants to prepare a management audit of the new
organization. the National Water Commission (NWC). This was followed by the recruitment
of a Technical Assistance Team, initially financed by the Jamaican Government to advise the
Commission's senior managers. By 1984 (when Loan 2422 was appraised), the NWC was still
recovering from difficulties encountered in the 1978 merger, but the prognosis for resolution of
outstanding issues was good. There were still major staffing and institutional problems however,
with the workforces from the two entities continuing to maintain their different working
conditions and separate unions. This resulted in continuous friction at all levels. The merger
also contributed to the worsening of the Commission's financial position, as the struggling NWC
had to absorb the cost of NWA' s operations which had been highly subsidized in the past. Then
in 1986 the NWC was instructed to merge its operations with that of the water supply facilities
of the Parish Councils. Although there was a plan for an orderly take over, it was not
implemented. As a result, recovery from this amalgamation took just about as long as it had
with the previous one. With these mergers NWC became the sole organization responsible for
the production and distribution of potable water in Jamaica.



-3-
Bank Context
4.          The Bank's first project in the sector, the Kingston Water Supply Project (Loan
598), dates back to 1969. The focus of this project was on introducing improvements in
Kingston's transmission and distribution facilities, as well as the development of underground
sources from wells and springs. The second sector project (approved in 1976), the Kingston
Sewerage I and Water Supply Project (Loan 1146), continued the work begun previously,
focusing on further improvements in water supply and sewerage but re-directing some of its
attention to institution building. The 1978 merger constrained the Bank's ability to fully realize
the institutional objectives designed under the project, while a lack of counterpart funds delayed
the implementation of the sewerage component well into the latter half of the 1980s. The Bank's
third and last project (approved in 1984), evolved directly from these previous Bank
undertakings, with a renewed emphasis on institution building and financial solvency.
5.          Broadly speaking, current Bank assistance strategy for Jamaica as a whole,
including the water and sewerage, concentrates  on supporting the objectives and policies
highlighted in the Medium Term Policy Framework (MTPF), prepared by the Government
with Bank assistance, the associated Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Improvement in private sector confidence and the
expansion of private investment are among the key issues. The Bank's recent Private Sector
Development Adjustment Loan (Loan 3622) and SECAL focus not only on macroeconomic
stability but also on the development of an efficient private sector.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
6.          The primary objectives of the Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2422) were to strengthen NWC's financial. commercial,
institutional and operational capabilities, and to ensure that additional takeovers of Parish
Council water supply systems were accomplished in an orderly manner. More specifically, the
project sought to reduce the sector's dependence on Government subsidies; help eliminate
bottlenecks in the Kingston area water distribution system; rehabilitate neglected water supply
and sewerage facilities; prepare a medium-term investment program for NWC as well as
feasibility studies for extension of NWC's water and sewerage systems; and investigate and
promote the use of low cost and appropriate technology, particularly for the rural areas.
Description
7.          The Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
was to have a six year implementation period (1984-90) with the following components:
(a) Implementation of a Management Improvement Program (32 % of project cost)
comprising technical assistance,installation of uniform cost accounting, inventory control,



financial systems, modernized billing system, and purchase of micro-computers. A
Tariff study was also to be prepared;
(b) Support Facilities Improvement and Rehabilitation (23 % of project costs) comprising
the upgrading of workshops, stores and offices at Marescaux Road, Kingston,
procurement of trucks, water pumps and spare parts, chlorination equipment and
emergency power generators;
(c) Kingston Water Distribution and System Management Improvements (7 % of project
cost), including remodeling and refurbishing of system mapping facilities, supply and
updating of system maps, development of a computer model of the distribution system,
and a program to reduce unaccounted-for-water;
(d) Kingston Water Transmission Improvements (18% of project costs); and
(e) Kingston Sewer System Operations Upgrading (20% of project costs), including
restoration and rehabilitation of the principal sewage treatment facilities.
D.   Design and Organization
8.          The project was designed to continue Bank participation in the development of an
efficient water production and distribution system for Jamaica as a whole, and Kingston in
particular. It was a natural progression from the previous Bank project and the Government
sponsored, USAID financed, Management Audit of NWC. The institutional and financial
strengthening components which had been introduced under the Kingston Sewerage I and Water
Supply project, became the main components in the Water Supply and Sewerage Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation project. The project was implemented by the National Water
Commission (NWC), the organization which resulted from the merger of the (Kingston) Water
Commission and the National Water Authority (para 3), the former of which implemented the
previous loan (Loan  1146).   Consultants assisted the NWC  throughout the project
implementation period but paiticularly during the first two years.
E.   Project Implementation
9.          There was considerable resistance to change during project execution. Initially
there was resistance to the proposals under the Technical Assistance (TA) component of the
project by NWC's senior management, most of whom came from the former NWA. Then in
January 1986 these managers were released by the government and the TA team put in charge
temporarily, until such time as experienced Jamaicans could be recruited. This made it possible
to introduce a number of reforms including; photo IDs; updating of personnel files and cross-
checking these files between payroll and personnel; a new payroll system; comprehensive job
descriptions; materials management; and the contracting out of a number of activities.
Contracting out of the customer accounts and billing system was in its trial phase (in 1986)



when the Government instructed NWC to cancel the contract and use the Government computer
service (FISCAL). The main reason was to optimize the use of a new mainframe computer
bought by the Government. Implementation of the Government's computer service proved to
be unfortunate, ultimately resulting in a reversal of this decision (1991) and re-introduction of
external services (ICL-Fujitsu).
10.         Another major development which greatly impacted project implementation
concerned the GOJ's insistence that NWC absorb the water supply services of the Parish
Councils. This merger was premature and, as with the previous merger with NWA, poorly
planned and executed (see para 3). The operational impact of the merger has been adverse both
for NWC and the Parish Councils and undoubtedly contributed the current financial situation of
NWC. As a result of NWC's pre-occupation with this merger and its increasing problems with
collection and bitting, implementation of the physical works components lagged, as did those
components focusing on institutional strengthening and financial and commercial improvements.
11.         The GOJ's preoccupation with the cost of the TA, resulted in the premature
phasing out of this component after the recruitment of Jamaican managers in 1987. Compared
with the successes of the prolonged TA which was provided to the Power Company under a
Bank loan, hindsight suggests that a much longer TA period was needed to achieve the
envisioned results.  Coupled with high inflation, currency devaluation and a focus on
reconstruction following the disastrous impact of Hurricane Gilbert, NWC's fortunes continued
to steadily deteriorate in the mid-1980s, resulting in chronic non-compliance of many of the
project's financial covenants.
12.         On July 27, 1988 the Bank officially suspended disbursements to the NWC
because of its continuous and serious non-compliance of loan covenants. This was the first such
suspension of Bank loans in Jamaica. To rectify the situation an action programn was drawn up
by the Bank and the Borrower in an attempt to avoid loan cancellation. The Borrower co-
operated in complying with the action program, and as a result the suspension was lifted in
January 1989. This prompted the first extension of loan closing from December 30, 1990 to
June 30, 1992. During that period the NWC managed to improve its rate of implementation of
both physical components (energy audit, procurement of radio equipment, design of mapping
systems) and institutional ones (interim financial management system, fixed assets evaluation),
but not enough to avoid a second loan extension. Loan closing was extended to June 30, 1993
to allow for the substantial completion of all of the physical project elements.
13.         Throughout the project period the NWC continued to be incapable of complying
with most of the financial covenants of the loan. During much of this time it was pre-occupied
with generating improvements in its financial management and billing systems, with the result
that these activities took up both most of the time and finances allocated to the project.
14.         Management Improvement Program: A fair amount of technical assistance was
provided in the area of financial management. An interim financial information system (FIS)
was implemented, as was the DSI-FSL and later the ICL Billing systems. Assistance was



- 6 -
provided for the auditing of financial statements as well as preliminary engineering and design
reviews for several major projects in Ocho Rios, Montego Bay and Negril, and preliminary and
detailed engineering for water and waste water systems. Technical assistance was also provided
in a line function capacity with the establishment of an Information Systems Unit within NWC.
Finally a number of studies were conducted under this component including: an Accounts
Receivable Study and a Kingston Harbor Pollution Management Study. Originally estimated to
account for 32 % of project costs, this component alone ultirnately accounted for over 66%.
15.         Support Facilities Improvement & Rehabilitation: Under this component the
site development plan for the Morescaux Road Complex was completed for the small items
store facility, including the design and operation for upgrading the stores facilities. Special
chlorine trucks were procured as part of the project as was a vehicular fleet, emergency
generators, and energy efficient equipment and tools. Workshop, stores and office upgrading
was completed along with pump rehabilitation and standardization. Actual costs accounted for
11% of project costs as compared to the appraisal estimate of 23 %.
16.         Kingston Water Distribution System: The NWC encountered several difficulties
in securing appropriate cost estimates for the introduction of the communications and computer
system under this component, however, it was completed by closing. Included in this activity
were extensive investigations concerning the appropriate methodology for the preparation of up-
to-date base maps on which an inventory could be developed for various above ground and
below ground assets. This component ultimately accounted for 16% of project costs compared
to the appraisal estimate of 7%.
17.         Kingston Water Transmission Improvement: Major pressure reducing valves
(PRVs), which provide primary regulation for the pressure zones within the system were
identified and procured. Originally estimated to account for 7 % of project costs, this component
actually accounted for 8 %.
18.         Kingston Sewerage System Operations Upgrading:  Under this component
detailed designs were developed for the East Kings House Trunk Sewer extension and inter
connection to the Somerset Gully interception trunk. Ultimately this component accounted for
8 % of project costs as compared to the appraisal estimate of 20 %.
19.         Procurement:  All goods and services were procured following the Bank's
guidelines. Contracts for consulting services (20), supplies and equipment were awarded to both
local and foreign firms. Local firms won all the civil works contracts. As indicated above,
procurement was slow throughout the project but in particular during those periods of inactivity
caused by loan suspension and reconstruction following Hurricane Gilbert. In addition, all
procurement was subject to delays caused by cumbersome procedures, slow decision making,
and difficulties concerning the allocation of counterpart funds.
20.         Project Costs: Estimated project costs at the time of appraisal amounted to
US$12.0 M, with US$9.0 M allocated to foreign costs and US$3.0 M to local costs. Actual



- 7 -
total costs amounted to US$11.75M, with US$8.3 M foreign and US$3.4 M local. There were
two components which experienced particularly large cost over-runs: the first was the
Management Improvement Component where costs rose from an appraisal estisnate of US$2.8
M to an actual cost of US$7.7 M (a cost over-run of over 100%); and the second occurred in
the Kingston Water Distribution System Management Improvement component where costs rose
from an appraisal estimate of US$650,000 to an actual cost of US$825,000 (a cost over-run of
27%). All of the other main components registered cost under-runs, in some cases these were
significant. The cost over-runs in both management improvement categories further emphasizes
the fact that to achieve significant results technical assistance takes both time and money. Even
though at the outset the technical assistance components were scaled down by the GOJ,
ultimately a shifting of funds into this area was required to achieve any reasonable level of
success.
21.         Project Disbursements: Disbursements were slow during the entire project
period. They were suspended in July of 1988 (see para. 12) and re-instated only in January of
1989. As a result of various impacts the project closed three years late, with final disbursements
amounting to US$8.3 million.
F.    Project Results
22.         Main Project Results: Development of the water supply and sanitation sector
in Jamaica is basically in line with experience internationally, with the project resulting in
substantial improvements in the management and operations of NWC. However, it should be
noted that these changes took time to take effect because the domestic climate was not prepared
for quick acceptance, both at the national and local levels. The sector has, and is, continuing
to evolve from a heavily bureaucratic and fragmented one to one more commercially oriented,
focused and independent. Management of an entity of this size also needs experienced staff to
attain this orientation. The sector continues to be constrained by timely tariff increases (due
mainly to government flfibustering), a general lack of adequate financial resources, organization
and management deficiencies, and inadequately trained and motivated staff. These financial and
management deficiencies have inhibited the investment and proper preventative maintenance of
the water and sewerage operations, and have engendered severe environmental damage and
insufficient supply of water to satisfy demand. Although it has also impacted the implementation
of Loan 2422, this loan as well as the follow-on initiative has endeavored to address many of
the issues raised, and succeeded in introducing significant improvements in administration,
organization and financial as well as commercial activities. One of these improvements has
included an institutional re-organization, whose focus is on commercial viability, organizational
effectiveness and profitability. Although NWC continues to struggle to attract and retain
experienced and qualified staff, an appropriate common framework has been introduced which
should finally allow for a successful resolution of many of the issues raised during the mergers
of both 1978 and 1986.
23.         Fnancial Performance: Adequate funding of NWC has been the company's
main handicap since creation. As a result the loan's financial covenant (4.03) which requires



- 8 -
NWC to generate adequate revenue to cover operating costs, working capital, debt service and
provision for capital expenditure, has not been met. In addition, problems with methodologies
used in keeping accounts has also resulted in chronic non-compliance with section 4.02 of the
loan covenant, which deals with records maintenance of accounting practices, and requires NWC
to furnish the Bank with timely audited financial statements. Practically all audits for Loan 2422
have contained qualified statements. Other financial covenants which have not been fulfilled
include: 4.04, which deals with the ratio of total working expenses to total operating revenue;
4.05, which concerns the issue of debt; and section 4.06, which concerns inventory of fixed
assets. Although NWC's financial performance since the implementation of Loan 2422 has been
weak, there have, however, been some noteworthy improvements in its financial and commercial
activities including: the introduction of a single accounting system for all activities; introduction
of micro-computers for financial planning, budgeting and several small accounting operations;
the computerization of billing and accounting functions using private systems; a more appropriate
budgeting process; and overall tightening of financial controls. The most significant of these
accomplishments is the computerization of billing and accounting functions. The service
contract signed with Fujitsu-ICL in 1991 to computerize billing, accounting, payroll, purchasing
and stock control is improving NWC's efficiency and control significantly. This initiative was
originally scheduled for implementation in 1985 but was canceled in favor of the central
government computer service (FISCAL), a decision which not only cost the company dearly in
terms of time, but also resulted in a near total collapse of NWC's billing services and revenue
collection.
24.         NWC's net income generation between FY85/86-88/89 covered expenses but was
insufficient to service debt or provide for capital investment. However, since FY90/91 NWC
revenues have been unable to keep up with even operating expenses. Cumulative loses have
resulted in decapitalization, rendering the utility essentially illiquid and insolvent. An operating
loss of J$107 M and a negative cash flow of J$215 M has been projected for the FY93/94. This
poor performance is due in part to external factors, including soaring power costs (resulting from
steep increases in JPS electricity rates), a four-fold increase (since 1991) in the exchange rate
of the US dollar to the Jamaican dollar, and belated government approval of requests for tariff
increases. Although there were four tariff increases during the project implementation period
(85 % in 1986, 30% in 1990, 25 % and 100% in 1992, and the introduction of a price adjustment
mechanism in 1993 to account for about 37% of cost increases due to inflation), these were
insufficient to keep up with inflation and allow NWC to deal aggressively with their worsening
financial situation. This is even more significant because NWCs costs include a substantial
foreign exchange component. As a result, NWC has been forced to manage its liabilities
through a combination of payment rescheduling, bank overdrafts and additional borrowing from
the government (at rates in excess of 50% per annum for short-term debt). To reverse this
untenable situation NWC has proposed a financial rescue package for consideration by the
government. Partial approval was received on April 25th, but the main issues (increases in tariff
and the Price Adjustment Mechanism) have been held over, pending further review.
25.         Economic Impact: As has been the case often with technical assistance projects
in the Bank, there was no economic evaluation conducted on the project during appraisal because



benefits were considered to be too difficult to quantify. While the President's Report did not
include an economic or financial rate of return calculation, it did indicate that the project should
yield substantial economic benefits, including better utilization of existing assets and
strengthening the Government's overall fiscal position. The project was also designed so as to
make a major contribution to improving urban water supply and sanitation services for Jamaica
as a whole, and Kingston in particular. In the end the basic economic objectives were realized,
with service growing substantially. As population increased in the IMA, water production also
increased proportionately, from 55.7 mlg in 87 to 62.4 mlg in 1992. This is reflected in an
overall increase in the number of accounts, from 101,000 in 1985 to 280,000 in 1994, and
accounts receivable from J$384.7 M in 1987 to J$780.1 M in 1993. But these increases have
not been translated to improvements in NWCs financial status. This is largely due to the fact
that unaccounted for water has also significantly increased from an estimated 60 % of receivables
in 1987 (J$230.8M) to 70% in 1993 (J$546.1M).
G.   Project Sustainability
26.         The project was timely and generally fitted in well with the evolution of political
thinking with regard to the operation of public entities. Although unwarranted interventions did
occur from time to time, the trend was to give more operating independence to NWC. Its
management and operations improved during the implementation of the project, but less than
originally anticipated. The Bank had an excellent relationship with key individuals, but it could
only encourage gradual change since most of the major decisions (staffing, financial, etc.)
remained tied to the political commitment to change. The Bank was successful in re-introducing
themes from one project to the next, strengthening the focus each time, until most have fnally
been adopted. Hindsight suggests that expectations were too high. Partially this was due to the
devastations created by Hurricane Gilbert, but also because significant institutional changes take
time, and it is doubtful whether any different project or program design would have accelerated
the transforrnations which were encouraged under the loan, given both the political and economic
climate which existed at the time. Mostly due to the delays in Government approval for
appropriate tariff levels, the NWC continues to be in serious financial difficulties, barely able
to meet current operating expenses. As a result maintenance of facilities constructed under the
project is delayed, and the continued use of equipment purchased is in jeopardy because of this
constraint. The improvements in NWC's management and its financial and commercial
operations realized under the project are considered to be sustainable.
27.         The Bank's follow-on initiative, the Water Supply and Sewerage Privatization
Preparation Project is being prepared building on the achievements under the previous projects.
The purpose of the new project is to continue to improve KIMAs installations and commercial
operations, to help the Government to pursue various privatization options.
H.   Bank Performance
28.         Bank performance was basically good throughout the project cycle. It provided
a high level of input during the first two years in particular, and continued at an acceptable level



- 10 -
with a minimum of staff changes and regular supervision missions which were appropriately
staffed. The Bank also proved flexible with respect to project changes. It showed perseverance
in attaining project objectives and dealt with the issue of non-compliance in a professional
manner, assisting the Government to formulate an appropriate re-instatement action program
acceptable to the Bank. The only point of contention concerns the Bank's apparent concurrence
with the Borrower's decision to introduce the use of a government computer system (Fiscal
Services), instead of insisting that the contract for private services (which was in the process of
being implemented), be honored.
29.         The main lessons learned by the Bank in the  implementation of Loan 2422
include the following:
(a) The introduction of significant institutional and financial changes into a bureaucratic
environment takes time, political commitment, and significant follow-up on the part of
Bank staff. It is an evolutionary process which works best if allowed to build upon itself
and cannot proceed faster than the political environment allows. The re-introduction of
certain key technical components which nourish this evolution by strengthening the focus
is not only commendable but also realistic.
(b) In those cases where the Borrower lacks capacity to implement certain aspects of the
project, an appropriate level of technical assistance needs to be provided. However,
technical assistance projects by their very nature need to be more closely monitored and
supervised than traditional ones, because the focus is on changing mindsets and attitudes
concerning the method of doing business, which often meets with more resistance than
occurs with the introduction of technological changes.
(c) Major institutional or financial changes need detailed planning and sufficient monitoring
to ensure successful implementation. The government decision to have NWC takeover
the water supply services from the Parish Councils, for example, was hurried, with
insufficient advanced planning and an unfortunate focus on political expediency. The
lessons learned from the Commission's merger with the National Water Authority (in
1978) were lost in the exercise.
(d) Water tariff increases need to be divorced from the political system of decision making.
In order for rates to accurately reflect the cost of production and delivery of services,
there needs to be an automatic annual adjustment mechanism which does not require
political approval. Even where the political system is sensitive to rate changes the
approval process, which is time consuming and dependent on political will at the moment
of submission, can take too long and is often amended too late, resulting in a continuous
financial shortfall.
(e) A well functioning commercial operation is essential, with comprehensive metering of
customers of particular importance to a water company such as NWC. The loss of
billable revenue has been significant, growing steadily for the past decade, from an



- 11 -
estimated 60% unaccounted for water (UAW) in 1986 (estimated at US$231 M) to 70%
in 1993 (totaling an estimated US$546 M). A large share of this UAW has been
attributed to insufficient metering.
L     Borrower Performance
30.         During the first few years of project implementation, progress was slow but
continuous, but with the NWC merger with water supply services of the Parish Councils in 1986
the project's focus and momentum were lost. After the lifting of the Bank's suspension in
1988, and in response to reconstruction activities following Hurricane Gilbert, re-mobilization
became difficult. Provision of timely budgetary allocations of counterpart funds became
particularly difficult with the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar (from J$9.25 to J$25.0 to the
US$ in 1991 alone), high inflation (at times 100% per annum), and the government's slow
response to requests for tariff increases (usually about 1 to 2 years behind need). The project
did, however, pick up momentum again in 1991, maintaining this momentum until loan closing
in 1993.
31.         Nonetheless, Government interventions and chronic financial constraints to have
brought NWC to its current position of basic insolvency. Many of the findings and lessons
outlined in the Project Completion Report for the previous Bank project (Loan 1146) remain
applicable, and many of the problems which the Bank sought to redress through Loan 2422 will
still require attention in the proposed follow-on project (Water Supply and Sewerage
Privatization Project). To be fair to the project, however, many of the problems were indeed
beyond the control of either the Borrower or the Bank. The difficult political and economic
environment exacerbated many of the problems. Procrastination by both the Government (in
tariff increases, payment for services rendered, appropriate management staffing, and timely
provision of counterpart funds), and  NWC (decisions on contracts and implementation of
various project components) also hurt project progress. As a result, the project, which was
scheduled to take 6 years to implement (1984-1990), took almost 10 years.
32.         Some of the main findings arising out of the implementation of Loan 2422 which
reflect Borrower performance include the following:
(a)   The Government of Jamaica has had a powerful influence on the operations and
finances of the National Water Commission as it is a fully owned public sector
enterprise. In the past ten years this influence has often crippled the institution.
For the NWC to be successful, the government needs to wholly divorce itself
from NWC control. Privatization offers a very realistic alternative.
(b)   The financial position of NWC has eroded to the point where it is currently
insolvent. This is as much a result of problems caused by the government, as
those resulting from previous mis-management and inefficiency. Insufficient
revenue has hampered the Commission's ability to service the island's demand for
potable water and has impacted both the quality and level of service in those areas



- 12 -
it presently covers. Attention to financial performance is critical, and the NWC
must focus its efforts on this issue if it hopes to have continued support from
donor agencies. But in addition, the Commission has come to the point where
intemal efforts cannot hope to reverse the current downward trend, without a
parallel infusion of both funds and approvals to raise revenues from the
government; and
(c)   The inability of NWC to hire and retain quality staff, both at the management and
the working levels, has been critical to the Commission's performance. The
recent infusion of experienced personnel at the management level in particular is
evidence of the impact that qualified personnel can make (such as in the financial
department and in the computerization efforts). Keeping this staff will be a
challenge.  A continued effort to recruit appropriate personnel both at the
management and technical levels, and ensure those hired remain, is the key if the
Commission is to attain a higher level of efficiency.
J.    Project Relationships
33.         The excellent relationship that has existed between the staffs of the Borrower and
the Bank has contributed to the ultimate successful closure of the project. Although the project
was suspended, good teamwork allowed for the resolution of the issues leading to a re-
instatement of the loan.
34.         Consultants played a prominent role in project implementation, particularly at the
outset. They were first introduced as part of the USAID financed Management Audit in 1982,
with their extension subsequently financed by the Bank under Loan 2422. Eventually these
consultants were placed in charge of NWC operations after senior management was fired by the
Government in 1986. They remained until 1987, when they were replaced by qualified
Jamaicans. However, the assistance, although extensive, proved to be too short in duration to
enable the NWC to overcome one of its most critical problems (declining revenue), and as a
result this issue is being addressed once again in 1994 and in the proposed Bank follow-on
project.
K.   Project Documentation and Data
35.         Many of the financial covenants contained in the Loan Agreement proved to be
too demanding for the NWC. As a result of chronic non-compliance the loan was suspended
in 1988. Disbursements were resumed only after the government and the NWC fulfilled
requirements under a revised Action Program.
36.         Bank documentation of the project following appraisal has been incomplete, with
much of the information collected after 1988 coming from the Borrower's own files.



- 13 -
37.         Borrower documentation of the project was excellent for the period 1986-1991.
However, after that date the files are also incomplete, with no details of annual project costs
or specific activities undertaken from 1991-1993. Furthermore, because of the introduction of
a new financial system, information concerning the financial status of NWC between the years
1991-1993 has been virtually impossible to reconstruct.
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION
A.   Conditions Leading to the Project
38.        In 1975 the Bank approved Loan 1146, the Kingston Sewerage I and Water
Supply Project, whose main objective was to improve water supply and sewerage services in the
Kingston Metropolitan Area (population of 650,000). The loan became effective in 1976 after
the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) made commitments to the Water Commission (WC) to pay
sewerage subsidies and submit a plan to reschedule the Commission's debts and appoint
appropriate staff. It closed in 1983. During project implementation the WC was merged with
the National Water Authority (NWA) to become the National Water Commission (NWC). The
merger did not go well, and although the project was successful in meeting its physical
objectives, NWC's financial, organizational and managerial problems continued throughout the
implementation period. In 1982 the Jamaica National Investment Company (JNIC) was directed
to prepare a comprehensive management audit of NWC. Based on the recommendation of that
audit, an external firm (Camp, Dresser & McKee) was contracted, and a financial recovery
program for NWC put in place, including substantial tariff increases for water supply and
sewerage services, in order to fortify the management, financial and technical functions of
NWC. When in 1982 the government requested additional Bank financing for the sector, it had
by then adopted a financial plan which was to enable NWC to become financially viable within
three years. Based on these events an appraisal for the Water Supply and Sewerage Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project was carried out in early 1984, with subsequent Bank
approval given in May of that year.
B.   Main Findings and Lessons Learned
39.         During implementation of the Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance
and Rehabilitation Project, NWC was directed to merge its services with that of the Parish
Councils. The 1986/87 merger between the Parish Councils and NWC was implemented without
much planning or forethought as to its potential imnpact on either operations or finances. The
lessons learned as a result of the project span a wide spectrum and include:
(a) The need to appoint managers with expertise who are accountable for their actions.
The NWC compensation package was insufficiently attractive to secure qualified staff
with the requisite experience to enable effective and efficient management of the
Commission.



- 14 -
(b) The need to introduce good planning techniques and ensure that there is a continuity
in all management functions. There has been a rather high turnover of NWC staff,
both at the management and technical levels. This has made the planning of certain
activities as well as continuity of tasks difficult. When managers and critical staff have
left, the corporate memory has often left along with them. Not only is there a need for
adequate planning to ensure continuity, but also the introduction of appropriate transition
periods for critical staff.
(c) Privatization is one of the alternatives left to the Commission. NWC is actively
pursuing the option of privatization of all or part of its activities, to ensure both technical
and financial viability of the Commission in the future.
1..ae amount of counterpart funds which NWC or the Government can supply must
he realistic. The commitment which was made to the Bank for Loan 2422 was realistic
if the economic environment had been stable. But a depreciation of the Jamaican dollar
from J$1.78 to the USJ$ in 1984, to over J$30 in 1993, coupled with years of very high
inflation, made the task of providing the level of counterpart funds originally agreed to,
a particularly onerous task. This is especially true in light of the fact that much of this
counterpart financing was expected to come out of NWC's finances, at a time when
increases in inflation and the exchange rate, without appropriate tariff adjustments, made
such a contribution virtually impossible.
(e) Management of projects of this nature need to be contracted out, they cannot be
part of regular programs, where staff have other obligations. There were two project
managers who were given the responsibility of implementing Loan 2422. The tenure of
the first manager lasted from 1986-1991, and that of the second from 1991-93. While
the records and supervision carried out by the original project manager is laudable, that
of the second one leaves much to be desired. Reconstructing project files to 1991 has
been very easy, with excellent information available concerning the progress of the
project, including substantiating data on all aspects of project progress. However, for
the period 1991-93 information is in such disarray that determining the extent of
activities, and their costs in these final years of project implementation has been virtually
impossible.
C.   Summary of Bank Role and Performance
40.         The Bank provided very close supervision during project start-up. Nonetheless,
with the merger of the Parish Councils and the NWC, and the decision not to introduce an
independent financial computer system in favor of a government one (fiscal services), the
financial situation of NWC began to slip, resulting in serious non-compliance of the Loan's with
financial covenants. As a result disbursements were suspended between July 1987 and January
1988. However, the situation was eventually resolved and a mutually acceptable action program
was implemented to address the problems and lift the suspension.  Subsequent project



- 15 -
implementation has proceeded reasonably well and an appropriate follow-on project has been
developed.
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
41.         The 1980s saw a number of occurrences which although impacting the operations
of NWC, were outside of its control. The merger with the water supply systems of the Parish
Councils in 1986/87 introduced a tremendous strain not only on the operations of the
Commission but also on its financial position. Continued economic difficulties, high inflation
and significant depreciation of the Jamaican dollar added to the difficulties. Finally, the impact
of Hurricane Gilbert in 1988 had a long lasting and far reaching effect on all facets of NWC's
activities.
42.          During the first few years of project implementation progress was slow but
continuous. But with the merger it lost it's focus and momentum. After the lifting of the
Bank's suspension in 1988, and in response to reconstruction activities following Hurricane
Gilbert, re-mobilization became difficult. The project finally picked up momentum again in
1991, maintaining this momentum until loan closing in 1993.
E.    Remaining Issues
43.         The main issues which need to be addressed all relate to the future financial
viability of the NWC. As a result of NWC's deteriorating financial position, there is an urgent
need for Government approval of a realistic financial rescue package, including a sustainable
tariff increase which includes a restructuring of the entire tariff system.



- 16 -
PART m  STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 17 -
TABLE IA
-MACRO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
INDICATORS                     1986          1987          196i         1989          1190        1991
GOP (Constant Puices)       13.713.0      14,730.0     15,160.0      16,141.0      16,916.0    16.954.0
Pefctntage Change                              7.4          2.9           6S           4.8         0.2
Real Per Capita GOP            803.7        847.6         954.4         892.9        904.0         N/A
Pemenage Change                  0.8          5.5          12.6          -6.5          1.2        NWA
GOP (current Prices)        13,712.9      16,364.9     19,137.6      22.798.0     29,82z7      A2,367.0
Pewcntage Change                44.7          19.3         16.3          19.1         30.8        42.1
Pwcentage Change in
Consumer Price Index            10.4          8.4           8.8          17.2         29.8        80.2
(point t pcint)
Populanon Growth                 0.9          0.4           0.1           1.4          1.0         0.4
SOURCE: Stastisca Insotuta of Jarnaca
TABLE 1B
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
1987 - 1991
JAN    FEB   MAR   APR   MAY   JUN   JULY   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV   DEC  ANN.
AVG.
1987      5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50    s.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50  s.50
1988      5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50    5.50    s.50   5.50   5.50   5.50   5.50  5.50
1 989     5.50   5.50   5.50   5.54   5.40   s.54   5.63    5.91    6.05   6.50   6.50   5.50  5.76
1990      7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.00   7.45   8.50   9.20   8.20  729
1991      8.19   8.29   8.47   9.17  10.49  10.87  10.28   11.14   13.70  17.58  19.11  20.51  12.32
SOURCE: Statsdcal Institute of Jarnaica
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES
1987- 1991
.,_  .. _...................................
I,..                                           .. .....
. .     _ ,.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . ........... .
o     .  . . . 
.       ._ .    .   .    .                                                                 
,_.            ..   .   ..       .                  ...     ...    ...    ..
YEARS
SOURCE: Jamnaica PubiIc Serice Company Llmited



TADLK 2. i :  JAAICA  - POPULATIOH TRENDS, 1930-P2
Ithousandel
....................... ................................................ ............................. ............................................................... ..... ............. ........................ 
1930        1961         1962        1353        1964         1965        1956         1917        InI         139i         1910        1191         1912
POPULATION  Ibeginning oI yeor)                            2123.4    2143.1    2151.0    2218.6    2263.0    2296.3    232511                      2346.7    2315.4    2317.0    2193.0    2414.3               24)5.0
POPULATION  INCIEAS                                           13.7        31.4         37.1        44.5         33.6        28.3         20.6        . *0          2.5        34.4        122.         20.1        24.1
Natural Inaresi.                                              44.0         44.1        46.3        43.6         44.1        42.3        40.7         33.3        41.4         44.6        4714        44.4         45.4
Births                                                    5O.6        59.4         61.5        61.4         57.         S6.2        54.1         52.3        53.6         53.1        59.6         13.9        53.
Doeths                                                  -14.5        -15.2       -14.5        -12,6       -13.4        -13.9       -13.3        -12.4       .12.2       -14.1        -11.2       .13.3        .13.2
Net "igration                                                -24.3        -5.9 -5 SO               -4.3       -10.5        -13.4       -20.1        .30.9 1      33.1       -10.4        -24.6       -25.1        -20.5
POPULATION  (and of year)                                  2143.1    2131.0    2214.6    2263.0    2296.3    2325.5    2346.1    2355.1    2357.9    2392.3                            2414.3    2435.5    2440.1
Ipercentage)
PATC  or IwupAt,L icINAU                                       2.1          2.1         2.2          2.2         1.3          1.0         1.5         1.7          1.3         1.3          2.0         1.3          1.3
liFth  Rate                                               2.5         2.3          2.9         2.3         2.6          2.4         2.4          2.3         2.3          2.5         2.5         2.5          2.4
Death Rate                                              -0.7         -0.7         -0.7        -0.6        -0.6         -0.4        .0.6         -0.6        .0.5        -0.6         .0.5        -0.5         .0.6
PATE OF HIORATION                                             -1.1        -0.3         -0.4        -0.2         -0.5        -0.6         -0.9 S       1.1        .1.7         .0.4        .1.0         1.1          1.0           I
MATS or PoPLkATION
INCREUS                                                        0.9          1.3         1.3         2.0          1.4         1.2          0.9         0.4         0.1          1.5         1.0          0.3         1.0          00
....................................... ..................................................................................... .. ......... ... .... .................................
Sourosi Statistical Institute of Jamaica.
TABLE 25: TOTALPOPUL.ATION
PARISH                            19e6        1937        1988       1959        1990        1991        1992
KINGSToN & ST. AONDREW         641.500    040.400    649,700    661.oo071.500    671,100                58e.400
ST.THOMAS                       85.300      e5,400      65,30O      ee,200      66,500     11,75D      e8.100
PORTLAND                        77.100      77.100      78.700      77.200      77.500      7,0o0       76.w00
ST.MARY                        111.600    111.700    111,200    112.000    112.10O         113.000     l13.400
STANN                          147,100    147,200    147,200    149,100    150300    151,700    153,200
TRELAWNY                         73.200     73.200      71,000      73,700      73.e00      713,00      74,00
STJAMES                         149,500    150,900    152.400    155.700    156,500    101,000         163.6D0
HANOVER                          65.200     f5.100      64.500      65,800      fS,700     o8.000       668.30
WESTMORELAND                    126,800    128.800    12t,300      127,700    120.400    128.600       129.,00
ST.ELIZAIBE1H                   144,400    144.500    143,000    144,900    145,o0o        145,3D0    14a.0o0
IANCHESTER                      157.000    15S.200     159.300    163,100    165,000    157.900       170,000
CLARENDON                      214,400    214,f00      214.200    2160D       218.000    219,400    221.300
ST.CATHERINE                   353.200    354,000    353.700    3S8,600    311.400    364.400    361.7sw
TOTAL IS3LAN                  1246,100   1,351,100   2,311,700   1.392,000  2,414,500  1,436,600   2,410,500
SERVICE AREA                   541,500    645,400    840.700    661.600    671,500    079.100    658.400



- 19 -
TABLE 3: Financial Relations with the world Bank Group
A. Statement of the Wortd Bank loans as or October .31. 1993
in milInmam of U.S. Dolls.
Loot    Flsol                                                                           (L1a Cancullaion)
Na.    Year 1/             Borrower                       Project Name                Amount  TUndLsbursed
43 Loanu fully disbursed 2/                                                                764.60
of which: SECALs. SALs and progr   lamIO  3/
2105-1M        1982 Jamaica                      Strucmror Adjustrnent                      (7620)
2315-3M        1983 Jamaica                      Strucral Adjustunent [I                   (60.20)
2478-JNf       1965 Jamaica                      Structural Adjustnent m                    (55.00)
2841-3M        1937 Jamaica                       Trade and Finance Sector Adjxustment     (40.00)
2S49-lM        1987 Jamaica                      Public Incerprise Sector Adjustnent        (20.00)
3174-4M        1990 Jamaica                       Agniculture Sector Adjustrnen             (25.00)
3303-JM       1991 Jamaica                       Trde and Finance Adjustnent II            (30.00)
2389-JMt       1984 Jamrica                      Urban Transport 4/                          16.00         4.60
2422-3M,      1986 Jamaica                       Water Supply and Sewerage TA.               2.30          17.00
Rehabiliation 5/
2S50-IM       1987 Jamiaica                      Sugar Rehabilitation                       29.90           1.90
2851-JM       19S7 Janaica                       Population and Health                      10.00          7.00
2869-JM        19S7 Jamaica                      Fourth Power                               18.00          4.20
2S99-3MI       1988 Jamaica                      Educabon                                    4.30           1.60
3062-3M        t989 lamaica                      Claretdon Aluminia Producror               15.00          11.60
3111-)hl       1990 Jamaica                      Social Sector Development                  30.00         22.10
3275-3l        1990 Jamaica                      Road Infrasarucacre Planing                35.00         2.30
3386-3MI       1991 Jamaica                      Funce and Program Managemtent              11.50          2.00
lmprovement
3502-lNM       1992 Jamaica                      Ennrga Scetor Deregulation                 60.00         45.40
3580-JMN       1993 Jamaica                      Reform of Secondary Educaton               32.00         32.00
3622-RA        1993 Jamaica                      Private Sector Development Adjustant       73.00         35.00
Total (as of cancellation)       1,114.20
of which has been repaid                 424.70
Total now outstanding            689.50
Total Undisburned                             198 00
B.  Statement of EFC tnvestments as or October 31, 1993
estment Fiscal                                                   Type                        In N1l1l1on of U.S. Dollars
:o.    Year UI             Borrower                          Susiness                  Loan        Equity       Total
38      1961 Jamaica Pre-fix Ltd          Coment and constr. matetials                0.20        -            0.20
136     1969 Pegasus Hotels of Jamaica     Tourism                                     2.20          0.80      3.00
542     19S1 West Indian Glass Company     Glass containaers                           2.30        -            2.20
598      1982 Jamaica Flour Mills Limnited  Food and food processing                   5.00        -            5.00
51S     1985 The Falcon Fund               Guarantee facility                          2.50        -            2.50
815     1985 Western Banana Estates 6      Food and food processing                    3.70          0.40       4.10
907      1987 St Mary's Bauua Esttes Ltd.   Food and food processing                   3.90           1.20      5.10
1125      1989 Eagle Merehant Buak          Commercial bank                             5.00        -            5.00
1130      1989 Jamaica Cidz=n Bank          Commercial bank                             5.00        -            5.00
1131     1989 Mutual Security Bank          Commercial bank                             5.00        -            5.00
3427      1993 Caribbean Coment Co.         Coment                                      S.00        -            S.00
Total gross commitments                                                 42.30           2.40     43.20
Les cancelationsc teninations, participaiottns
sales, and repaymenm                                                              30.10           1.20     31.30
Total comnitmnencs now held by IFC                                                12.d0           1.20     13.20
Total undisbursed (including paricipanta)                                          3.00        -            3.00
ITotal outstandin                                                                   9.70          1.20      10.90o



_ 20 -
`MBASMC.ATA:SHIEET                   s
Table 4,
Year         Type of Activity             No. of Staff Weeks
1983       Lending                                       0.2
1984       Lending                                      33.6
1984       Supervision                                   2.5
1985       Supervision                                  16.6
1986       Supervision                                  13.6
1987       Supervision                                  14.1
1988       Supervision                                  17.3
1989       Supervision                                  11.8
1990       Supervision                                   4.3
1991       Supervision                                  11.5
1992       Supervision                                   5.2
1993       Supervision                                   6.2
1994       Project Completion Report                     3.1
1994       Supervision                                   1.8
Total                                      141.6



TABLE S
CONSULTANT'S SERVICES
CON1'RACT DETAILS
CONSULTING.         P    ::        PR F  ERVJCES                      VAtUF oF CONTKA_f.:                 DURATION        DATE oF    DURATION PATFS- RMARS
FIRM                                                          JS            USS   -TOTAL(USS) MAN-MONTIIS SIGNATURE   BEGIN                       END
Alberga Grahar         B   Architectural Design                      35,000.00                     6,363.64                      1 -Mar-85    I-Mar-85  31-May-86    Compided
B    Marcscaux Site Study                     30,000.00                     5,454.55                     15-Dec-84     I-Jan-85    I-Oct-86    Compicltd
Awma?                  A    Dalcy & Mitchell Training                                7,200.00      7,200.00                      N/A          N/A         N/A         Compicted
A    Douglas & Mitchell Training                             4,270.00       4,270.00                      N/A         N/A         N/A         Complctcd
Black h Veatch          3   Rctain Chlornation Expert                               36,000.00     36,000.00                      1 -Mar-85    1-Mar-85  31-Aug-85    Complcted
Carlos Campuzano       A    Short Term Consultant                                  40,000.00      40,000.00                     31-May-85    15-lan-85   30-Jun-86    Compicetd   N
COM                    A    Technical Assistance to NWC?                         1,200,000.00   1,200,000.00                     1 -Aug-84    1-Aug-84   31 -Dcc-86    Compictcd
A    Consultants Rate Study                                141,394.00     141,000.00                      I-Nov-84    I -Nov-84   31 -De-86    Compicted
A    Short Tern Consultant     .                                                  0                       1-Aug-84    1-Aug-84    1 -Aug-84    Completed
Devon Smith            A    Engineer/Analyst Consultant              30,000.00                     5,454.55        12             1-Oct-85    I-Scp-85  31-Aug-96    Completed
Georgc Washington      A    Dalton Bailey Training                                  5,000.00       5,000.00                      N/A          N/A         N/A
University
Hugh Chantrecle        A    Consulling Services                      33,000.00                     6,000.00        12            1-Oct-84     1-Oct-84   30-Sep-85
Inrorrnation Systems   A    Manust Procedure or                      42,000.00                     7,636.36                       1-Jan-85    1-Jan-85
Limitcd                     New Billing System
Mst of MgmL            A    Basic Accounting Coursc                  11,300.00                     2,054.55                      N/A          N/A         N/A



TABLE 5
CONSULTANTS SERVICES
CONSULTING    PVAI     O F CONT                                                                  U   TION:   PATE OF  DUR  TIO  D
FIRM  P  SERVICE           _______          Uss      TOTAL ~~~~~~~~~.(US$) MN-MONTHS SIGC TRE.GI                     N
Safage            C    Contract for Tech Services                  13,410.00        13,410.00         1            14-Aug-85   12-Jan-86   12-Fcb-86    Completed
Mapping & Customer Census
Technical Assist    A    William Krause                              66,000.00      66,000.00        6                            1-Jul-86   30-Jun-47  Estimated fee
Independent       A    Carl Schwing                                  54,000.00      54,000.00        6                           5-Feb-87     5-Jul-87  Eslimated fee
Consultants        A    Maurice Jones                                72,000.00      72,000.00        12                         15-Feb-87   15-Feb-B   Estimated Gcc
A
Webb Terrelonge    A    Programming of Billings Sys   162,900.00                    29,618.18                        1-Jan-85    I -Jan-85
TOTAL:                                              162,900.00   205,410.00      235,02S.181
THIS IS TABLE 5  PAGE 1 OF 3



TABLE 5
CONSULTANT'S SERVICES
_         :            .   -- - -:: -  :: :     :           - . : -:: ::   - -  C O CONTRACT  DETAIL S
CONSULTING          P       :  TYPE OP SERVICES                        VALU  OF CONTACT..                   pUIUATIONm. DATE OF    DURATION PATES   REMAIKS
FIRM            P                                       .      JS            US$       TOTAL(IJSS) MAN -MONTHS SIGNATURE   BEGIN                    EN1D
Joint Consultants      D    Inspection (Constr. & Superv.)            78,268.00                    14,230.55                       1 -Sep-85    1-Sep-85   30-Sep-86    Complctcd
D    Kds Dsgn/BI)D Doc/Assoc MWks)           500,000.00                    90,909.00        %               1-Jan-85    1-Jan-85    1-Jun-85    Compiclcd
E   Award Dcsign of Kings Hsc Sewer          333,177.00                    60,577.64        %
1-n. Pub. Util.        A    Training Consumcr Rclations                8,000.00                     1,454.55                     25-Mar-85   25-Mar-85   30-Mar-85    Completed
Training Ccnter        A    Scwcr Cleaning Training Program                          3,300.00       3,300.00                       1 -Jun-86   I -Jun-86   15-Jun-86    Compicted
Merwing Brickell
Option Makers Ltd.     A    Workshop & Training for Commecmial        56,000.00                    10,181.82                       1-Jan-85     l-Jan-85                           L
Division
Peal Marwick           A    Personnel Mgmt. System Design                            2,000.00       2,000.00                      15-Apr-86   15-Apr-86    I -Jan-86
A    Financial System Design                                                       0                        1-Oct-84    1-Oct-84
A    Financial Consultants (DPP)             215,000.00      27,960.00     67,050.91                        I-Feb-86    I-Fcb-86
B    Flct Management Consultant                                                    0
Price Waterhouse       A   NWC Oflece Automation & Doc Mgmt                          5,000.00       5,000.00                                    I-Jul-86    1 5-Jul-86
2eid Crowther          E   Redesign Studies or40 WNT-Plants                         60,000.00     60,000.00                        1-Jan-85    1-May-85    1-Jan-87    Completed
TOTAL:                                                       1,37 1,745.00   1,532,124.00   1,78 1,138.12 _1



WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Ln 2422)
TABLE 6:  Project Coat. - Appraisal Estimates and Actual
DESCRIPTION                                     ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                            ACTUAL EXPENDITURE                         ACTUAL
(Up to March 1992)              (April 1992 - March 1894)   TOTAL
Foreign    Local      Total     Foreign    Local       Total     Foreign    Local      TOal  COSTS
(USs)      (US$)      (US$)    (US$)        (US$)      (US$)    (USp)       (US$)       (US$)  fUSs)
A. Management Improvement Programme
1. T1chnical Aselstance                  1620000    160000   1800000   2941340                  2941340    466871                 466871   3408211
2  Financial Information Systems Improvement    600000    100000    700000    612530            612530               2987782   2967782   350O312
3. Billing System Improvement             100000      50000    150000    640030                 640030                                      640030
4. Microcomputer & Software Supply        180000          0    180000    121050                  121050                                     121050
Sub-total              2500000    330000   2830000   4314950             0   4314950    466871   2967782   3434653   7749803
B. Support Facilititb  Improvement & Rehabilitation
1. Workhop, tores & offloe upgrading      275000    275000    550000    173810                   173810      96962                 96952    270762
2. Vehicular Fleet Upgrading              665000      76000    740000    582570                  582570                                      582570
3. Chlorination equipment upgrading       150000      40000    190000    181080                  181080                                     1a1080
4. Pump Rehabilitation & dtandardization  400000      50000    450000    258570                 258570                                      258570
5. Purchase of Equipment Generatore        140000          0    140000       5910                  6910                                        5910 >
6. Energy Equipment & Tools                     0          0          0      5000                  6000                                        5000 1
Sub-total              1630000    440000   2070000   1206940             0   1206940       96952          0      96952   1303892
C. Kingston Water 01Dsrbution
- system management improvwment          475000    175000    650000             0          0          0    825333          0    825333    826333
D. Kingston Water Transmission Improvements   825000    825000   1650000    663770    332290    996060               0          0          0    996060
E. Kingston Sewerage System Operations Improve.    1320000    480000   1800000      0                     0    724944    158250    883194    883194
BASEOOST               6750000   2250000   9000000   6185660    332290   6517950   2114100   3126032   5240132  11758082
Physical Contingencies  675000    225000    900000
Price Contingenoles    1575000    525000   2100000
TOTAL PFOJECTCOST      9000000   3000000  12000000   6185660    332290   6517950   8299760   3458322  11758002



- 25 -
WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Ln2422
TABLE 7A: Financial Indicators
Category                                    1983/84        19a4/asa    1991/92b   1992/93c   1993/94b
. . ..... ........ .... .. .. .. .................... ... .. .................................... __......... ____
Population                                       2263.0         229s.8         2414.9         2435.0        2456.9
KSA                                               611.3          a22.8;         643.7          651.4          659.2
Volume of Water Produced  (MGD)                     19.0           30.5           59.8           63.2           62.7
Volume of Water Billed       (MGD)                  13.3           19.9           19.8           19.5           19.2
Unaccounted tor Water        (%)                    30.0           34.8            16.9          69.1           69.4
Revenue Billed               (SM)                                               e6s.6         1084.0         1112.0
Collections                  (SM)                 473.0          847.0          513.8          835.0         1548.0
Number cf Accounts           (active)            93000         157197         235048         280000         255021
Operating Cost               (SM)                 649.0          862.0         1079.9         1105.0         1734.0
Total Energy Charge          ($M)                  -              -                395           405            465
Total Pay and Benefits       (SM)                                                  282           311            523
Number of Employees/d                              .                             2943           2401           2833
Number of New Connections                          -                             4650          e6so            6515
Collections/Revenue                    ()          -              -77                              77
Operating Costs/devenue Billed         (Y)            81             e1            162           102            128
Personnel Costs/Revenue               (%)          -              _                 26             28             39
Volume BilledNolume Produced           (N)         -              -                 33             31             12
Employees/1000 Accounts/d                             23             21           12.5             10             10
a/ Introduction ct Parish Councils
b/ Estmated
a/ Introduction ot new billing computer system
d/ At end ot fi90al year
TABLE 7B: DOMESTIC WATER SUPPUES 1984185 - 1991192
SUBHEAD TITLE               19S84S  1985/6  1986187  1987/88  1998189  1989t90  1990/91  1991192 (s)
AMOUNT OF WATER FPoDUCED Mlt Imp Gab)    38,271    41,157    54,022    S5,250    55,393    57,937    61.242         *0,345
KINGSTON AND STJNOREW                  15.39     15.352    17,289     18.t13    13140      1t,506    20.858        20.18t
OTHER                                  22,t82    25.80    38,733     36.437    36.458     38.431    40,387        40.160
CONSUMPTION (Mi Imp Galt)               24,300    35,660    35.114    35,912    37,707    42,62       4s,900        49,421
KINCSTON ANO ST.ANDREW                 11.642    11.315    11236      12t       12,a8     14,2Dt     15.200        18.720
OTHER                                  1L,58    24.345     2.75       22,584    24.863    28,420     30.7C0       3Z?M0
PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION (GisCayfnnecfonl
KING5TON ANO STANOREW                    448       430       405        437       436        494       520           so8
OrHER                                  1t20        *13       436        405       404        454       431           4Q2
NUMBERS Of CONNECTIONS                 100,777   201,353   225,093   236.845   249,437   248,553   275,000        21,333
KINGSTON AND STANOREW                  71.60     72M000    75,977     76.692    110.6t3   78,886     80.000       79.261
OTHER                                 25.097    129,ttS3    154i116    160,153    168,744    110,857    188,000  II5872
REVENUE(SM)                               124       136        249       249        354       3nJ        36           484
KINGSTON AND ST.ANOREW                   78         a        129        129       1t2       217        20C2          m
OTHER                                    46         48       121        121       1S2       161        144           212
(I ESTIMATED



*                     WATER SUPPLY and SEWERAGE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Ln2422)
TABLE 8: Financial Tables
A. Balance Sheet
Category                           1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992193
(JiM)      (J$M)       (JSM)      (JSM)       (J$M)      (JSM)       (J$M)      (JSM)       (J$M)
Current Assets
Inventories                          22.6        23.3       26.8        20.5       35.9        35.0       34.5        41.2       40.8
Consumers Account RecoIvable          76.2      124.4      232.4       261.6       296.5      283.7       323.9      348.7       555.9
Other Accounts Receivable              3.6        2.6         2.3         3.2        8.1         6.1       10.2        22.0        5.0
Cash& Bank Balances                    4.4        10.2       24.4        22.6       19.6        23.5        15.5       25.4        72.0
106.8      160.4      285.9       307.9       359.3      348.1       384.2      437.3       673.7
Fiked Assets                           202.4       206.3      203.2       200.0      209.5       472.2       457.9      528.9       500.5
Construction Work In Progress          216.3       246.7      278.2       298.2      393.5       181.1       295.0      533.4       364.5
Long Term Receivables                     0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8         0.8         0.8        0.8
Deterred Expenses                         8.8        5.9        3.1         0.1                   -           -           -         -
Current Liabilities                                                                                                                          0
Bank Overdraft                        10.7        5.1         5.0      -             5.9       10.4        15.1       64.6        59.7
Deposits & Retentions                  6.5        6.6         9.4       13.7        14.8         9.4       12.9       18.9        12.6
Trade Acoounts Payable                 3.7        4.1         5.6         6.0        4.3        14.1       20.1        44.4       69.1
Other Accounts Payable                26.6       26.9        19.5       12.9        34.6        74.7      148.2      249.7       370.1
DuetoAccountGeneral                   27.9        52.2       60.9        80.6      115.7       154.1      207.6       298.3      380.0
Current & Past Due MaturIies
of Long Term Liabildies           44.6        48.5       58.3       137.9      158.1       162.1       180.7      268.9       110.5
Total Current Liabilities              120.0       143.5      158.8       251.2      333.5       424.9       584.7      994.9      1002.1
Net Current Assets (Liabilities)        (13.2)      16.9      127.2        56.6        25.7       (78.8)    (200.4)     (507.6)    (328.4)
Long Term Liabilities                  264.2       282.4      288.4       298.7      346.9       393.9       445.3     1196.3      1113.2
Financed By:
Reserves
Capital reserve                      71.5        71.5       71.5        71.5        71.5       63.9        63.9        63.9       63.9
Scholarship Reserve                       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Accumulated debt/Surplus            (66.4)       (55.4)     45.2        18.5       12.9       (125.0)    (2584)      (1080.J .  (1073.4)
CapitalGrants                       145.8       176.1      207.3       167.9      198.2       244.4      302.4       364.3      433.6
Total Reserves                          151.0      194.2      324.1       257.9      2B2.8       183.5       107.9      (651.7)    (575.8)



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
B: OPERATING STATEMENT 1986 - 1992
YEAR ENDED MARCH 31.
1986          1987          1980          1989           1990          1991           1992 (pi
Revenua                             212,185,083    334,413,768    307,229.344    313,630,193    357,722,462    415,081,143    516,593,307
Operalln Expenses                   187,836,186    209,162,632    260,668,777    273,102,033    396.052,904    400.631,473    653,6D8,976
24,348,897    125.251,136   46,560,567    40,528,160    (38,330,442)   (45,550,330)  (137,105,669)
Miscellaneous                         1,187,695      2,310.688     3,004.083     1,319,218      2,429,648     1,294,011     4,295,455
Interest                                150,023       131,420       392,834        218,543       676,995      1,705,1J7     1,103,123
Non Profit InoOme                     1,337,718      2.442.108     3,398,917     1.537 761      3,006,643     2,999,188     5,398,578
25,686,615    127.e93,244   49,957.484    42,065,921    (35.323,799)   (42,551,142)  (131,707,091)
Other EVense
Bank Interest                        14,413,538     22,135,835     0.791,037     7.823,076       335,863      3,505,034     4,716,134
LOan                                                              24,002.080    28,879,484     35,243,205    3e,283,559    60.172,353
Depreciation                          3,277,915      4,582,585     4,7:38,501    4,647.141      9,631.972    18,020,328    10,681,586
17,691,451    26,698,200  _35,811,818     41,350.601     45.211,0Q40   57,812,021    75,570,078
Operatin Pwfit(Loss)                  7,995,164    100,905,044    14.345,866       715,320    (00,534,839)  (100,363,163)  (207,277,169)
Foreign Exchange Lose6                2,985,217      (357,710)      (612.234)    (6,324,510)   (60,125,730)   (33.086,433)  (620,530,455)
Grants                               20.610,0D0     29,841,105     7;975,005    30,257,189     48,292,215    57,949,707    61,951.206
SurplusqD.cNt) for Om year           31,570,381    130.478,439    21.708,637    24,647,909    (94.368,354)   (75,499,889)  (765.856.416)
Surplus/(deficl) at begining of year  (E6,378,843)   (55.418,482)                                          (127,794,323)  (261,243,919)
As Prevously Reported                                            45,218,872     63,318,904    12,856,246
Pmlr year Adjustment                                             (40,477,068)   (44,843,468)
As resbted                                                         4,741,004    18,475.436     12,668,248
(34.808,462)    75,059,977   28,450,441    43,123,435    (81,502,108)  (203,294,212) (1,021,100,337)
Tmnsfer to Capbal ranb              (20,810.000)   (29,841,105)    (7,975,005)   (30,257,180)   (46,292,215)   (57,949,707)   (61,951,208)
Accumulated Srplus(DeIic1t) at year anc.    (55,415,462)    45,218,872  18,475,436  12,866,246   (127,704,323)  (261,243,919) (1,089,061.543)



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION - JAMAICA
LOAN 2422 - JM
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AND TECI NICAL ASSISTANCE AND REIlABILITATION PROJECT
Compliance with (Amended) Loan Conditions
SECTION OF LA
or PA '
AGREEMENT                           SUBJECT                      COMPLIANCE DATE                             REMARKS
3.01 (d) (III)LA   Establish and promptly replenish the Projcct Account                  In compliance
Annual review of NWC's Financial Plan. Dcbt a major
3.02 LA            Cary out NWC Financial Plan                                           outstanidinig issue
Completion of the Yallabs River Project in tirnely                    In compliance. Pipeline and Treatment Plant completod in 12J85.
3.04 (a) LA        manncr                                            12/85               In operation.
In-house restructuring of managmnent developed Junc 1989.
Prepare and fumish to Bank a rcview of the effectiveness              Implementation completed lanuary 1990. Decentralization Study
3.05(a)LA          of NWC Management                                by 12/31 each year    completed September 1990. Implementation presently underway.
Prepare plan of action for implementation of review
(b)                referred to in (a) above                         by 2/28 each year    As above.
(c)                Put into effect plan of action referred to in (b) above    by 3/31 eac:i year  As above.
Prepare annual forecast of funds necessary to balance
NWC's revenues and operating costs and capital                        NWC unable to balance revenues with operating costs and capital
3.08(a)LA          expenditures                                                          expenditures.
4.02 LA            External audit in Project Account and Special Account.  by 9/30 each year  In compliance. Audit for 92/93 due 9/30, 1994.



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION - JAMAICA
LOAN 2422 - JM
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AND TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE AND REItABILITATION PROJECT
Compliance witlh (Amended) Loan Conditions
SECTION OF LA
or PA *
AGREEMENT                           SUBJECT                       COMPLIANCE DATE                             REMARKS
Consult Bank on any capital (non-project) expenditures                 In compliance - Bank sanction obtained for CDB Commnunity
4.03 LA            in cxcess of US$500,000/year.                                          Catchment Tank Loan.
GOJ's investments in the water sector made through Caribbcan
Engineering. These have been rcvicwed.
Prepare and furnish to Bank a financial programme and                  Program submitted for Bank approval. Condition no longer
2.09(a)PA          procedures for takeover by NWC of Parish Council Ops.     N/A          applicable (see 2.09 (b))
Carry out such takeover described in (a) above in                      Takeover carried out August 1985. Economic viability of most
(b)                accordance with timetable satisfactory to Bank.           N/A          systems is poor.
Prepare and rumnish to Bank a tariff study for NWC
2. 10(a)PA         operations.                                        12/31/84            Draft and final study received Feb. 1985 and July 1986.
Implement reconnendation of tariff study described in (a)
(b)                above.                                            6/30/85
Strengthen NWC organization and operations as follows:                 In compliance - Bank sanction obtaincd for CDB Community
3.06 PA            (Schedule 2, PA)                                                       Catchmcnt Tank Loan.
FIS Study completed in late 1986 KPMG. Due to Parish
A. Prepue and furnish to Bank new accounting, financial                takeover new FIS-Specs prepared June 1988 by Price
and management information systems.               9/30/85              Wateroiluse.
,Implement the abovc _stcms.                      3/31/86             ISteps takcn for implementation;



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION - JAMAICA
LOAN 2422 - JM
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AND TECI HNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REIIABILITATION PROJECT
Compliance with (Amended) Loan Conditions
SECTION OF LA
or PA *
AGREEMENT                           SUBJECT                      COMPLIANCE DATE                             REMARKS
1. Tech. proposals + bids April 85. Expensive + softwarc
inadequate for specs.
2. Upgrade ICL-ME29 + Rewrite Billing Sys. Bureau service
poor, project abortcd June 87.
3. FSL to provide billing (CIS) and FIS by April 1988. FIS
system found to be inadequate.                              w
4. Interim micro-computer based FIS implemented Mar. 89 - Dec.
89. Significant improvement in Accounting and Fin. info.
5. Information Technology Strategic plan developed by NWC
90/91. This was the basis for the long lerm FIS.
Invcnlory module of interim FIS used to process backlog
B. Prepare and furnish to Bank a new inventory control               inventory and to update prices for stock valuation April 85 -
system.                                          9/30/85              Marchi 89 - (March 90)
Backlog inventory processing complete to March 89. Interim
Put such system into effect.                     3/31/86              system to bc used on-line from cnd Oct. 90.
Comprchensivc "draft" docuncnt prepared. One done, another
,C. Put into effect new personncl policies and procedures. 12/31/85   being prepared (Willer)



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION - JAMAICA
LOAN 2422 - JM
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Compliance with (Amended) Loan Conditions
SECTION OF LA
or PA *
AGREEMENT                          SUBJECT                       COMPLIANCE DATE                            REMARKS
D. Cay out a program of standardization of water ad
seweragc equipment.                              12/31/85            In compliancc.
In compliance. FSL (Service bureau) providing Billing service
islandwide. Management report capability of FSL(DSI) system is
limited. Bill system specification for medium to long term to be
E. Put into effect a billing and computer account system. 3/31/85    reviewed and formalized by Aug.90.
Interim (micro-based) FIS in place. Long term system
implemented 1990/92.
Prepare and furnish to Bank external audit for NWC                   Chronic delay in submission of audit reports. Last audit report
4.02(a) PA        Financial Statements.                            by 9/30 each yer     submitted 91/92. Awaiting 92/93.
Significant revenue improvement 89/90 through bener EDP
Adequate revenue generation to meet operating expenses 89/90 - 20%/.  Billing System and widened revenue net. Similar plans for 90/9 1;
working capital increase, higher debt service or  90/91 - 30% and after 91/92; and 92/93. Current review of financial plan expected to
4.03(a) PA        depreciation, and adequate contribution to capital  92/93, 93/94     formalize a tariff increase to address shortfalls.
Review of adequacy of revenues for the ongoing and                   93/94 Plan is now being reviewed due to rreccnt change in
following fiscal years and take actions as necessaiy to              primary costs and the dcvelopment of a new management and
(b) and (c)        meet revenue requirements.                      by 9/30 each year    operations strategy.



NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION - JAMAICA
LOAN 2422 - JM
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEIRAGE AND TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE AND REI tABILITATION PROJECT
Compliance with (Amended) Loan Conditions
SECTION OF LA
or PA *
AGREEMENT                           SUBJECT                       COMPLIANCE DATE                             REMARKS
Current ratio is vcry low (ess than .4) based on 92/93 rmancial
Not incur debl unless debt scrvice coverage ratio exceeds              performance and projections for 93/94. Debt problem being
4.05(a)            1.5                                                                    discussed widt GoJ.
Prepare and furnish to Bank inventory of NWC's fixed
4.06 (a)           assets in operation.                                                   Prepared but not completed. Hope to do in FY 94/95.
(b)                Annually revalue fixed assets for (a) above.                           Prepared but not completed. Hope to do in FY 94/95.
Furnish Bank with NWC Investment program for next
4.08 PA            three Financial Years.                            by 9/30 t ach year   Draft program to year 2000.



- 33 -
.9Gaw'<.....<=,l4t's'  I ategor .r     ..A]io,~... ....... M 
(2)   Equipment, materials, spare            3,600,000             3,282,441.65 |
parts and vehiclesl
(3)   Cosuans servie                           3,200,000              4,672,069.90
(4)   Initial deposit in Special              500,000                      0.00 |
Account
(5)   Fee                                      22,444                 22,444.00 |
(6)   Unallocated                             877,566                      0.00 
. ....29~93.56









I        I    /  
2u , !,    T       ;4 K _ .  ,
! . l -; Ix  1_::|e-
,             N'!t., Tif A T       



