Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3797-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $9.0 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Official Rate (1979 - Nov. 1983)       Official Parallel Rate (Jan. 1983 -
Nov. 1983)
US$1.0  =  J$ 1.78                     US$1.0  =  J$ 2.4 - 2.9
J$ 1.0  =  US$0.56                     J$ 1.0  =  US$0.34 - 0.42
Official Rate (April 2, 1984)
US$1.0 = J$3.5
J$ 1.0 = US$0.29
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Jamaica and NWC: April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/US Units                      Metric Equivalent
1 inch (in)                 =          2.54 centimeters (cm)
1 foot (ft)                 =          0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                 =          1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)         =          2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 acre                      -          0.4047 hectares (ha)
1 imperial gallon (I.gal.) =           4.454 liters (1)
ABBREVIATIONS
BOJ       Bank of Jamaica
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IWSD      International Water Supply Decade
JNIC      Jamaica National Investment Company
KWC       Kingston Water Commission
ldc       Liters per day per capita
MPUT      Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications and Transport
NWA       National Water Authority
NWC       National Water Commission
PS        Permanent Secretary
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Jamaica
Beneficiary:                  National Water Commission (NWC)
Amount:                       US$9.0 million equivalent (including a capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:                        17 years, including 4 years grace   standard variable
interest rate
Relending terms:              The Government would make the proceeds of the loan
available to NWC under the same terms and conditions.
NWC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:          The primary objectives of the project are to
strengthen NWC's financial/commercial, institutional
and operational capabilities and to ensure that
additional takeovers of parish council water supply
systems are accomplished in an orderly manner. More
specifically, the project seeks to reduce the sector's
dependence on Government subsidies; help eliminate
bottlenecks in the Kingston area water distribution
system; rehabilitate neglected water supply and
sewerage facilities; prepare a medium-term investment
program for NWC as well as feasibility studies for
extension of NWC's water anid sewerage systems; and
investigate and promote the use of low cost and
appropriate technology, principally for the rural
areas. The project comprises the following
components: (i) technical assistance to strengthen
management and improve financial information and
billing systems; (ii) purchase of microcomputers,
chlorination equipment, pumps, vehicles, emergency
generators, and equipment for water supply and
sewerage operations and maintenance upgrading; and
(iii)modernization of workshop and stores and
elimination of water transmission bottlenecks in
Kingston.
Benefits and Risks:           The project would make a major contribution to
improving urban water supply and sanitation services,
as well as strengthening the overall fiscal position
of the Government. Success of the project will depend
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
on the Government's continued commitment to
improving public enterprise management. In
addition, the absolute shortage of skilled
personnel in Jamaica is a source of risk, and
could require the extension of management
technical assistance beyond the two-year period
envisioned in the project, for which the
Government would need to identify additional
financing.
ESTIMATED COSTS
Project Costs:a/                                 ------US$ million------
Foreign   Local   Total
Consultant Services                                2.75       .65    3.40
Equipment                                          3.15       .75    3.90
Building Rehabilitation and pipe
Installation                                      .85      .85    1.70
TOTAL BASE COST                                    6.75      2.25    9.00
CONTINGENCIES (Physical)                            .68       .22      .90
(Price)                            1.55       .53    2.08
TOTAL PROJECT COST a/                              8.98     3.00   11.98
Front-end Fee                                       .02        -       .02
Total Financing Required                           9.00     3.00   12.00
Project Financing:
IBRD                                             9.00        -      9.00
NWC                                                 -      3.00    3.00
Total                                      9.00      3.00   12.00
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
------------US$ million--------------
FY 85   FY 86   FY 87    FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91
Annual        1.4      2.1      2.1       1.7      1.1     0.4      0.2
Cumulative   1.4       3.5      5.6       7.3      8.4     8.8      9.0
Estimated Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBRD No. 18111
a/ Taxes are not included, as NWC is exempt from taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$9.0 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a water supply and sewerage
technical assistance and rehabilitation project. The loan would have a
£          term of 17 years, repayable on a fixed amortization schedule, including 4
years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1L/
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Recent Developments and Economic
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 17, 1984.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth in per capita income. Manufacturing declined by 31%,
and construction by 58%. The share of investment expenditures declined
from 22% of GDP in 1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption
expenditures increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's
declining confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current
expenditures.
4.        As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from
1/   This section is substantially the same as in the President's Report on
the Export Crops Project to be presented to the Board on May 15.



-2-
17% of GDP in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-518 million
in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.
B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility Arrange-
ment and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would together
provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The Government also
requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank, and a first
such loan, for US$76.2 million, was approved in March 1982. The SAL
included conditions in balance of payments management, industry, agricul-
ture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second SAL
was approved in June 1983, covering the same policy areas, but with the
addition of action programs in the field of public administration.
7.        One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s--
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving.  One aspect was to attract a high level of official assist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system controlled primarily by market
forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an "example" to
others.



-3-
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called °no-
funds" licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early in
1983. It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market, forma-
lization of its operations through institutionalization within the commer-
cial banking system, and a simplification of the import licensing arrange-
ments. This process was taken a stage further in November 1983. The
two-tier system was abandoned in favor of a unified exchange rate system,
with some built-in flexibility. The initial rate was set at J$3.15 =
US$1.00, which represents a 77% devaluation of the official rate. The
system experienced some initial problems with respect to daily rate-fixing
and rules for adjusting the band from time to time. However, revised rules
for these two aspects were put in place on March 15, 1984, which introduced
a broad-based auction system for fixing rates. The Government is taking
steps to rationalize the market further by segregating private sector
arrears from current demand and reducing such arrears in an orderly way, as
well as permitting banks to purchase foreign exchange for the purpose of
opening new letters of credit. These steps are expected to introduce more
orderliness into the foreign exchange system, and bring about a situation
where the auctions are only required to meet demand for current
transactions. At the same time, the import licensing system has been
dismantled, and the only imports subject to continued administrative
control are items on the restricted list, and certain low priority consumer
goods. These remaining controls will be phased out gradually.
10.       The manufacturing sector--together with agriculture and
tourism--was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems:  (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded, inappro-
priate, and badly run-down working capital equipment, because of a lack of
investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign exchange for
spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is attempting to
redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by gradually
eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative restrictions, by
the gradual changes in the exchange rate, and by the expansion and liberal-
ization of the Export Development Fund, which provides exporters with
foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private investment, particul-
arly from overseas, is being actively encouraged, through the general
improvement in the investment climate, and through an agressive investment
promotion agency.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
(iii) improved incentives for nontraditional agricultural exports (i.e.,



-4-
excluding sugar and bananas ); and (iv) the encouragement of private
investment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.
12.        Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and that had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In
addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the paral-
lel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness. The collective result of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.        Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered recently was not expected or provided for in the
Government's scenario.  Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to
discuss changes in the production levy in relation to new investments by
the companies, but no major changes have yet been introduced.  In recent
months, the Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate
bauxite/alumina barter deals, in order to attempt to maintain the level of
output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been
achieved.
14.        Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Recent Economic Performance
15.        In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 3.3%. Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign excnange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to
12.8% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated.  It had



-5-
been expected that this higher deficit would be covered by increased flows
of official assistance. This occurred for the fiscal year 1981/82, where a
balance of payments surplus of US$43 million was achieved, but a large
proportion of the increased flows came in the last quarter, and on a calen-
dar year basis, there was a further decline in reserves by US$81 million.
16.       In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the inter-
national recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined by
26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was only
0.2%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects the
decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession, If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture, reflec-
ting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery of
bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the greater
availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports. Preliminary
figures indicate that economic growth of about 1.5% was achieved in 1983,
because of a recovery in the agricultural sector, and continued expansion
in the services sector.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public finan-
ces. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to
J$109 million (1.9% of GDP). In addition, expected Bark of Jamaica profits
(0.7% of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23% increase in tax
revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened from 2.6% of GDP
to 4.0% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit increased to 15.7% of
GDP from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of the financing required
coming from external sources. A similar pattern is emerging for FY83/84,
although the current account deficit is expected to worsen to over 6% of
GDP with the overall deficit held to a similar level to FY82/83 through
compressed capital expenditure.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 23% in nominal terms and merchandise
imports by 6% in 1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 13%, and with
tourism earnings rising by a further 15%, and transfers by 28%, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments improved to an estimated 11.9%
of GDP. On a calendar year basis, this resulted in an overall surplus of
US$88.2 million, but for FY1982/83, the net international reserves position
declined by close to US$150 million, causing difficulties with the net
foreign assets target of the EFF. Although a waiver in this respect was
granted by the IMF, the balance of payments situation did not improve
sufficiently in 1983 to permit the revised EFF program targets to be met.
Exports and imports were at similar levels to 1982, but with rising
interest payments and with private capital outflows, the balance of pay-
ments recorded a large overall deficit in 1983.  Consequently, the EFF
program was abandoned, and is to be replaced by a new Stand-By arrangement
with the IMF which is expected to be considered by the IMF Executive
Directors by the end of May 1984 to cover the Jamaican fiscal year April
1984 to March 31, 1985. The high level of official capital inflow of the
last three years has increased substantially the level of public debt and
debt servicing, which rose to the equivalent of about 26% of exports of
goods and services in 1983.



-6-
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to average 3% over the next few years, on the
assumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD
countries. This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to
bauxite/alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of
growth, GDP per capita in 1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak.
Moreover, most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising
domestically financed investment levels rather than consumption, which is
projected to grow very modestly, with national savings rising from 8.4% of
GDP in 1982 to about 20% of GDP towards the end of the decade, particularly
through expected improvements in public savings.
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 7% a year, largely reflecting re-
covery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1988, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC or US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -11.9% of GDP, to a level of about 4.5% of GDP towards the end of the
1980s.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$200 million a year. With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$400 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one quarter of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to be at a level of about 15% of exports of goods and
services throughout the 1980s. This is considered manageable; provided
that Jamaica continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and
economic recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for
limited external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank had approved 35 loans to Jamaica totalling US$598.2
million after cancellations as of March 31, 1984. Of this amount, US$178.9
million (30%) has been for infrastructure investments in transportation,
electric power, water supply and sewerage; US$172.4 million (29%) for
structural adjustment, program lending and related technical assistance;
US$98.6 million (16%) for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for
export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and
agroindustry (7%), education (5%), sites and services (3%), forestry (2%),
population and nutrition (2%), industrial development (6%), and petroleum
exploration (1%). As of March 31, 1984, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood
at US$536.5 million, or 21% of external debt outstanding and disbursed;



-7-
debt service to the Bank during FY83 amounted to US$36.4 million, or 12% of
total debt service. These shares are not expected to change substantially
in the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March
31, 1984 amounted to US$165.2 milllion. There have been four IFC
investments in Jamaica, the most recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour
mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further su1ift in Bank lend-
ing took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to help
relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems and improve
Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending program con-
tained a US$30 million program loan and an US$18 million loan for the
rehabilitation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry.
A US$31.5 million loan in FY79 was also directed at providing needed
balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds allocated to the
financing of the import needs of export industries through the
establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund; additional loans to
augment its resources were made in FY81 (US$37 million) and FY83 (US$30.5
million). Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of the
country's balance of payments difficulties will require making adjustments
to the economy over a period of time. The Government embarked on a
structural adjustment program in 1981; the Bank has supported this program
with two structural adjustment loans in FY82 (US$76.2 million) and FY83
(US$60.2 million). The technical assistance requirements of the structural
adjustment program were met through a $6.1 million technical assistance
loan made in FY82. Additional support for the Government's export program
was contained in a US$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion of a free
zone project in Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided loans for highway
maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 (US$16 million) and FY83 (US$15
million) as well as a US$30.5 million loan for a similar purpose for the
electric power system in FY82. In addition, an urban transport loan (US$16
million) focusing on maintenance and the privatization of the bus system
was presented to the Board in March 1984. Loans to support the expansion
of export agriculture (US$15 million) and the Government's Administrative
Reform Program (US$4.5 million) have also been submitted for Board approval
in May 1984.
25.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) continuation of support for the structural adjustment program;
b) projects in support of export development; and c) projects aimed at
conserving existing investment. In later years of the program, when the
country is better able to deal with its short and medium term balance of
payments situation, the Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis
on more socially oriented projects.



- 8 -
26.       Several project loans in Jamaica have encountered delays in
execution in recent years. These delays have occurred for a variety of
reasons.  Foreign exchange and fiscal constraints have affected progress of
some projects in the past. In the case of the third power and the highway
maintenance loans, difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness
relating to tariff actions in the first case and staffing in the second
caused initial delays; both projects are now on stream and progressing
relatively well. International recession affected demand for factory space
to be constructed under the Kingston Free Zone Project; demand has now
accelerated and 20 factories are under construction. Weaknesses in
management of the infant National Development Bank (NDB) have contributed
to a slow start for the Industrial Credit Project; a pipeline of
subprojects has now been developed, and several subloans have been
approved. The prevailing insufficiency of foreign exchange has also
delayed the effectiveness of the EDF III loan; it is expected that this
problem will be resolved shortly, in the framework of the reforms to the
foreign exchange market that were introduced on March 20, 1984. The single
most serious obstacle to timely project execution remains the lack of
skilled personnel in the public sector; current Bank lending attempts to
address this problem in part through the provision of substantial levels of
technical assistance and an even greater focus on institution-building than
in the past. In addition, the public administration reform project
referred to above would help the Government develop a civil service
environment which can better mobilize and more effectively use scarce human
resources.
PART III. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
27.       The development of the water supply sector in Jamaica is con-
ditioned by the distribution of its population, the geography, the climate
and the water resources. The population is estimated at 2.3 million in
1983, of which nearly one third lives in the Kingston Metropolitan area.
Ten per cent of the population lives in the parish capitals and the remain-
ing rural population is highly dispersed over the coastal plains and the
plateaus. A mountain ridge, rising to over 7,000 feet at its highest
point, divides Jamaica into northern and southern coastal areas. Almost
half of Jamaica's land area is over 1,000 feet above sea level. Although
the island enjoys a tropical climate with a high annual average rainfall of
77.1 inches, there are serious drought periods, particularly on the south
coast where 70% of the population lives.
Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels
28.       At present, it is estimated  that nearly all of the urban popula-
tion is served by house connections or has easy access to piped water and
that 79% of the rural population has adequate potable water services.
Water consumption averages about 350 liters per day per capita (ldc) in
Kingston and Montego Bay/Falmouth, and about 250 ldc in the remaining urban
areas.



- 9 -
Although service coverage is high, reliability of service is very uneven
and water supplies are inadequate particularly in the Kingston area. The
major reasons for these deficiencies are poor sector management combined
with financial weakness, which inhibits carrying out of necessary invest-
ments and proper preventive maintenance, and the island's susceptibility to
periodic drought. This latter problem has been especially evident during
the past two years in the Kingston area where a severe drought has resulted
in the imposition of strict measures to limit water usage.
29.       The provision of infrastructure and services for domestic and
industrial wastes water collection lags behind the development of water
suipply. Central waste water collection and treatment plants exist in a few
sections of some urban areas, and as a result about 95 per cent of the pop-
ulation is served by individual systems like septic tanks, pits and
privies. In Kingston it is estimated that about 20 per cent, or 100,000
persons, are served by a sewerage system. The tourism areas such as
Montego Bay and Ocho Rios and some of the large resort complexes have their
own sewerage system. In general, sanitation is poor and sewers and sewage
systems are badly maintained.
Sector Organization
30.       Responsibility for the provision of the island's water supply and
sanitation services rest with a statutory body, the National Water
Commission (NWC), and 12 parish councils. The NWC was created in 1980
through the merging of the former Kingston Water Commission and the former
National Water Authority and is responsible for water and sewerage services
in the Kingston metropolitan area and the cities of Montego Bay and
Falmouth. It is governed by a nine-member Board which has the authority to
set policies, hire and fire, establish budgeting programs and make many
other business decisions. The parish councils, which use water mainly
produced by the NWC, are responsible for the administration and operation
of their respective water distribution systems. In 1982 the Government
requested NWC to take over the parish council operations, in the hope that
NWC would be able to improve the management of and reduce Government
subsidies to the parish council systems. NWC's own institutional weak-
nesses, however, have so far militated against this strategy (see
para. 48).
31.       The NWC is under the Ministry of Public Utilities, Communications
and Transportation (MPUT) which, since 1982, has had the responsibility for
the administrative, financial and technical supervision of the NWC, as
well as for making recommendations to the Cabinet with regard to tariff
increases. The MPUT shares responsibility with the Ministry of Agriculture
for the country's irrigation activities. The Ministry of Finance and
Planning (MOF) monitors the NWC's financial performance and coordinates its
external financing. The Jamaica National Investment Corporation (JNIC), a
statutory body under the MOF, has recently begun to play an important role
in the sector. The Government is using it temporarily as a vehicle to
carry out special studies and technical assistance including the
recruitment and supervision of consultants who are providing support to the
NWC, and to manage the preparation and execution of selected high-priority
projects for the sector until the institutional capacity of the NWC is
strengthened.



- 10 -
Sector Investments
32.       NWC's investments, which involved primarily the construction of
the second Bank financed water supply project (Loan 1146-JM, 1975) as well
as rural water supply projects, amounted to US$30 million during the period
FY81/82 - FY82/83. Approximately 50% of this amount was invested in
Kingston and the remaining 50% was invested in the rest of the country.
External assistance, principally in the form of loans from IDB, CDB and the
Bank, has financed 30% of the investment expenditures.
33.       The Government and NWC are planning water supply and sewerage
investments estimated at about US$70 million during the three-year period
FY83/84 to FY85/86. The largest single investment to be undertaken during
that period involves the construction of water intake works and a 17-mile
pipeline whereby 15.0 million I. gal. per day of water will be added to
existing supplies for the Kingston metropolitan area (the Yallahs River
project). The estimated cost of this project is US$20 million, which will
be financed by a combination of Government loans, bonds and suppliers?
credit. Pipes have already arrived in Kingston, negotiations for pipe lay-
ing and related work are underway, and the whole project is scheduled to be
finished by the end of FY85/86. The project is being implemented through a
newly-created subsidiary of the JNIC. However, the Government has
indicated that the NWC will operate and maintain these facilities once
construction is completed, and will be responsible for repaying funds
borrowed for the project. The Government would ensure that the Yallahs
River project is completed in a timely fashion (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
34.       The remaining portion of the FY83/84 - FY85/86 investment program
(US$50 million) would be implemented by NWC. US$18 million would be alloc-
ated to Kingston, mainly for the completion of several ongoing water supply
and sewerage projects and for the proposed technical assistance project,
and US$32 million would be allocated to rural areas, chiefly for the com-
pletion of the IDB-financed Mandeville water supply scheme, the purchase of
vehicles and equipment, and the construction of other water supply pro-
jects.   Ongoing or committed external financing is estimated to finance
about 30%, or US$15 million, and Government loans and grants about 60% or
about US$30 million. NWC's contribution would amount to about 10%, or US$5
million. This level of internal cash generation is within the NWC's
capacity, provided that the NWC achieves the financial and operational
targets established under the proposed project. Detailed investment plans
for the period beyond FY85/86 have not yet been prepared, but would be
completed as part of the proposed project.
NWC Tariffs
35.       NWC's current tariff structure (Annex 4), which was approved in
October 1983, is applied uniformly throughout the island, and is highly
progressive with only two consumer categories: domestic, and commercial
and industrial. The tariff for domestic users begins with a flat monthly
minimum charge of J$6.50 for consumption up to 3,000 I.gal./month and rises
to J$7.40 per 1,000 I.gal./month for consumption in excess of 20,000
I.gal/month. Commercial and industrial users pay a uniform rate of J$7.40



- 11 -
per 1,000 I.gal/month. Sewerage charges are based on the volume of water
billed (45% for domestic users and 100% for commercial accounts).
Unmetered domestic customers (about 20% of total customers) pay a fixed fee
of J$6.50/month for water, plus J$2.93 for sewerage. The average water
tariff in January 1984 was J$3.44 per 1000 I. gal. (US$.23/m3) and the
combined water supply and sewerage tariff was J$6.00 per 1000 I. gal.
(US$.38/m3) for those customers with both water and sewerage services. The
J$6.50 flat minimum water tariff for a minimum consumption block is equal
to about 2% of the relative poverty family income of J$290 per month, a sum
well within such a family's ability to pay. Among the deficiencies of the
present tariff structure are an excessively large minimum consumption
block, a low fixed charge for unmetered consumption, the lack of financial
penalties for late payment of bills, and a failure to reflect different
costs of providing services, particularly between systems with high and low
pumping costs. The existing tariff structure would be reviewed under the
proposed project (see para. 51).
Sector Objectives
36.       As a subscriber to the goals of the International Water Supply
Decade (IWSD) Jamaica is committed to provide safe, reliable and adequate
water and sanitation facilities to all members of its population. However,
although some priority investments for the sector have been identified
(para. 33 and 34), there is no general Government plan of action to meet
the IWSD targets. Thus, there is a need for the Government and NWC to
establish realistic service-level goals and to translate these into a
corresponding long-term investment plan. Service goals and related
investment need to be carefully assessed in light of the economy's overall
fiscal and foreign exchange constraints.
37.       The Government has identified several other major objectives for
the sector which can be summarized as follows:
(a)   to improve the efficiency and effectiveness in the operations and
management of the NWC;
(b)   to complete the merger of the island's urban and parish council
potable water and sewerage sector activities under the aegis of
the NWC; and
(c)   to effect a substantial reduction in the annual budgetary alloca-
tions for water supplies to parish councils while maintaining the
social policy requirement of providing basic water and sanitation
services affordable to the poor rural areas.
38.       Under the aegis of its structural adjustment program,
which has as one of its central focuses the financial and managerial
rationalization of public enterprises, the Government has taken a number of
actions in support of these objectives. In 1981, Government directed the
JNIC to prepare a comprehensive management audit of the NWC. The major
recommendation of that audit was that external technical assistance was
required to fortify the management, financial and technical functions of



- 12 -
the NWC. The Government accepted this recommendation and contracted with
Camp, Dresser & McKee, a well-qualified consulting firm, for the provision
of such services over a one-year period, starting in March 1983. The
Government then reinforced this action in October 1983 by approving a
financial recovery program for the NWC and enacting substantial tariff
increases for water and sewerage services.
Prior Bank Projects in the Sector
39.        The Bank has been providing assistance to the water supply and
sewerage sector in Jamaica since 1969. The first Bank loan (Loan No.
598-JM for US$5.0 million) was made to the Kingston Water Commission (KWC)
to finance the foreign exchange component of a US$9.1 million water proj-
ect. The project consisted mainly of the development of groundwater sour-
ces and improvements to the water transmission and distribution facilities
for Kingston. The construction of the project was completed in 1976, some
four years later than expected, and with a cost overrun of about 30%. The
main reasons for the delay were revisions to project specifications and
difficulties with the performance of local civil works contractors. The
cost overrun was mainly due to higher than expected price increases and the
prolonged construction period. The project performance audit report (No.
1822 of December 13, 1977) states that the principal problem was the
decline in the quality of senior management during the project period.
40.        To reverse the decline in the KWC's  management performance, the
second Loan (No. 1146-JM, US$15.0 million signed in 1975 to finance
improvements in the water supply and sewerage systems for Kingston)
required the appointment of qualified key managers. Technical assistance
was also provided under the project. For a time, under the direction of a
new, dynamic General Manager, the KWC's operations and finances improved
considerably. But in 1980, the loss of several key managers left the
newly-created NWC with a weak management team. The result was a steady
deterioration in services and NWC's finances. This decline is reflected in
NWC's poor performance under Loan 1146-JM. Although the loan was closed as
of year-end 1982, construction of some project components will not be com-
pleted until August 1984, five years past the appraisal schedule. Largely
because of poor management and a lack of counterpart financing which caused
project-related delays, the total cost of the project is expected to reach
US$48 million, or about 45% above the original appraisal estimate.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
41.        The current Government's policies and actions to strengthen the
NWC offer an opportunity for correcting the financial and management
problems which led to disappointing results under the previous Bank loans.
The Bank's future lending strategy for the sector is to support efforts to
reform and revitalize the NWC. This would be accomplished as a first step
through the proposed loan, which, instead of financing major investments,
focuses mainly on institutional improvement, planning and rehabilitation.
The sector strategy is fully consistent with the Bank's overall lending
strategy for the country which is aimed at supporting the Government's
economic recovery program. This program gives strong emphasis to increased
efficiency of public enterprises like the NWC.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
42.       In November 1982, the Government requested additional Bank
financing for extensions to the Kingston Water Supply and Sewerage System.
The Bank indicated that actions would have to be taken to improve the
performance of NWC before a new loan to NWC could be considered. In the
meantime the Government had already started a management audit of NWC and
in early 1983 decided to recruit consultants to provide management and
operational technical assistance to NWC. Subsequently, a Technical
Assistance and Engineering project for NWC was prepared based on the
Government's resolution to strengthen NWC by finalizing the technical
assistance contract being negotiated and by adopting a financial plan, to
enable NWC to become financially viable within three years (para. 38).
The project was appraised in January/February 1984. Negotiations were held
in Washington in April 1984. The Jamaican delegation was led by Mr. Harold
Milner, Financial Secretary.
Project Objective and Scope
43.       The principal objective of the project is to assist the
Government in transforming NWC into a financially sound and well-managed
utility providing adequate service. In order to upgrade the water supply
and sewerage services provided by NWC, the proposed project would provide
about 330 man-months of management and other technical assistance as well
as the supporting project elements necessary to optimize the effectiveness
of such assistance, improve NWC's finances, and reduce the Government's
support to NWC. Specifically, the project would:
(a)   strengthen NWC's overall managerial capabilities, with particular
emphasis on financial, commercial, engineering and maintenance
aspects, and train NWC staff in those areas;
(b)   eliminate bottlenecks in the Kingston area water distribution
system to accommodate increased flow resulting from the Yallahs
water scheme, scheduled to be completed in 1986;
(c)   ensure that any takeover by the NWC of the parish council water
distribution systems is done in a prudent and gradual manner so
as to protect the operational and financial integrity of the NWC;
(d)   finance the rehabilitation of priority water supply and sewerage
facilities;
(e)   prepare medium-and long-term investment programs for NWC; and
(f)   investigate and promote, where suitable, the use of low-cost and
appropriate technology.



- 14 -
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would be implemented over the period
1984-1990 and would include:
(a)   a management improvement program (US$3.8 million or 32% of
project cost) comprising technical assistance which will be
provided over a two year period by counterparts, on a one-to-one
basis, to each of NWC's six key managers. The program includes
the improvement of operations and maintenance; the installation
of uniform cost accounting, inventory control, financial systems,
and a modernized billing system; preparation of a tariff study,
and the purchase of micro-computers and required software for the
principal divisions dealing with personnel, accounting,
construction supervision reporting, and operations. Training of
NWC staff is also included. The training program has been
reviewed by Bank staff and found satisfactory. It is expected
that the management improvement component would be substantially
completed in two years; however, the absolute shortage of skilled
staff in Jamaica could result in the need to extend such
support. In that instance, the Government would need to identify
additional financing.
(b)   support facilities improvements and rehabilitation (US$2.8 mil-
lion or 23% of project cost) comprising the upgrading of work-
shops, stores and offices at Marescaux Road in Kingston, procure-
ment of trucks, water pumps and spare-parts, chlorination equip-
ment and emergency power generators. Included are consultants
services for design of Marescaux Road facilities, and for
maintenance equipment and staff training;
(c)   water distribution and system management improvements in Kingston
(US$0.8 million or 7% of project cost) including the remodeling
and refurbishing of system mapping facilities, supply and update
system maps, development of a computer model of the water
distribution system, and preparation and execution of a program
to reduce unaccounted-for water;
(d)   construction of water transmission improvements in Kingston
(US$2.2 million or 18% of project cost) comprising 10,000 ft. of
about 24" feeder pipe from Matilda's Corner into the system and
minor works to eliminate system bottlenecks; and
(e)   sewer system maintenance upgrading in Kingston (US$2.4 million or
20% of project cost) including restoration and rehabilitation of
the principal sewage treatment facilities with replacement of
mechanical and electrical equipment and the provision of sludge
disposal capability, acquisition of some sewer maintenance equip-
ment, and hiring of consultants for specialized training.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
45.       The project costs net of taxes and duties, from which NWC is
exempt, are estimated at US$12.0 million, with US$9.0 million in foreign



-15 -
exchange costs proposed to be financed by a Bank loan and the remaining
US$3.0 million coming from NWC's internal cash generation. The Borrower
would be the Government, which would onlend the proceeds of the loan to NWC
on the same terms and conditions. NWC would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)). Cosits are based on
April 1984 prices. Physical contingencies are assessed at 10%. Price
contingencies are derived from the following estimates of international
inflation and were calculated on the basis of the US$ base costs: 3.5% per
annum in 1984; 8.0% in 1985; 9% during 1986-88; and 7-1/2% thereafter.
Cost estimates were prepared using the data obtained by the technical
assistance consultants from recent civil works contracts in Jamaica and
unit cost data for supply elements furnished by the consultants' home
office in the US. The technical assistance costs are bas.Žd on those of
similar internationally-recruited experts in Jamaica. For a breakdown of
costs per project component, see Annex 5. UNDP and other potential
multilateral and bilateral sources of technical assistance were unable to
provide-financing for the purposes of the project.
Institutional Assessment and Improvements
46.        In the past, the NWC's management, operational and administrative
performance has been less than satisfactory. Since March 1983, however,
this situation has improved with the arrival of a team of management
consultants. These consultants have focused their efforts to date on
helping to improve operating efficiency, establishing clear lines of
command within NWC, developing a comprehensive management information
system, instituting improved maintenance procedures, preparing a three-year
financial plan and budget, and drafting improved personnel policies and
procedures. They have also begun to revise NWC's accounting systems which,
although adequate to record financial and project-related transactions,
need to be streamlined and consolidated to reflect the merger of the
Kingston Water Commission and the National Water Authority. While the
results achieved by the consultants so far are good, additional technical
assistance is needed if NWC is to attain its goal of financial and
operational self-sufficiency. A brief institutional assessment of the NWC
along with the proposed technical assistance objectives is presented in
Annex 6. This assistance would be provided to the NWC under the proposed
project by financing the continuation of the consultants' services for two
additional years. Other measures aimed at improvement of NWC's management
and operations include: (a) implementation, by no later than December 31,
1984 of revised personnel policies and procedures; (b) preparation of
comprehensive accounting, financial and management information systems by
September 30, 1985 and implementation of such systems by March 31, 1986;
(c) implementation, by March 31, 1985 of a fully integrated billing and
customer account system; (d) development of an inventory control system by
September 30, 1985 and implementation, by March 31, 1986 of this system;
and (e) establishment of a program for standardizing pumps, motors and
other commonly-used equipment by no later than December 31, 1985. (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.04, Schedule 2).
47.        The NWC has already taken steps to improve the efficiency of its
operations by instituting a hiring freeze and by gaining the Government's
agreement that the NWC would not be required to retain redundant employees,



- 16 -
particularly those involved in parish council water supply operations that
may be transferred in the future to NWC. To promote achievement of
additional efficiency during project implementation, a set of monitoring
indicators (Annex 7) which, inter alia, would provide for gradual reduction
the number of employees per thousand urban water connections (from 23 to
16) and in the level of months sales in accounts receivable (from 6.7
months to 3.0 months) was agreed at negotiations. It was also agreed that
the Government and the Bank would jointly undertake an annual review of the
effectiveness of NWC management, with the first review to take place before
February 28, 1985 and the recommendations of the review to be implemented
by March 31 of each year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
48.       Among the most difficult challenges facing the NWC is the planned
takeover of the parish council water schemes. This takeover, which is
currently scheduled to be completed by the end of 1986, would result in a
two-fold increase in NWC's customer base to 190,000 water connections and
would add about 800 new employees to its staff. The Government has
indicated that once the takeover is completed, the NWC alone would be
responsible for generating sufficient revenues to cover the costs of
operating and maintaining these schemes. However, at existing NWC tariff
levels, projected revenues from parish council operations would cover less
than half of their projected operating and maintenance costs, assuming that
an effective commercial operation for the parishes can be introduced. In
view of NWC's weak financial and managerial positions, the takeover process
would need to be carefully planned and executed if both urban and rural
water supply operations are not to be adversely affected. NWC and the
Government have initiated a study to identify a realistic program and
timetable for the takeover of the parish council systems. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that, before December 31, 1984, the NWC would
develop a financial program and procedures to ensure that the takeover of
any parish council water operation will proceed in an orderly fashion and
that the financial viability (para. 50) and staffing goals of the NWC would
be protected. Any takeovers would be carried out by NWC in a manner and
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.09).
Financial Analysis and Covenants
49.       NWC financial performance in FY82/83 was very weak; it
experienced an operating loss and a negative cash flow which was covered by
deferring current obligations. This was the result of low sales due to
production constraints, excessive operating costs, poor collections of
overdue accounts and inadequate tariffs, and overall ineffective
management. However, the Government and NWC have taken measures to reverse
this situation through the implementation in October 1983 of a financial
recovery program for the NWC, and the improvements in its managerial
capabilities referred to in para. 46 above. This program provides for
reductions in operating costs through stricter control of personnel and
energy expenses, rescheduling and refinancing of NWC's debt, intensified
collection efforts, Government budgetary support to cover most of the
production costs of providing water to the parish councils, and tariff
increases for both urban and rural customers, which averaged 40%, effective
November 1, 1983. Nevertheless, since the financial program was approved
late in the current financial year, NWC's FY83/84 performance is expected



- 17 -
to result in a small net operating loss and a negative cash flow which will
be financed by a commercial bank overdraft. At the time of appraisal, the
rescheduling of NWC's debt and the payment of past due Govenment accounts
had not yet been implemented. At negotiations, a financial plan for
FY84/85 was agreed, which included, inter alia, firm dates for the
rescheduling of NWC's debt and the payment of past due Government
accounts. The plan provides for the clearing of all Government arrears to
NWC by FY85/86, and would be carried out by the Borrower in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). Initial
implementation of the plan satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(f)).
50.       With the financial program fully in place, NWC's projected
results for FY84/85 show a substantial improvement, with a net operating
income of J$15.8 million for its urban operations and a consolidated net
cash flow of J$21.3 million (Annex 7). To ensure that NWC's financial
viability is protected in subsequent years, the following agreements were
reached at negotiations:
(a) For the major urban areas of Kingston, Montego Bay and
Falmouth, revenues will cover operating and maintenance
expenses, debt service for NWC's consolidated operations or
depreciation on revalued fixed assets, whichever is higher,
and increases in working capital. In addition, revenues
would be expected to contribute not less than 10% of capital
expenditures starting in FY84/85, increasing gradually to
30% by FY88/89 and remaining at this level thereafter
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03);
(b) For the remainder of NWC's operations, revenues would be
raised gradually to cover as a minimum operating and
maintenance costs resulting in a reduction in the working
ratio (operating and maintenance costs divided by operating
revenues) for these operations from 1.20 in FY84/85 to 1.0
in FY86/87 and thereafter (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.04).
(c) At the beginning of each NWC financial year, the Government
would adopt a program in consultation with the Bank which
would make available to the NWC a contribution sufficient to
cover the sum of the projected gap between total sources of
funds (including revenues, loans, grants, and other
contributions) and operating and maintenance costs for NWC's
operations outside of the major urban areas and the
projected level of funds necessary to finance capital
expenditures for these operations (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06). The objectives of this program would be to
gradually phase out Government subsidies for the operation
of rural and parish council water supply schemes by the end
of project execution.
51.       The financial projections presented in Annex 7 assume that tariff
increases for major urban operations would be approximately in line with
average projected domestic inflation over the next six years. Tariffs for



- 18 -
parish council operations are projected to increase much more steeply, in
compensation for their present relatively low levels and consistent with
the Government's policy of covering parish council operating expenditures
from corresponding operating revenues. The relative levels of urban/parish
council tariffs and the advisability of urban-rural cross subsidy needs to
be carefully reviewed. In addition, NWC's tariff structure needs to be
revised to correct certain deficiencies identified at appraisal (para.
35). Accordingly, agreement was reached during negotiations that the NWC
would prepare a tariff study satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1984
and implement its recommendations by June 30, 1985 (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.10). The study would take into account, inter alia,
the ability of customers to pay for water supply and sewerage and the
recommended structure will include provisions to keep basic water services
affordable to the poor.
52.       NWC's debt service ratio, projected to be 2.8 in FY84/85, would
drop to 2.0 in FY86/87, and remain at about that level through the end of
project execution. The sharp drop in the ratio in FY86/87 reflects mainly
the first annual debt-service payments on borrowings for the Yallahs River
Scheme. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the NWC would obtain
the Bank's consent before incurring any debt which would cause the debt
service ratio to drop below 1.5 (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.05).
In addition, NWC would annually prepare and execute a three-year investment
plan in consultation with the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.08). The Government would consult with the Bank prior to undertaking any
sector investment costing more than US$500,000 not included in the NWC
investment plan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
53.       Although fixed assets for NWC's Kingston operations were properly
revalued under Loan 1146-JM, the revaluation needs to be updated, as gaps
exist in subsequent records. Furthermore, NWC's fixed assets outside of
Kingston have not yet been inventoried. Following the completion of its
mapping studies but by not later than March 31, 1986, NWC plans to prepare
a complete inventory and revaluation of fixed assets for its urban
operations (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.06). As part of the
takeover of new water supply and sewerage operations, the NWC would also
prepare an inventory and revaluation of the fixed assets of such operations
(draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.07.)
Audit Report
54.       Under Loan 1146-JM, the NWC was consistently delinquent in
submitting its audit reports to the Bank. The problem will be corrected
under the proposed project through the implementation of improved
accounting, financial and control systems. To this end, agreement was
reached at negotiations that for FY83/84, FY84/85 and FY85/86, NWC would be
allowed six months after the close of its financial year to complete and
provide its audit report to the Bank. In subsequent years, the NWC agreed
to furnish the Bank with this report within four months of the close of its
financial year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02(b)).



- 19 -
Procurement
55,       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Arrangements _J
(US$ million)
Procurement                 Total
Project Element           ICB       LCB       Other            Cost
Civil Works                .8        1.5         -              2.3
(.4)      (.7)        -)(1.1)
Equipment                 4.4         -         .8              5.2
(3.6)      ()        (.6)             (4o. )
Services                  2.3         -       2.2               4.5
(1.9)       (-)     (1.8)             (3.7)
Total               7.5        1.5       3.0             12.0
(5.9)       (.7)    (2.4)             (9.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be
financed by the Bank loan.
56.       All procurement for contracts in amounts over US$100,000 will be
subject to prior Bank review. Procurement of civil works, materials and
equipment estimated to cost over US$500,000 for each contract, would be
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts with an estimated cost less
than US$500,000 and more than US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.5 million (13% of total project cost) would be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding, locally advertised, conducted in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.   Other contracts for miscellaneous
services, equipment and works, with an estimated cost below US$100,000 but
not exceeding an aggregate of US$1.0 million, would be procured on the
basis of negotiated purchases after solicitation of price quotation from
at least three established and reliable suppliers (Schedule 1 to the draft
Project Agreement). All technical assistance personnel and consulting
services under the project would be selected and recruited in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981) (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
Project Implementation
57.       The NWC with the support of the technical assistance team would
have the responsibility for the execution of the project, with the
exception of the recruitment of management technical assistance which would
be the responsibility of JNIC. JNIC has substantial experience in the
recruitment and contracting of consultants, and has been actively involved
in the Government's program to improve the management of public
enterprises. Execution of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between
JNIC and NWC, covering the administration of the management technical
assistance, would be a condition for loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(e)). It is expected that three members of the
present technical assistance team will continue under a new Bank-financed



- 20 -
contract. The terms of reference for the technical assistance positions
have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. Among its other
responsibilities, the management technical assistance team would be in
charge of the execution of the other project components on behalf of NWC
during the first two years of project implementation. A detailed
implementation schedule prepared by NWC consultants has been reviewed and
agreed by NWC and the Bank. Preparation of bidding documents has been
started and in view of the limited design work required for the project, it
is expected that procurement will start by November 1984.
Disbursement
58.       Disbursement of the Loan would be made as follows:
(a)   100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for supply of
equipment, pipes and accessories, spare parts and vehicles
(US$3.6 million);
(b)   50% of expenditures for civil works (US$0.8 million);
(c)   100% of expenditures for consultant's services and training
(US$3.2 million);
(d)   front-end fee of US$22,444;
(e)   initial advance for Special Account (US$0.5 million);
(f)   unallocated (US$0.9 million).
59.       Disbursements would be against standard documentation for all
items except those under US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements would
be made against statements of expenditures (SOE) certified by NWC. The
period of disbursements is estimated at 6 years, with a loan closing date
of December 31, 1990. The disbursement period is two years shorter than
the general disbursement period for loans to Jamaica, because of the
historically faster execution of technical assistance projects.
60.       Bank disbursements would include up to US$400,000 for retroactive
financing to cover the costs of extending project-related consulting
services incurred after February 4, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4) provided by Camp, Dresser, and McKee.
Special and Project Accounts
61.       In order to reduce the interval between the time payments would
be made by the Borrower and receipt of reimbursement from the Bank, a
Special Account would be established in the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) from an
advance of loan proceeds. At the same time, the Government would establish
and fund a Project account in the BOJ. The establishment of these accounts
and the funding of the Project Account would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c) and (d)). The Special
Account would be denominated in US Dollars and would be maintained at about
US$0.5 million, equivalent to projected average quarterly disbursements.
The Project Account would be established with an initial deposit of



- 21 -
J$2.0 million (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)(ii)). The Project
Account would be promptly replenished through withdrawal from the Special
Account and from the NWC's counterpart funds (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(d)(iii). The Government would request replenishment of the Special
Account by the Bank through standard disbursement procedures. Conversion
from US Dollars to Jamaican Dollars would be made at the official exchange
rate prevailing on the date the payment was made, if the payment took place
no more than 60 days before the withdrawal request. Otherwise, the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of the withdrawal would be used (draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 4).
Project Justification and Risks
62.       The project is designed so as to make a major contribution to
improving urban water supply and sanitation services for Jamaica as a whole
and for Kingston in particular. It will permit better utilization of the
existing assets in the sector and will help strengthen the Government's
overall fiscal position. As it is difficult to quantify the benefits of
the proposed project, an economic rate of return was not calculated;
however, the project is likely to have substantial economic benefits.
Success of the project will depend on the Government's continued commitment
to improve public enterprise management. In addition, the absolute
shortage of skilled personnel in Jamaica is a source of risk and could
require the extension of management technical assistance beyond the
two-year period envisioned in the project, for which the Government would
need to identify additional financing.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and NWC, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Establishment
of the Special Account; establishment and funding of the Project Account;
contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank between the Borrower and
NWC, and between NWC and JNIC; and initial implementation satisfactory to
the Bank of the financial plan agreed at negotiations would be conditions
of loan effectiveness. Other special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 3, 1984



-22 -                                            Annex I
T A B L E  3A                             Page  1  of  6
JAMAICA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
'6  RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/6      197G    ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB               EUROPE
AREA (T13OUSAND SO,. RM)
TOTAL                                 11.0        11.0        II.(
AGRICULTURAL                           4.9         4.9         4.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    410.0       710.0      1180.0              2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      654.0       1405.0      1440.0              1407.6                    1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1629.0       1877.0      2194.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         33.7        37.2        41.9                65.9                      47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KY.                        148.2       170.F       197.6                35.6                      82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            332.4        387.0       462.1                93.2                     157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           41.7        47.0        40.1                40.1                      31.9
15-64 YRS                           54.0        47.5        53.9                55.8                      60.9
65 AND ABOVE                         4.3         5.6         6.0                 4.1                       7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                1.5/c       1.4/c       1.4/c               2.3                       1.6
URBAN                                2.5         2.4         2.5                 3.7                       3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          39.4        35.3        28.9                31.5                      25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           9.4         7.6         6.3                 8.1                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6         2.6         1.8                 2.0                       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TdOUS)             ..        19.3        27.0/d
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEK OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        98.0         99.0        87.0               113.0                     108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REOUIREMENTS)       94.0        111.0       119.0               111.3                     129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            58.0        67.0        64.0                67.9                      92.3
OF WHICH AINMAL AND PULSE          28.0        33.0        34.0/e              34.1                      34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            3.1         1.2         0.3                 5.3                      10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         64.2        68.6         71.2               64.6                      67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         51.5        32.2        16.2                62.6                      71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               20.9/h      62.0        86.0/d              64.8
URBAN                               64.6717    100.0       Ioo.07h              77.B                        .
RURAL                                5.7717     48.0         79.07d             44..3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        94.0        94.0/d              54.6
URBAN                                 ..       100.0       io0.o77              69.8
RURAL                                  '        92.0        9I.o07d             29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2590.0       2640.0      2830.0              1776.0                    1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              420.0/k    1730.0       630.0             '.012.2                     762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              240.0       240.0       260.0/f             477.0                     334.0
URBAN                             200.0/8      220.0           ..              667.5                     216.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        17.0         19.0/f             27.2                      20.0
HODS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.9         4.3
URBAN                                2.7          .            .
RURAL                                4.8                                       ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9         1.6
URBAN                                1.6          ..
RURAL                                2.O          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN 7,
RURAL                                 ..          ..
…-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- - - - _ _ _- - --__ _- - --__ _- --__ _ _- --__ _- - --__ _- - -



- 23 -                                         Annex I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
JAFAICA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) La
MOST                      (HOST RECENT EST!4ATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE YNCCF2E
1960/b      1970/  ESTDMA,d/b    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    92.0       119.0        99.0               105.0                    102.2
MALE                    92.0       119.0        98.0               tO6.3                    107.2
FEFALE                  93.0       119.0       100.0               103.6                     97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   45.0        46.0        57.0                40.0                     56.5
MALE                    44.0        46.0        54.0                38.6                     63.4
FEMALE                  46.0        45.0        60.0                41.2                     48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           9.0         5.5         2.3/i              34.0                     22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            56.0        47.0        41.0                30.7                     24.7
SECONDARY                          21.0        26.0        22.0/i              16.7                     22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              81.9        95.4        90.0                79.5                     69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          20.3        38.5           *                45.6                     52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         90.2       266.4       331.0               228.2                    165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             7.0        37.3         76.9              108.3                    124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             62.0       113.6         59.6               64.1                     96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..         0.2/f               2.9                      2.9
IABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           607.0       634.0        809.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2        38.8        39.9                24.8                     34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.0        29.5         21.4               31.3                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 24.9        25.6        25.2                23.9                     23.4
PARTICIPATION RATF (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              37.3        33.8         36.9               31.3                     42.0
MALE                               48.7        42.4        45.2                49.8                     55.2
FEMALE                             26.7        25.6        28.9                14.8                     29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2         1.6         1.2                 1.4                      0.9
INCaME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOF2E
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS           30.2/          .
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          6    i.2..
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS            2.2..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS            8.2,
POVERTY TARGET CROUS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..       501.0/e            289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       439.07e             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               5* -*                  SB5.0/e            519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..        509.0o7W           372.1                    409.0
ESTI.MATED POP. BELOW ABSOLiUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         80.0/e
.NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weIghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries amoang the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estiate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c Due to migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1975; /e 1977; /f 1974; /g 1962;
/h Percentage of housing units with piped water; /i 1976; LI 1958; /k 1963.
May 1983



-24 -                                                                                 Annex I
Paget 3f 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL !NISATORDSI
Notoc   ttlnogh  he  o tocrcdroo frm  cerce   geerer .(dge .th   most auhoritate  and reIa.ble, it eboold eic  be noted that they say net be 1tn -tsenasellY
comparabl  beosese   f tne lac   of ercoordleed dfioltiensand concpts otsd by different. ceanrie  in cl-ectin  the d.tc.  The data. .  .re,nestbelc...e, cefe1 te
denrin   ea nc o  sgeio d   tdic-e trends, end ch r..tern-  ceresin  major differ-enoAhrrst_-                otic
Therefren    goop  or  (1 .t   . sae cocony groc  of tbe sojet      tnony end (2) a coontrY greopo-ith  -nsahab highe -t sncag  incns  thee the ootey gScmp of sibs
cobjechccontny  (soceri itt "Shob Incest  Oi  tEponie-`s"  t.p ohero "hiddlr Incom   hIt  Araen Middle font  to chosenhec..e. fetoersi-srei
groo   hasdecofor  han  cd lche.  Sinc  theecro    fcools               og the  nicsr d        epends:'   on the.  aolait   f dot  cnd is  o    tio.  ctIDt mot be
eoerited  Do colottg sorrgec  of  ben  hodl--cter. snother.  The.ea. rcem   retoy e..efo1 in c_parin   thI                     ao    foeldceo                 iecegthe reentry cad
_eforoee drops.
Tnal-Tor    Ifntoc   acne  c-nthitig lccd ante and les-dase; 1960,                                   phsossqclidfrmasdcltbo     toolnrsp  lnIvel.
1970 etd 1900 dato                                           .                                         Poreltion  per tN-rel   Pereot-  Popelaios ditided by seabr af peatOriag
Agric-lnora1 -MIectisn   of ogrLc_ltoraI aree oed teeperarily or Pe roso.eti                              sole end tessel   n-daate tenes             ..is.n   tro,Prectinc  sss.1        m
for crops, .ps    -ta ek-c and fitch-c gndoos or to lie  isllos; 1900,                                  tesnb      oo-ohs
1971 cod 1900 data.                                                      Popootlonear tispt            d e  - toni   rbt      n  Otl-Foeatc  rcl
oelcolctod by sas   otrtie   echod asAol   ekAts(179-01 bamis);                                            rbniiaisroes    smiasaeetbiiset    emssl   tfe
1905, 197,  and 1901 daabyltlas                                                                                               phsI-a.   oabisee            d -pr-odia  prhie.      yentds
EA.k A..'                                                                                                          (t.tae  e  nrinhdo.Osc    osial,hesot   stoo   elt   a
~~-PIION PER  erer, r.b.1-pt -hsptas,lod   e  rra  hsytal  adfed--lan  sterit  rstr.
data.                                                                               Eros hospitals dirided  by the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~de.,::  Yosber of beds.Oli.  bltb
ditrt    eIcito    o       krhaerea   sop afftcitcoeperebhinyfet dataP0t051t
ome   concrso;190, 170,scd190  dis.beecosurnof  eocbol  Itrsoc   or  eosboll -totl.  rba, ed erm
Po    -din  oya 01980       rntppicinpoetin    r   esdo   90                                       o    tirsMte-s l              oreroeooe   c   esa   o   eiclddi
ree.yr(cidnparYo-      r  for....  Ae rca jl l, rate  c1o6r0a   of70 thre                   Anregm r  f  ero             drt  oe   --I total,  orat   ndtta  ae1g    sa
caialcmeiel   o  Onl  ot  oeinpaihhnt  c   75d    h-itga,   dirpectdnly.  beh,   ga enciedo--L Io-ps tsacothtdoii-S.
pratt.  The peranotons Eon inethhihe  tort elan boon hIrer lnnsla  atoocopied  parts. ~      ~    ~
aP  igdciei   otI  t   codn   oInorloledpo    slpAcs   otan iotac (peceo   ofdoliss       otl  obe  adrfa
cohot 9t   f  otl cy oe   fart Ilc    rnofrpoet o    opsa                                     ftciI , ora,  n  rrl  el iharc  eney
oi_c  the~ bit   arI   qa   otedahrt,edao   h   t                                                 Of therO5
pooot0 Yho   0  oalohn      -d the bain oft            - br(cncetedct98-                     pdAa bcoi-g           .pp iathots    oclip.  _oydsoidenaetbi
lolc    f  I  yploie   tti   oo  20,  t  coranofdcln   ofyerehcado rd fa  dIFfere f lenghs  f  rise   aatttt;fo
fori  ir   rte   or plc-ent Irel.tOttlOIaitceteed ndcaio   enolmn   55c' onse  100 pe dee
pepelaoon  leosec                                                                                ndostiocteohcen  o  InIslOnceIyoro of  pprend p-itse  i... ,tia
Per  an  ho.     Sid-ncr rrohatie i pot  , sqa    - ilo tct(l  hecas I-oecoda   nse,ooaln     o   ece  trainin                                                  in itocio    ....r
Per_~ Ice   gicloa -"- 1lend - fctpotrd   n ac  Coy  trioltrallar                                         Emrll  tclyad Pd        r
eolc~  ISIS, 1971aed £902 data.                                                    Vcacloialniroliost  (cercent of seondary) - locanisotrinstftdtlam
_oonindtitott    ttnt    Ohildtot (                fl years),  tIt0-ogr_ (I-irastcnia,odsra    rohrrora   erchoers isdep._I
royoltlet  1960  197, and19ledata      Flne-Pachr                                                             rtI   -  rlsryIan   sendayToa  sadent  esAlidi
Ppltll   OrolIb foto 0~ cernif-tal-r  arnPld.trosth  raesotiomd-Ficn   no    codor  .nee. 1dln I                                  i       de   b  nahro         rethrhi  ther oe.t
prr                          Thltcefc   91-I    t9171  sd1h 197-01   -desyOcdttt loenisT.I
peoolo hfc13-0,16-0  tn   17)SI                                                                  apacecgeoftoaladS  popilatio  aged 1  yeses. ad. sa..    .
fer feplaIhon;  196, 1         h1 and 1901 0 dt.,d                                            ODfiilfthldPIgOt-I
Inodo  heath   for  )pr iepleiand    I--    o  de' tt    her Inaned of sd-ps-far-b. dssoor   ar                           crthoosadifforaatloe4l -   fesrogt  er   e                 fprseesc
he  tornel_ ,ttdcto   oi-    it n-hn  TfoheoY-ra   rs  inraeh                                         ladie -or-iyors  (FrP.      oo Araecao)-  lltyeso  rederrefr  e
fetlt    aot   cal   lo-ersoagsedn   n  OS   90  adbedei  to- ger-r-                                                       abioc pler theos.. ed of CepoitlAs  sosede   so-. .
1001.                                                                                       iicenordracnleero_I ~i~   t  -,q,, Is coIrtes... ad , Inper  sen reisrtin_  Orei
of bribcoonoldteieo   ide aP   picto  ofP        n -nenn  Easly  ri-nnina                        coonren   Ebl_Idirolg
PerOl   Flt  -eglor   (pren.          tnacnboae -           FCc-eas-fdarIed                               PrnPrl- p-t1c per1 thnch Iepeletion;  -en             ..odo d  .t.....decas...
nos kfrldbalgen(tO   erloccohrbctrlacircclcctlc   n   nfcoco   rita   o   fT   esasi   fes
P0011970 90001110                                                                                   clrcole bro        dily(crlltro   tseo"    eio   0opnoic
noganrano  nrerad of  oacrj oh I   ore adlbl  etd ccnnatcctrlret   (eg.tIrro  od daIn lthe e ar, f                        in_dledt     shnsn         h ttcat-ho ps.msad-
cofo7ndre  r  cobAd                                                                                    Y gtOt    rdcitc   ahme  yl  olIe Iealtt I
data.I11700  f lOYT
Per  ccci. toso-y   fasole  rerceltof crgo renoohn                  opndfe                              Told   L Abor Force        ri.. ( yooaos  -M .c....cc dlya Ttie   perooss,  -nadi  arme
Y-erg   aqPlcatien  nOI no1  fnds5p0     e    tel6l I            --otr  pe  cc- pita pe                 src-oYend nonaployd lot1 enldinoedb hesnenints                -hd-ta  ti. Ilerb
onperts, ond conoes In shot.  11cr-7,  . so 70r 1 oecooatolff,ano                                comparable; 190,190e       o   11daa
qooifo   sdi   en    rcsfo,adlsso1   itrhtlt                                                             Psl    pece 2         fml   aorfrea  prars  n   oa   abrtre
enoieonsace  eoond  y  e  tnd  o            siPglcol...  ..rd  fo.   oolOrcloe0rrot       ao   oc   nfrag   oeiy    atn    o
Y"' hoo Ithld  (oe; 1906 1-hI,   1970     1 ndC190  doa.IOdNltrc ,etradtca    ecett   fttllbrfre    90
ortd  stph  of, fonpFr h-day   artncplo  foodh Isr def                    i-d on   Cbo.                 'rtcp         tIrhr  Ipreo)-crl  male, and.. g. fol-ptcpaios
toa  rcte6e, o19hc7 1  aoe    01  he 91  ..   con1ptii. mit160   50  co   91dr.   tn    r   aado    Wsprinpto    c
stnenoat   ethOtte-   of 13  renaoftoa   Frotht fI   and 7). fine                                     relc       -Igar-i      ieceaofteppaaln,adlngrs   ted
efacrealretiestlacre~eorneaerd,yrpendbPP ffeho                                fcenIneosro    fr           blelb ealorcths..  dfp ltl;                .d
diio    rt98      el"o   plt   tgas   o   o;                1960-h, 1970 cod 1977-
Ch-ild  (crn -i)   etn       aeIe    feod -U_cecal doathr pen  -toosa d fTVFRce-otago  ofplctloo   hnhocs   ndbn)-gnndb   ihs
eg   ro    -   rr,t   hlrnI   hs00SOl   o   onaolyo                                                 percent,Hg         t riches  IIpnrr  y        TVa 2 - pr ...t fend po_dt t1 pret.   a
conrtedtsdrin r           onlit  abe;.9h.90  nd.91d,to -                                                       "Iett lld prs."          ..II.;_le                lI ..dT   ..J
1104110                                                                 popooTh  fMlIf 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ItOtr-iei-.t              fn't._                fe,
tooer .f ..elo Inoa    ' Irhe - od rotll  at  roanohr  scdhool  to eaf                          ofIIrdaile.  '   t'Ir   ll-    .rl..._
eate  secet lttloee  toc hd srfacsohoO  otoOntaho, ho                                    In          _Ite   tnitit   Pente  r2itoo Peo troth     .. ( d pen  ca to)   - obotedto
ncotnerpaol lo) co cerre hitso  tedirbl      d -octil     -tpelaticc    Ineso                  tporsto .Id dtona   of tie        . ceno ry. Iranirli    rndfomtere
ortaersopolicfoenaloor- ta- poo  lecte le   e" 165re thn  10  meters                            lor   o.i-hajtootfcbgb    0ho    on   O   reeees
adhy.  to  fcrthclinos   (pe            I,.;o rorlatn     -- ahe-dal,  Eorhac,  sodpe A..
qpnlJSoa sod  iot flar i    rtataldlahilot1960s.                                                                                                               Ma.o 1903.t.   -



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                  Actual                                                Prel.
current prices) -------------------------------------------------------------
1981       1975    1976    1977    1978    1979   1980    1981         1982       1983
PRICES
GDP Deflator (J$:  1974-100)                  121.2   134.0   150.4   1B9.b   219.6   256.0   274.7    298.4    343.2
Exchange Rate (J$ per USS)                      0.91    0.91    1.25    1.48    1.77    1.78    1.78        1.78      2.30
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)               Average Annual Increases (Z)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1974 prices)
1976         1981          1986-         1990     1976-81   1981-86      1983-90
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/
Gross Domestic Product            2939.4         100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0      -1.4        2.0          3.1
Agriculture                      223.9           7.8           8.2         8.2           8.2      -1.0        2.5          3.9
Industry                        1015.2          34.6          30.5        31.3          32.9      -3.7        2.9          4.9
Services                        1700.3          57.6          61.3        60.5          58.9      -0.2        1.5          2.4
Consumption                       2621.3          93.0          86.2         78.5         76.4      -3.0       -0.3          1.6
Gross Domestic Investment          625.4          20.5          17.1         21.2         21.4      -4.4        6.9          6.3
Exports GNFS b/                   1409.2          29.6          34.9         37.2         39.5       2.1        3.9          5.2
Imports GNFS b/                   1716.4         -43.1         -38.2       -36.9         -37.3      -3.7        0.9          2.5
Gross National Savings             250.2          10.2           4.3         13.8         18.4    -14.9        30.3         25.6
As X of GDP                                    Preliminary
1977/7-8     1979180      1981/82      1982/83             1983/84
PUBLIC FINANCE cI
Current Revenue                                 22.0          26.4         27.5        27.6                27.8
Current Expenditure                             28.2          30.6        30.8         31.4                34.7
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                      -6,2          -4.2        -3.3         -3.8                -6.9
Capital Expenditure                             11,3           8.3         12.0        11.4                 8.5
Foreign Finance (net)                            0.7           3.3          9.4         4.7                 9.6
a! At market prices.
b/ Based on balance of payments data.
c/ Fiscal year - April/March 31.  Figures refer to Central Government operations.
d/ Estimated.
April 1984



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 6
JAMAICA:  ECONOIC INDICATORS
1976-81          1981-86            1983-90
OThEl INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (1)                            -1.9               1.5             2.5
GNP per Capita Growth RAte (Z)                 -2.9               0.5             1.5
ICOR                                          -17.7              10.6             5.5
Marginal Savings Rate                            8.0              8.0            35.2
Import Elasticity                               4.6               0.8             0.8
Annual Growth late (Z)
(at constant 1974 prices)
Amount                           ----…- -
Indicator                  (million US$ at                       Actual                                  Eat.       Projected
current prices)       -- ---
1981            1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982            1983    1986       1990
ETRUNAL TRADE
Kerchandise Exports (f.o.b.)    974.0                6.6    -7.0      0.9    -2.1       0.8    -13.2        -2.0      8.3       7.8
Bauxite/Alumina                 760.1             17.2     3.6      0.0      7.4     3.3    -29.7        -21.7      8.0       7.2
Sugar/Bananas                    50.8            -6.1    -7.1    -4.6   -32.7   -12.7         14.3        14.7      3.4       8.1
Other                           163.1            -5.5   -31.4       8.6   -10.9    -1.8       26.7        -2.4    12.4        8.9
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)   1457.4               -5.5    -7.3   -11.3   -11.8    12.5    - 0.3            -5.0     2.9       3.9
Food                            101.9           -21.2      2.7   -31.6    -6.4    22.8        24.6        -1.5      0.8       2.7
Petroleus                       488.8              1.4   -14.7    18.5   -17.8    -2.7    -14.0            0.0      4.8       3.2
Capital Goods                   295.2           -14.8    -7.2   -14.6   -21.3    30.5         17.3       -14.9      2.7       2.7
Other                           571.5           - 9.1   -12.9   -21.8    -2.5    13.3         -4.2        -1.8      2.4       4.2
FIIOcS
Export Price Index *| (1974-100)  -             154.0   248.6   319.4   380.9   379.1    354.3           466.3   966.4   1297.9
Import Price Index (1974-100)       -           125.7   205.8   310.8   369.7   421.7    396.7           481.4   964.9   1301.1
Term _of Trade Index (1974-100)   -             122.5   120.8   102.8   103.0    89.9         89.3        96.9   100.6       99.8
Composition of MerchAndise Trade (S)                     Average  Annual Increasee (2)
(at current prices)                               (at constant 1974 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1981    1986    1990            1971-76  1976-81   1981-86    1983-90
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              -3.0      -0.9        3.7         7.2
uaxite/Alumdna                       49.3    63.9    60.4    78.1    65.9    65.7               -2.5       5.3       -0.2         6.6
Sugar/lananaa                         31.8    14.5    21.6       5.2     8.1      7.9           -6.0    -13.7         9.7         9.4
Other                                 18.9    21.6    18.0    16.7    26.0    26.4              -3.6      -9.7       11.9        10.0
Importu                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              -6.1      -6.5      - 1.0         3.7
Food                                  16.6    13.5    11.6       7.0      7.7     7.3           -7.2    -10.5         0.3         4.0
Petroleum                              8.3     6.3    19.2    33.5    30.3    33.4             -11.9      -3.9        0.8         4.5
Machinery and Equipuent               18.7    29.5    30.9    20.3    21.1    20.0              -7.9      -9.3        0.0         2.8
Other                                 56.4    50.7    38.3    39.2    40.9    39.3              -1.7      -6.8        1.8         3.1
c/ J$ Indices                                                                                                      April 1984



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
JAMAICA - BALANCE OF PAYK DNTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions of UE at current prices)
Actual                                   Est.         Projecteda/
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981         1982    1983      1986      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of GNYS                     887.9   967.4  1078.0  1165.2  1361.7  1402.3  1233.2  1305.5   2070.2    3324.6
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.    656.4   750.6   794.5   814.7   962.7   974.0   767.4   77Z.3   1338.0    2345.0
Imports of GNPS                     1123.5   922.5  1048.1  1220.6  1407.1  1737.3  1629.7  1594.5   2052.7    3150.4
Of which: Merchandise c.i.f.    907.9   756.2   856.6   994.0  1159.6  1457.4  1366.7  13i  0   1682.4    2611.4
Net Factor Services                 -14.0   -93.8  -142.4  -167.2  -212.3  -164.5  -134.2  -25.5   -415.4    -519.5
Net Transfers                          5.8    20.0    25.7    80.0    90.8   124.3   150.4   148.8    189.7           236.9
Current Account Balance               -303.8   -28.9   -86.8  -142.6  -166.9  -375.2  -380.3  -396.8   -208.2    -108.4
Private Direct Investment c/            -0.6    -7.0   -28.8   -26.4    27.6   -11.5   -15.8    na             ns        na
ILT Loans (net)                         79.2    _5.9   178.9    71.1   207.4   240.2   446.0   247.5    175.0            150.0
Other Capital b/                        11.3   -18.1  -201.8   -44.2  -128.8    65.7    38.3    29.3           65.0       75.0
Change in Reserves                     213.9    59.9   138.5   142.1    60.7    80.8   -88.2   120.0    -31.8    -116.6
International Reserves (net)          -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3  -510.1  -630.1   -501.8    -175.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                  179.5    83.0   112.9   171.7   295.8   473.3   581         394       386        401
Project Loans                      31.2    26.6    42.6    32.0    47.8    38.1    41           41        60         75
Specisi Financing                   -       10.4   198.8   125.5   139.5   139.4   231         256       125         74
Other Official                      73.0    71.0   -71.0    20.3   135.1    87.3   122           13       13         31
Government Guaranteed              47.0    38.5    23.3    11.5    50.6    38.4    64           84        90        150
Private Direct (net)               -0.5    -7.0   -26.7   -26.4   -11.0    -2.8    na           na        na         na
Line  of Credit (net)                -      11.3    33.6    11.5    -9.2        5.0    na       na        na         na
Other f/                            18.8   -67.8   -87.7    -2.7   -57.0   167.9   123           -        98         71
Official Debt Outstanding            831.8  .926.2  1036.1   112.0  1313.6  1769.0  2273    2573          3301       3981
Debt Service: Total Service
Pays_nte"f         102.8   159.1   144.6   165.5   177.6   239.4   295          357       516        645
Interest             54.2    66.0    62.2    97.9   126.4   138.1   218          263       341        394
Payments as Z of
Exportse            11.2    16.0    12.8    13.6    12.5    16.4    21.0    25.5           23.7       18.7
(36.7)   (31.3)    (23.3)
Average Interest Rate on Now
Loans (S)                            -       -        -        -       -        -       8.3      8.4      8.7        8.4
Average Maturity of N&w Loans
(year)                              -        -        _        _       -        -     15.1    15.5       11.7       11.3
*/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April I - Karch 31.
b/  Includes errors and omissions.
cI Includes pmyenta of interest to IKI but not principal, *and excludes rescheduled principal paymnts.
d/  Include. private debt and unidentified capital flows.
*/  Figures in brackets include refinancing arrangements.
April 1984



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1984
-US$ million----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                              (less cancellation)
No.    Year    Borrower            Purpose                  Bank  Undisbursed
19 loans fully disbursed 1/                                  360.4
1464    1977    Jamaica             Rural Development          15.0       .9
1516    1978    Jamaica Public    Power                        20.0       .7
Service Co. Ltd.
1517    1978    Sugar Industry    Agriculture                  18.0      2.4
Authority
1716    1979    Jamaica             Forestry                   12.0      1.0
1740    1979    Jamaica             Highways                   16.0       .6
1978    1981    Jamaica             Exports Development        37.0      4.6
Fund
2017    1981    Petroleum Co.       Offshore Petroleum          7.5      4.5
Exploration
2070    1982    Jamaica             Third Education             6.8      5.6
2106    1982    Jamaica             Technical Assistance        6.1      3.0
2107    1982    Jamaica             Kingston Export Free       13.5    12.8
Zone
2188    1982    Jamaica             Power                      30.5    27.5
2293    1983    Jamaica             Highway                    15.0    15.0
2294    1983    Jamaica             Industrial Credit          15.1    15.1
2315    1983    Jamaica             SAL II                     60.2    25.4
2320 2/ 1983    Jamaica             EDF III                    30.1    30.1
2389 3/ 1984    Jamaica             Urban Transport            16.0    16.0
Total (net cancellations)                          598.2
Of which has been repaid                           61.7
Total now outstanding                             536.5
Amount sold                          1.6
Of which has been repaid            1.6              0.0
Total now held by Bank                             536.5
Total undisbursed                                  165.2
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1984
US$ million
Date         Borrower           Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete          0.2        -      0.2
1969   Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                 2.2       0.7      2.9
1980   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers        2.3        -       2.3
1982   Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing               5.0        -       5.0
9.7      0.7    10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments           2.4        -       2.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                7.3       0.7      8.0
Total Undisbursed                                0.1        -       0.1



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
a)  Project first identified:   January 1983
b)  Agency which prepared the project:  NWC
c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  January 1984
d)  Negotiations completed:  April 1984
e)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
a)  The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i) that the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
NWC has been executed (para. 45);
(ii) initial implementation of NWC's FY84/85 financial plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 49);
(iii) agreement between NWC and JNIC satisfactory to the Bank
executed (para. 57); and
(iv) special and project accounts to be opened (para. 61).
b) Other special loan conditions are:
(i) completion of Yallahs River project in a timely and
satisfactory manner (para. 33).
(ii) execution of NWC operational and organizational measures
(para. 46);
(iii) annual review of NWC management effectiveness to be under-
taken (para. 47);
(iv) takeover parish council operations in satisfactory manner
(para. 48);
(v) execution of NWC financial plan (para. 49);
(vi) revenue covenant for NWC (para. 50a, 50b);
(vii) Government commitment to cover NWC revenue gap and capital
expenditures for rural operations (para. 50c);
(viii)  preparation of tariff study by December 31, 1984 and
implementation by June 30, 1985 (para. 51);
(ix) minimum debt service ratio of 1.5 for NWC (para. 52);
(x) preparation of three-year investment plan; and
consultation with Bank concerning investments over
US$500,000 not included in NWC investment plan (para. 52);
(xi) inventory and revaluation of NWC's fixed assets (para. 53);
and
(xii) completion of audit six months after end of NWC's fiscal year
for FY83/84-FY85/86 and four months after end of fiscal year
thereafter (para. 54).



- 31 -
ANNEX 4
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
NWC Tariff Structure
(As of November 1, 1983)
Service Charge (Monthly)
Varies from J$1.45-72.50 according to connection size.
Water Supply Rates (Monthly)
Domestic Consumers (Metered)
Up to 3,000 gallons of flat rate of J$6.50.
For the next 3,000 gallons at the rate of J$3.70 per 1,000 gallons.
For the next 3,000 gallons at the rate of J$4.00 per 1,000 gallons.
For the next 3,000 gallons at the rate of J$5.10 per 1,000 gallons.
For the next 3,000 gallons at the rate of J$6.35 per 1,000 gallons.
For any quantity in excess of 20,000 gallons at the rate of J$7.40
per 1,000 gallons.
Domestic Consumers (Unmetered):
A flat rate of J$6.50 per month.
Commercial and Industrial Consumers:
A rate of J$7.40 per 1,000 gallons.
Sewerage Rates (Monthly)
Domestic:      45% of water billed.
Commercial: 100% of water billed.
Disconnection Fees
Unmetered supply:  J$13.00



- 32 -
ANNEX 5
JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign    Local    Total    %
…-----   (US$ Thousand)--
A. Management Improvement Program
1)  Technical Assistance                    1620       180       1800    20
2) Financial information
system improvement                     600      100        700      8
3)  Billing system improvement               100        50        150     2
4) Microcomputer and software
supply                                 180         -       180      2
Subtotal            2500       330       2830    32
B.  Support Facilities Improvement and Rehabilitation
1) Workshop, stores and office
upgrading                             275        275      550      6
2)  Vehicular fleet upgrading                665         75       740     8
3)  Chlorination equipment upgrading         150         40       190     2
4)  Pump rehabilitation and
standardization                       400         50      450      5
5) Purchase emergency generators             140         -        140     2
Subtotal            1630        440      2070    23
C. Kingston, Water Distribution System
Management Improvement                       475        175       650      7
D. Kingston, Water Transmission
Improvements                                 825        825      1650    18
E. Kingston, Sewerage System
Operations Upgrading                        1320        480      1800    20
Base Cost a/                           6750       2250     9000   100
Physical contingencies b/                    675        225       900
Price contingencies c/                      1575        525      2100
Total Project Cost                          9000       3000    12000
a/ April 1984 prices.
b/ 10% of base cost.
c/ Six year implementation beginning mid-1984.



- 33 -
AIN   6
JAMAICA
Institutional Assessment of NWC
ACTION TAKEN AND PROPOSED
AREA                                      ASSESSXMET                                    TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE
Overall Assessment                        Veak  institution, handicapped  by very         Institutional  deficiencies   reviewed   with
weak and indecisive management.  Recent         Minister of Public Utilities who is seeking
amalgamation  of Kingston  and  country-        to strengthen NYC through recruitment of new
idt operations was poorly planned and          personnel and the hiring of Technical Assist-
executed, and has aggravated situation.         ance  (TA) for two  additional years.   New
organizationaLl structure has been put in
place and policles and procedures manuals are
being prepared.
Planning                                  Financial  planning  has  improved  with        The  TA  will  improve  planning  by  further
help of TA.  Planning for takeover of           strengthening internal control and budgeting
par ih council operation is inadequate.         procedures and by assisting with the prepar-
ation of an orderly takeover plan for parish
council operations.
Financial,  Accounting,  Internal         Inadequate.  Current systems do not pro-        Work underway to  improve existlng  internal
Control and Budgeting Systems             duce timely, accurate, or meaningful re-        control and accounting systems and the pro-
porta.   Written  procedures  and  docu-        posed project will provide for the introduc-
ientation are poor or non-existent.             tion of a new financial management system.
Fixed Assets                              Although fixed assets for the Kingston          As part of the project, the NWC will review
operations were inventoried and revalued        and update its inventory and revaluation of
under the previous Bank loan, there is          fixed assets for the Kingstonarea and prepare
doubt  as  to  the  accuracy   of  the          a complete inventory and re-valuation for the
revaluation.    Fixed  assets  for other        remainder of its fixed assets including those
urban  and    rural operations have not         to be taken over from parish councils.
been inventoried or revalued.
Commercial  Operations  and  Rlec-        Metering,  billing  and  collection  is         The TA will specifically focus on improving
tronic Data Processing (RDP)              poor.  The 75% NWC-owned data processing        NIWC's  commercial   activities.        Specific
center sakee many errors in billing and         targets for collections will be established
is frequently very slow.  Collection of         under  the  loan  agreement.   Evaluation  of
water bills by parish  councils, whose          NWC's EDP activities will also be carried out
distribution  systems  are  to  be  taken       including the possibility of switching to an
over by NWC, Is very poor.                      outside service bureau.
Both areea are weak.  Written procedures        Organixationcl  changes  are  now  under  way
Procurement and Inventory Control         do not exist.   Inventories are spread          whiih should improve the accounting activi-
over many locations,  Facilities are in         ties  associated   with  inventory   control.
poor   condition    and    staffing    is       Development of a  comprehensive  procurement
excessive,                                      and inventory control system, as well as the
renovation of workshops and stores and the
standardization of equipmLent, will be inclu-
ded under the project.  TA will also ensure
the timely procurement of supply and civil
works elements included in the project.
Operation and Maintenance                 Mediocre.   Water supply operations for         The TA together with other supporting ele-
Kingston are being adversely affected by        ments  of  the  project,  will  improve  0dM
drought.  Severage plant operations are         through the purchase of vehicles and spare
deficient.    No  systematic  preventive        parts and by financing high-priority invest-
maintenance program exists.  O&X is also        ments, including  those  works  necessary  to
severely hampered by poor NYC supporting        implement distribution of additional flows of
organization.                                   water from the Yallahs scheme.
Engineering and Construction              Construction  activities  have  suffered        The engineering and construction administra-
from NYC's inability to pay contractors         tion  will be  streamlined  and  computerized
in timely fashion and the indecisiveness        under the proposed project to ensure improved
of top management.   However, improve-          coordination of engineering activities within
ments are being made with help of the    NlC.
TA.
Personnel  and   Human   Resources    NYC  Is understaffed  at management and             Under the direction of a new Jamaican person-
Development                               professional  levels  and  grossly  over-       nel director, personnel policies and proce-
staffed at all other levels.  (About 30         duree, as well as a unified pay scale, and a
employees  per  thousand  connections).         coapreheneive  training  program  are  being
Many poor labor practices are in place          developed and implemented.   Personnel files
and unions have been particularly  re-          are being coapleted.  As part of the TA to be
siatant to  proposed  changes.   Roughly        provided under the project, personnel adain-
1,000  personnel files  missing  out  of        ietration will be computerized.
2,600   permanent   or   semi-permanent
etaff. Salaries'are about 70% of civil
service,
4/06 84



JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAhE ENGINEEPING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJEC'
Monitoring Ind4catars  a!
NWC- Consolidated Operations b!
8!!82      82187      83784      84/85       85/86      868'7      87188       88/89      8. 9/0      90/91
OPERATIONS:
Population  (Service Areai                        719000    722285    733119    I1b:916   2152778   2255069   2288896   2323229  2358077    2393449
Population Served - Water 1.                       60.057.    60.00Z tO.00%    51.16%    47,49%    46.33%              46.3'3X    46.33%    46.33X    46.3-3%
Population Served - Sewerage Z                     28.53%    28.62%       23.62%     13,192      10.04%      9.73%      9.73%       9.73%      9.73%       9. 73%
Number Water Connections -Urban Ops.               90500       91000      93000      94000      95900       97811      99728      101152     102581      104518
Number Water Connections -Rural/P.C. Dos                                             63197      94973       97483      98945      100429     10!936      103465
Nucber Sewerage Connections                        35129       35564      36503      38947      39693       40289      40893       41506      42129       42761
bater Sold - Millions I'  cl                       14070       14000      13300      19948      235!5       28817      29118       29420      29721       30023
X. Unaccounted-For Water                               30%        30Q        '0%         32'        32'l       32%         31%         IIX        3Q0        29Z
Water ProductiOn - Millions ig  c!                 20100       20000      19000      30484      42050       42150      42250       42350      42450       42550
MANAGEMENT:
M Months Accounts Receivable                         4.9         6.3        6.7        4.S         4.0        3.7        3.3         3.1        3.0         3.0                  >
Employees per 1000l Connec.-Urban Cps.                 21         21         23         2!          20         19          18         17          16         *5                   1
Emplovees per 1000 Connec.-Rural/P.C. Op                                                 17         14         !4          13         12          12         11
FINANCIAL:
Ave. Op. Revenue per '000 Ig Sold                  $4.32       $4.29      $5.77      $5.45      $5.78       $5.51      S6.22       $7.00      $8.03       $8.75
Ave, go. Revenues  increase                                    -0.768     25.,15%     1,67'       5.98%     -4.5EZ     12.77%      12.537.    14.83%       8.97%
Ave. Op. Expense per '000 Ig Sold                  $3.76       $4.26      $4.89      54.37      $3.87       $4.38      $4.67       54.94      $5.22       $5.59
Ave. Op. Evpenses Increase                                     13.41%     14.74%    -11.48%    -13.57X    13.02Z        6,79Q       5.79%      5.61%       7.14%
Working Ratio-Urban Oneratians  d!                  0.78        0.85       C.a '        6        0.46        0.49       0.48        0.46       0.45        0.44
Working Ratio-Rurali'P.C. Ops  e/                   11,84       0.82       1.11       1_19        1,09       1.00       1.30        l.0d        1.00       0.98
Contribution to Investten-  f!                        -38         158'       127.       10%          0'        15!         25%        30X         307        707.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  g5                      7.44       1.72       1.73       2.82       3.26        1.95       2.01        2.07       2.19        2.20
Overtine as . of Wages                                 4)X        407.      "i5%        25%         20%        202         20%        20%        23Z         20X
- ___- __--__--__--     -__   __- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----- -l I-Z
a/ Detailed 4inancial information contained in project files.                                                                                                                m  >
b  Assumes that parish council takeover completed by end of FY 85/86,
c! Eviludes bulk water Droduction and sales to parish councils frou  FYBl582 thru FY84/E5 .
dl Ope rating expenses divided by operatins revenues
el Operating expenses divided by operating revenues including bulk water sales
fI Net cash generation 'urban operationsl minus working capital needs divided bv total investoents.
g! Net income before depr. plus interest divided by debt service charges.



JAMAICA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEIERAGE EN6INEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Projections a/
NWC Income Statesent - Major Urban Operations b/
(JQ 'OOs)
----Actual------…-                -----Projected--------------------
91/92     82/83      83/84      84/95     95/86      86/87      97/98     98/99      89/90      90/91
Water Produced (Ms Igal.)                       20100      20000      19000     20000      23650      23650     23650      23650      23650     23650             a/ Detailed financial projections contained
Water Sold (He Igal.)                            14070     14000      13300     14000      16555      16792     17028      17265      17501      1773B               in project files.
I Unaccounted-for Water                             301       301        301       30l        301        291        281       27l        26l        251           b/ Includes Kingston metropolitan area
and cities of Montego Bay and Falmouth.
Revenues c/                                   $41,572   $45,911   S47,357   $74,246  $109,872  $111,469  $123,623  $136,614  $150,947  $166,579                   c/ Projections assume tariffs will be increased as
Operating Expenses                            $32,317   $36,847   $38,296   $45,135   $50,490   $54,975   $59,027   $63,063   $67,349   $73,409                      necessary beginning in FY85/B6 to seet revenue
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                    covenant.
Income before depreciation                     $9,255    $7,064    $9,061   $29,111   $59,382   $56,493   $64,596   $73,551   $83,599   $93,170                   d/ Estisated based on an average rate nf 2.71
Depreciation  d/                               $7,436    $9,314   $10,304   $13,298   $19,025   $19,895   $22,746   $25,189   $27,747   $30,647                      applied to revalued fixed assets for Kingstom
o------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                   operations and to unrevalued fixed asset for re-
Net Operating Income                           $1,920   ($1,250)  ($1,244)  $15,913   $41,359   $36,598   $41,950   $49,361   $55,853   $62,522                      saining urban operations.
e/ Tariff increases in FY83/84 and FY84/85 are result
Average WIter Tariff (IJ/T16) e/                $2.53      $2.97      $3.21     $4.40      $5.51      $5.51     $6.04      $6.59      $7.17     )7.92                of higher tariffs approved beginning Nov. 19;3.
1 Incr, in Avg. Tariff                                     13.462    12.091    36.991    25.001         .002     9.50X      9.002      9.002     9.001
Revenue Covenant Analysis -Major Urban Operations
--- -- -- -- -- --  -- -- --- -- --  -- -- -- --  --
(J$ 'O0OsI
91/82     82/63      83/84     S4/J5      85/86      86/87     871/88      8S/9      S9/90      90J91
Income before depreciation                     S9,255    $7,064    $9,061   $29,111   $59,382   $56,493   $64,596   $73,551   $83,599   $93,170                   a/ For purposes of covenant,deobt service charges for
Less:                                                                                                                                                                consolidated operations will be used until re-
Higher of Debt Service                                                                                                                                               valuation of urban fixed asset is completed,
or Depreciation  a/                         $3,068    $5,498    $6,697   $12,591   $39,316   $44,701   $49,326   $51,283   $53,111   $53,046                   b/ For consolidated operations.
Working Capital Needs  b/                     $17,917   (43,9111  ($1,656)  $10,548   $13,040    $4,396    f5,794   $10,469   $18,712   $28,024                   cl Average of NVC's investments incurred for previous year
-  =  =    =-t=  - ====  ===    w=== t====  ==-==    ==========    =and for the current year, excluding the Yall4hs River
Contribution to Investment                   ($11,730)   $5,487    $4,020    $5,971    $7,026    $7,395   $10,476   $11,798   $11,776   $12,100                      scheme (SJ70u) to be completed in FYS5/J6.
Ave. Investments-Urban & Rural  c/            $31,042   $31,272   $33,110   $59,504   $69,949   $49,353   $42,050   $39,959   $38,926   $40,117
Contr'b as 2 of Invest.                            -392       192        121        101       lO        152        251       301        301        302
I,0



JAMAICA
WATER. SUPPLY AND SEWERASE EN6INEERINS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Projections a/
INC Incose and Operating Expenses- Raral/Parish Council Operations
J; '000s)
---- Actual -----          --------------------Projected---------------              _
91/82      82I9-3    83/84       84/85      S5/86      96/87      87/B8     .998/9      89/90      90/91
Water Produced (le Igal.)                          17600      17673      17700      18300      18400      18500      18600      18700      18800      18900             a/ Detailed financial projections contained
Water Sold (Ka Igal.)                               6160      11487      11505      11895      11960      12025      12090      12155      12220      12285                in project files.
% Unaccounted-for Water                               35Z        35%        351        35Z        35!        351        35l        35Z        35Z        35!            b/ Assumes  KIC will start billing and collecting
froa parish council customers in FY41/95 and
Revenues b/                                           $0         s0         $0   $10,521    $30,904   $47,423   $57,430   $69,228   $87,949   $96,264                      that tariffs will be raised as necessary begin-
Operating Expenses                              $16,139   $20,799   $26,721   $41,183   $59,912   $71,120   $77,040   $82,372   $87,818   $94,529                          ning in FYB5/86 to *eet revenue covenant.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                      c/ Assumes  overnent will fulfill cosittsent to
Income before depreciation                     (16,139) ($20,799) ($26,721) ($30,662) ($29,009) ($23,697) ($19,610) ($13,141)               $31    $1,735                 provide annual paymnts of J$24 u  fron FY93184
thru FY851/6 for bulk water sales to parish
Sovernment Paym't- Bulk Water Sales c/          $19,219   $25,273   $24,000   $24,000   $24,000              $O         SO         $0         $0         $0                councils. Beginning in FYS6/87, agreement would
Governsent Paye't- Rural Takeover c/                                                                   $23,697   $19,610   413,144            $0         $0                be reached on a program to phase out government
support to parish councils.
Working Ratio (eil. gov't payments) d/                                                          1.94       1.50       1.34       1.19       1.00       0.99             d/ Operating expenses divided by operating revenues
Vorking Ratio (incl  gov't payments) d/             0.94       0.92       1.11       1.19       1.09       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       0.98
Average Water Tariff (J$/TIGI                                                       $2.18      f2.72      $4.15      $5.00      $6.00      $7.57      $8.25
Z Increase in Avg. Tariff                                                                      25.001    52.63!    20.45!       19.901    26.221       9.00S
0



JAMAICA                            I
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Projections
NNC Sources and Application of Funds - Consolidated
fQS '000s)
----Actual-----       --------------------------PProected-----------------------------------------
81/22     82/83      83/84      84/85      85/86      86/87     87188      88/89      89/9o      90/91
SOURCES OF FUNDS
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATION                       $7,937       $373    $b,340   $22,449   $54,374   $32,796   $44,986   $60,407   $83,630   $94,905
BORROWINGS:
Proposed IBRD Loan                                  tO         $0         $0    $4,85B    $7,518    $7,728    $6,460    $4,290    $1,600            $826
GOJ Loans                                       S8,613   $10,000   $13,030   $47,386   $14,950    $7,n'5   $(0. Y0fq  S!0,f!00    f8,00o}    $8. 300
Other Loans                                    $13,509    $4,983    $3,466   $28. 263   $72,536    $2,000    $2,000             $0         $0         $0
TOTAL BORROWINGS                               $22,122   $14,983   S16,496   $80,507   $95,004   $17,666   $18,460   $14,290    $9,600    $8,826
6fO 8rints -Rural Cap. Eypend.                 $18,191   $17,725   $14,039   $20,507   $27,099   $23,000   $23,000   $273,000   $23,000   $23,000
G03 Payast-Rural Takeover                           SO         SO    $3,000    $2,900           $0   $23,697   $19,610   $13,144           $0         $ 0
TOTAL GDVERNNENT PAYMENTS                      $18,191   $17,725   $17,039   $23,307   $27,099   $46,697   $42,610   $36,144   $23,000   $23,000
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                         $48,250   $33,081   $397,75  $126,263  $176,477   $97,159  $106,056  $110,841  $116,230  $126,731
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES:
Proposed IBRD Project                               $0         $0         $0    $6,476   $10,021   $10,301    $8,611    $5,719    $2,133    $1,101
Other Projects- Urban                          $16,359   $14,893   $14,560   $31,579   $87,950    $5,788    $9,388   $10,000   $14,000   $17,000
Other Projects- Rural                          $12,204   $13,745   $16,250   $46,236   $27,635   $25,500   $23,000   $23,000   $23,000   $23,000
Capitalized Interest                            S2,479    $2,864    $3,908           $0         $0    $1,511         $0         so         $0         $0
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                     $31,042   $31,502   $34,718   $84,291  $125,606   $43,100   $40,999   $3B,719   $39,133   $41,101
DEBT SERVICE                                    $3,068    $5,488    $6,697   $12,591   $39,316   $44,701   $48,326   $51,283   $53,111   $53,046
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                          $17,917   (S3,911)  ($1,656)  $10,548   $13,040    $4,396    $5,794   $10,469   $18,712   $28,024
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                     $52,027   $33,079   $39,759  $107,430  $177,962   $92,198   $95,119  $100,471  $110,956  $122,171
INCREASE 1+) OR DECR. IN CASH                  ($3,777)        $2       $116   $18,832   ($1,486)   $4,961   $10,937   $10,370    $5,274    $4,560           ,
Debt Service Ratio                                3.4        1.72       1,73       2.82       2.26       1.95      2.01       2.07       2.19       2.20
0
_.



IBRDO 18111
-  -     -                              r                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1984
A~ ~~~~ A               A                                                        ~                                               ,
Ax ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                               



