OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2422 JM
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance
and Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2422 JK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR     CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) ad NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION (hereinafter
called NWC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars
($9,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that NWC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NWC, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NWC on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS NWC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NWC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, described in-said
Schedule, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist NWC in carrying out the
Project, including the preparation and evaluation of bidding
documents under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project, NWC shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) NWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by NWC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) NWC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NWC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) NWC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be


﻿-3-
derived from it. the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by NWC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NWC and the
Bank, NWC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by NWC and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) NWC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of NWC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. NWC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NWC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Susidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NWC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Pro4ject, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) NWC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by NWC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. In order to assist NWC in carrying out the
Project, NWC shall enter into an agreement with JNIC under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿Section 2.09. NWC shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1984, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and com-
ment, a financial program and procedures for the take-over by NWC
of the water supply and sewerage operations in the Category II
Area; and
(b) carry out such take-over in a manner and in accordance
with a timetable satifactory to the Bank.
Section 2.10. NWC shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1984, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment
the recommendations for a tariff structure and rates proposed to
be charged by NWC to its customers in the Category I Area and the
Category II Area; and
(b) not later than June 30, 1985, take all such measures as
shall be necessary or advisable to secure the introduction of
such recommendations taking into account the comments of the Bank
thereon.
ARTICLE III
Hanagement and Operations of NWC
Section 3.01. NWC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NWC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. NWC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. NWC shall take the organizational and opera-
tional measures referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTILE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NWC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) NWC shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. NWC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements Gf income and expenses and related statements)
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of the Fiscal Years
1984, 1985 and 1986 and not later than four months after the end
of each such year thereafter: (i) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (ii) the
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it and withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NWC shall, with regard to NWC Category I Water Supply and Sewer-
age Operations, produce for each of its Fiscal Years, after its
Fiscal Year ending on March 31, 1984, total operating revenues
sufficient to cover the sum of: Ci) total. operating expenses;
(ii) increases in working capital other than cash; (iii) the
higher of either debt service requirements or provision for
depreciation calculated on revalued fixed assets on a basis
acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) adequate contribution to NWC
capital expenditures, provided, however, that in Fiscal Year
1985, NWC may apply the resources required to make an adequate
contribution to its capital expenditures, as determined in
paragraph (d) (ii) below, to reduce its accounts payable.
(b) Before September 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, NWC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NWC in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (d) (ii) below in respect of
such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to
the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that NWC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (d) (ii) for NWC's Fiscal
Years covered by such review, NWC shall promptly take all such
measures as shall be necessary or advisable (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates)
in order to secure fulfillment of such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets, includ-
ing interests charged to construction, related to
all operations.
(ii) "Adequate contribution to capital expenditures"
shall be calculated in respect of each of the
Fiscal Years set forth below as a percentage of
the annual average of NWC capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year and the previous Fiscal Year as follows:
10% for Fiscal Year 1985
10% for Fiscal Year 1986


﻿- 7 -
15% for Fiscal Year 1987
25% for Fiscal, Year 1988
30% for Fiscal Year 1989 and thereafter.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admin-
istration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
ments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, interest and other charges on
debt.
(v) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
Fiscal Year.
(vi) The term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into cash
within twelve months, including accounts receiv-
able, marketable securities, inventories and pre-
paid expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next Fiscal Year.
(vii) The term "current liabilities" means all liabili-
ties which will become due and payable or could
under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months, including accounts
payable, customer advances, debt service require-
ments, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes and
dividends.
(viii) The term    "debt service requirements" mean     the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, all NWC debt.
(ix) The term "revalued fixed assets" means the average
gross value of NWC fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of each Fiscal Year,
excluding works in progress, as valued from time
to time in accordance with sound and consistently


﻿- 8 -
maintained methods of valuation acceptable to the
Bank.
(x) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NWC shall, with regard to NWC Category II Water Supply and
Sewerage Operations, maintain, for each of its Fiscal Years after
its Fiscal Year ending on March 31, 1984, the following ratios of
total working expenses to total operating revenues:
not higher than 1.2 in Fiscal Year 1985
not higher than 1.1 in Fiscal Year 1986
not higher than 1.0 in Fiscal Year 1987 and thereafter.
(b) Before December 31 in each of its Fiscal Years, NWC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NWC and satisfactory
to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any review shows that NWC would not meet the re-
quirements set forth in paragraph (a) for NWC's Fiscal Years
covered by such review, NWC shall promptly take all such measures
as shall be necessary or advisable (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in
order to secure fulfillment of such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The   term   "total  working  expenses" means   all
expenses   related    to   operations,   including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt.


﻿-9-
(ii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations, including
funds generated from the sale of bulk water in the
Category II Area.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NWC shall not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of NWC shows that the estimated net
revenues of NWC for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of NWC in such Fiscal Year on all debt of
NWC including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NWC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, including funds generated from
the sale of bulk water in the Category II
Area, adjusted to take account of NWC's rates
in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate and net non-operating income;
and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.


﻿- 10 -
(iv) The term    "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
relsted to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by NWC not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question
which both the Bank and NWC accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified NWC of its
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
since such notification which has or may reason-
ably be expected in the future to have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition of
future operating results of NWC.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NWC
shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1986, prepare and furnish to
the Bank the inventory of its fixed assets in operation related
to NWC Category I Water Supply and Sewerage OperatInns:


﻿- 11 -
(b) value such fixed assets annually, to such extent as
shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of such
valuation, the current value thereof, in accordance with a sound
and consistently-applied method of valuation acceptable to the
Bank; and
(c) annually register the results of such valuation on its
books.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NWC
shall:
(a) promptly upon the completion of the take-over of the
water supply and sewerage systems referred to in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank the inventory of
its fixed assets in operations related to NWC Category II Water
Supply and Sewerage Operations;
(b) value such fixed assets annually, to such extent as
shall be necessary to reflect adequately, at the time of such
valuation, the current value thereof, in accordance with a sound
and consistently-applied method of valuation acceptable to the
Bank; and
(c) annually register the results of such valuation on
its books.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NWC
shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1984, and not later than
September 30 of each Fiscal Year thereafter, furnish to the Bank
for its review and comment NWC investment plan for the next three
Fiscal Years; and (b) execute such plan taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of NWC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the


﻿- 12 -
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify NWC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the National Water Comission:
National Water Commission
P.O. Box 65
14-16 Trinidad Terrace
Kingston 5,
Jamaica, W.I.


﻿- 13 -
Cable Address:                     Telex:
NATWATER                           2125
Kingston, Jamaica, W.I.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NWC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and the Managing Director
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NATIONAL WATER COMMISSION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, NWC shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such  notice   in  order   to  provide   timely  notification   to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. NWC shall provide the necessary' information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive-bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿-15 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent each,
but more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent
each, and in the aggregate not to exceed one million five hundred
thousand dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent, may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for civil works and goods estimated to cost less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent each, but
in the aggregate not to exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000)
equivalent, may be awarded on the basis of negotiated purchases
from established and reliable suppliers provided, however, that
quotations from at least three of such suppliers are obtained.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NWC shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NWC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of said
consultants, and such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform NWC and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, mterially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), NWC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform NWC and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, NWC shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform NWC and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
NWC Organization and Operational Measures
NWC shall take the following measures aimed at strengthening
its organizational structure and operations.
A.   Not later than September 30, 1985, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comments, new accounting, financial
and management information systems, and not later than March 31,
1986 put into effect such systems taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
B.   Not later than September 30, 1985, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comment, a new inventory control
system, and not later than March 31, 1986, put into effect such
system taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
C.   Not later than December 31, 1984, put into effect new
personnel policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Not later than December 31, 1985, carry out a program for
standardization of its water supply and sewerage equipment
satisfactory to the Bank.
E.   Not later than March 31, 1985, put into effect a new billing
and customer account system satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of J    ,198
FOR SECRETARY


