Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H346 - NIR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for  
the Community Action Program Support Project 
–
Avian Flu) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 12, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H346 - NIR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 12, 2008, entered into between the REPUBLIC 
OF NIGER (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to two 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing Part F of the project described in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (Parts A to F of the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement are herein collectively referred to as the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Part F of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that Part F of the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has recruited and signed under contract an accountant for 
the NCU with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
The Recipient has updated the Project Implementation Manual in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association, including, 
inter alia
,
by:  
(i) including the list of performance indicators for Part F of the Project, 
and (ii) 
reflecting the Recipient’s commitments set out in Section I, 
paragraph C (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement related to 
environmental and social safeguards, and in Section III, paragraph D (3) 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement related to the Association’s prior review 
of draft bidding documents and contacts for the completion of works.  
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
B.P. 389 
Niamey 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile:  
 
+227 20 73 59 34 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI)   
+1 202 477 6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Niamey, Niger, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Ali M. Lamine Zeine 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ousmane Diagana 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are the objectives of the Original Project. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional Part: 
Part F:
 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza 
(1) 
Provision of support to
 the Recipient’s veterinary services with 
respect to highly pathogenic avian influenza, including: 
 
(i) Enhancing prevention and preparedness capacity; 
 
(ii) Strengthening disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity; and 
(iii) Strengthening control programs and outbreak containment plans. 
(2) 
Provision of support to the Recipient’s human health services with 
respect to highly pathogenic avian influenza, including: 
 
(i) Strengthening national public health surveillance systems; (ii) and 
Strengthening health system response capacity. 
(3) 
Improving public awareness and communications on highly 
pathogenic avian influenza, including: (i) Supporting information 
and communications activities; and (ii) Improving collaboration with 
the Recipient’s partners and stakeholders, in relation to highly 
pathogenic avian influenza. 
(4) 
Strengthening monitoring and evaluation of highly pathogenic avian 
influenza related activities, including with respect to environmental 
and social matters. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall, throughout the implementation of the Project, maintain the 
same implementation and coordination arrangements as those for the Original 
Project, except for the following: 
The NCU shall be responsible for fiduciary aspects of Part F of the Project, 
including Project accounting, financial reporting, disbursements, procurement 
and auditing arrangements.   
The Directorate of Animal Health, the General Directorate of Public Health, and 
the General Directorate of Environment, Water and Forest, under the 
coordination of the Permanent Unit (PU), shall be responsible for the technical 
aspects of the implementation of Part F of the Project. 
Once recruited by the Recipient in accordance with the terms of Schedule 2, 
Section V, paragraph D hereof, the Recipient shall maintain in the NCU the 
specialist of the fight against avian flu there mentioned, who shall oversee the 
implementation of the activities of Part F of the Project by the PU and act as an 
interface between the Project and the PU.  
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Part F of the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Part F of the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Additional Environmental Management 
Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to 
be amended, abrogated, or waived, any provision of the aforementioned.  
Page  8
7
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that:  
(i) 
the completion of any Works be subject to: (A) the prior analysis by the 
Recipient of their potential impact on the environment and the 
population, and of the measures likely to prevent or mitigate their 
negative impacts, in form, substance and scope satisfactory to the 
Association, and (B) prior consultations of stakeholders by the Recipient, 
in number, form and scope satisfactory to the Association; and  
(ii) 
the bidding documents and the contracts for the completion of any 
Works include provisions satisfactory to the Association in order to 
prevent or, as the case may be, mitigate any potential negative impacts of 
such Works on the environment and the population. 
D. 
Project Implementation Manual  
The Recipient shall ensure that Part F of the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual as updated 
pursuant to Section 5.01(b) hereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and for the Original Project on 
the basis of the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 of the Original 
Financing Agreement and for Part F of the Project on the basis of the 
indicators set forth in detail in the Project Implementation Manual.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of Part F of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that 
Section shall be furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Works and
 
Goods.
 
All works and goods required for Part F of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for Part F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works and Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, works and goods required for Part F of the Project shall be 
Page  10
9
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Works and Goods. 
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for works and goods required for Part F of the 
Project.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding
 
(b) 
National Competitive Bidding
 
(c) 
Shopping Procedures
 
(d) 
Direct contracting  
(e) 
Procurement from United Nations Agencies
 
(f) 
Community Participation 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services required for Part F of the Project shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based 
Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short 
list of consultants for consulting services estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 
equivalent, per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services required for Part F of the Project.  
The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods 
may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) 
Least Cost Selection
 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants
’
qualifications 
 
(c) 
Selection Under a fixed budget
 
(d) 
Quality Based Selection
 
(e) 
Single Source Selection
 
(f) 
Individual Consultants
 
Page  11
10
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts required for Part F of the Project shall be subject to Prior 
Review by the Association:  (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$500,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of US$200,000 or more; (c) each co
ntract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more;  
(d) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; (e) each contract for 
consultants’ services procured on the basis of Single Source Selection; and (f) the 
terms of reference for each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$5,000 or more.   
2. 
All Training activities will be carried out on the basis of annual programs 
(identifying the general framework of the Training activities for the year, 
including: (i) the type of training or workshop; (ii) the personnel to be trained; 
(iii) the selection methods of institutions or individuals conducting the Training; 
(iv) the institution or the individuals which will conduct the Training; (v) the 
duration of the proposed Training; and (vi) the outcome and impact of the 
Training) submitted annually for the prior approval of the Association. 
3. 
Each bidding documents and each contract for the completion of works, will be 
subject to Prior Review by the Association, in order to verify, 
inter alia
,
that the 
Recipient’s commitments set out in Section I, paragraph C (2) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been complied with in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association. 
4. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  12
11
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
(1) Works, goods, 
and 
consultants’ 
services, 
including 
audits and 
Training, for 
Part F of the 
Project  
2,000,000 100 
% 
(2) Operating 
costs for  
Part F of the 
Project 
470,000 100 
% 
(3) Preparatory 
Consultants’ 
Services  
20,000 100 
% 
(4) Compensation 
Fund 
300,000 100 
% 
(5) Unallocated 
for Part F of 
the Project 
110,000 100 
% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
2,900,000  
Page  13
12
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 30,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date but on or after June 1, 2007, for 
Eligible Expenditures under Category (3).
 
2.
 
No withdrawal shall be made under Category (4) until the Recipient shall have 
adopted guidelines and procedures related to the culling of poultry, and the 
payment of related compensation to eligible poultry owners, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
 
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than one month after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed in writing between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall 
have updated the 
Project’s financial management and accounting system 
(including its computerized information system and the Project manual of 
financial, accounting and administrative procedures) to suitably take account of 
Part F of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
B. 
No later than one month after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed in writing between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall: 
(i) have adopted guidelines and procedures related to the culling of poultry, and 
the payment of related compensation to eligible poultry owners, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) reflected such adopted 
guidelines and procedures in the Project Implementation Manual. 
C. 
No later that forty-five days after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed in writing between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall 
have amended the terms of reference of the independent auditor for the Project in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
D. 
No later than forty five days after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed in writing between the Recipient and the Association, the Recipient shall 
have recruited and signed under contract a specialist of the fight against avian flu 
for the NCU with terms of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Page  14
13
E. 
No later than two months after the Effective Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed in writing between the Recipient and the Association: (i) the Recipient 
shall have conducted the performance indicators baseline data survey for Part F 
of the Project, on the basis of terms of reference and in scope satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) the Recipient and the Association shall have agreed on the target 
values to be reached at the main milestones of the implementation and at 
completion of Part F of the Project; and (iii) the Recipient shall have reflected 
such base line and target values in the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Additional Environmental Management Plan” means the document entitled 
“
Plan de Gestion Environnementale, Pr
ogramme d’Actions Communautaires, 
Composante Lutte Contre la Grippe Aviaire et d’Alerte et de Réaction contre la 
Pandémie Humaine
”
prepared by Dr. Djibril Doucouré with the participation of 
Dr. Bangana Ibrahim and Idi Yacouba at the request of the Recipient and dated 
August 2007.  
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Compensation Fund” means the funds for the compensation of the losses 
incurred by farmers further to a culling of their poultry as part of the fight against 
avian flu, paid in accordance with the procedures and modalities described in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. 
“Directorate of Animal Health” means the Recipient’s 
Direction de la Santé 
Animale 
or
any successor thereto of the
 
Ministry of Animal Resources. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. 
“General Directorate of Environment Water and Forest” means the Recipient’s 
Direction Générale de l’Environnement des Eaux et Forêts 
or
any successor 
thereto in the Ministry of Environment and to Combat Desertification.  
9. 
“General Directorate of Public Health” means the Recipient’s 
Direction 
Générale de la Santé Publique 
or
any successor thereto in the Ministry of Public 
Health. 
Page  16
15
10. 
“Ministry of Agricultural Development” or “MAD” means the Recipient’s 
Ministère du Développement Agricole 
or any successor thereto. 
11. 
“Ministry of Animal Resources” means the Recipient’s 
Ministère des Ressources 
Animales
 or any successor thereto. 
12. 
“Ministry of Environment and to Combat Desertification” means the Recipient’s 
Ministère de l'Environnement et de la Lutte Contre la Désertification
 or any 
successor thereto.
 
13. 
“Ministry of Public Health” means the Recipient’s 
Ministère de la Santé 
Publique 
or any successor thereto. 
14. 
“NCU” means the National Coordination Unit defined in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
15. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses defined in Section 2(c) of 
Schedule 1 of the Original Financing Agreement. 
16. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Grant Agreement for a 
Community Action Program Support Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated March 28, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Grant No. H025 NIR). 
17. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
18. 
“Permanent Unit” or “PU” means the Recipient’s unit entitled “
Cellule 
permanente
”
established
 
by 
note de service
 no. 66 from the Ministry of Public 
Health dated February 23, 2006 within the Recipient’s National Committee to 
Fight Avian Flu established by 
arrêté 
no. 077/MRA/SG dated 
 
November 23, 2006, and referred to in Section I (A) of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement. 
19. 
“Preparatory Consultants’ Services” means eligible Consultants’ Services 
procured for the preparation of Part F of the Project, including Consultants’ 
Services for the preparation of the Additional Environmental Management Plan, 
Consultants’ Services for the revision of the Project Implementation Manual, and 
Consultants’ Services for the revision of the Project’s financial management and 
accounting system. 
Page  17
16
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 9, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
22. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s National Emergency Plan for Prevention, 
Preparedness and Control of Avian Influenza, adopted by decree 
 
no. 2007-493/PRN/MRA dated November 1, 2007, as may be amended from 
time to time by the Recipient in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
23. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual for 
the Project as it is defined in the Original Financing Agreement and has been 
updated from time to time by the Recipient with the prior approval of the 
Association. 
24. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the document entitled “
Community 
Action Program 
–
Resettlement Policy Framework
”
prepared by the Recipient 
and dated April 2002. 
25. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated 
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs of securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation 
and reproduction of training materials and other costs directly related to course 
preparation and implementation. 
26. 
“Works” means the light rehabilitation and refurbishment works of existing 
buildings eligible for a financing from the proceeds of the Financing, as part of 
the activities in Part F of the Project, excluding works for the construction of new 
buildings.
 
