Report No. PID8626
Project Name                      NIGER-Community Action Program (@)
Region                            Africa Regional Office
Sector                            Sub-national government administration (100%)
Project ID                        P065991
Supplemental Project              P073011
Borrower(s)                       REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
MinistOre des Finances et de l'Economie,
Direction du Developpement
Regional et Local
Address: B.P. 869 Niamey, Niger
Contact Person: M. Najim, Directeur, DDRL
Tel: 75 32 01
Fax: 75 25 49
Email: pac@intnet.ne
Environment Category              F
Date PID Prepared                 January 27, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date               April 4, 2002
Bank Approval Date                March 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Key structural and institutional features of the sector
The countries of the Sahel are among the poorest in the world, and by most
measures Niger is the poorest of these, with more than two-thirds of the
population living in poverty. If trends continue this number will grow --
current per capita GDP ($180) is less than half of what it was two decades
ago. But poverty is not simply the result of low income levels. It is also
caused by widespread lack of access to food, clean water, natural
resources, medical care, education, financing, and other economic and
social services. This section reviews the multi-sectoral dimensions of
poverty in Niger.
Land resources: The CAS recognizes that the biggest obstacle to promoting
rural development in Niger is the agro-ecological resource base, which is
characterized by fragile and degrading arable land, low rainfall and
periodic droughts. A combination of rapid population growth, southward
migration due to droughts, and few opportunities for employment outside of
agriculture, has put increasing pressure on limited amounts of fertile
land, and this land is disappearing fast. In 1965, one quarter of Niger
was arable; it is now one eighth (during a period when population has
almost quadrupled). Eighty-five percent of Niger's population is thus
pressed into a corridor north of the Nigerian border about 100 to 150
kilometers wide. With the encroachment of the Sahara and an apparent
downward trend in rainfall across the Sahel, there is perhaps no country
in the world more at risk from desertification. Any strategy for



sustainable development must therefore urgently come to grips with
arresting degradation of -- and ultimately improving -- Niger's land and
water resources. A major cause of the land and water degradation in the
region is an uncontrolled expansion of cultivated areas at the expense of
the availability and quality of the natural rangelands, water resources,
and biodiversity.
Biodiversity: The natural flora and fauna in this area used to be very
well equipped with mechanisms of resistance and resilience to cope with
the erratic and harsh climatic condition in the area, while the
agricultural species are much more vulnerable to the climatic forces. In
addition, the natural rangelands and water resources in the southern area
provided a crucial amount of water and fodder resources during the dry
season for migrating wildlife and livestock coming from the northern arid
regions. Herds are now becoming increasingly dependent on a decreasing
amount of crop-residues, often owned by sedentary livestock holders. The
increasing pressure on the diminishing natural rangelands and water
resources in the south, has not only led to overall decrease in
availability and productivity of these natural resources but has also led
to loss of biodiversity as a result of overexploitation of natural species
that are particularly sought for as sources of food, fodder, household
energy, medicinal products, veterinary products and construction and
shelter material.
Water resources: One of the three pillars in the CAS is the need to manage
Niger's scarcest resource -- water -- which is the primary factor in
agricultural productivity and, by extension, household and national
incomes. Niger has by far the lowest level of annual internal water
resources in the region. Ninety-nine percent of cultivated lands are
rainfed, leaving crops and farm incomes vulnerable to erratic rainfall and
droughts. Farmers lack the technologies, credit, and organization to
access ground and surface water and to successfully share its use.
Improved rural infrastructure such as small-scale irrigation schemes,
village water catchments, and soil/water management technologies could
therefore have major impacts on communities' food security. Such
activities, however, must be developed taking into account the
multifunctionality of the land and water resources of ecosystems as a
whole in the context of development concerns and environmental interests.
Agriculture and food security: The Bank Poverty Assessment and Niger's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) consider rural development the
cornerstone of a poverty reduction strategy in view of the fact that
agriculture provides the vast majority of employment, food, and income for
Nigeriens. Of the national actively employed population, 84 percent of men
and 97 percent of women are involved in growing crops or raising
livestock. Despite the large share of public investment financing devoted
to rural development (53w over the period 1991-97), agricultural GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 0.9 percent in real terms in the period
1966-96, mainly from increasing the area under cultivation. This has meant
an annual decline in per capita agricultural GDP by about two percent, and
a widespread increase in the number of households lacking food security.
One factor is that yields for the staple crops -- millet and sorghum --
are low and declining. Pastoralism is also very important in Niger and
used to represent a buffer effect during adverse effects of bad cropping
years, but the national herd has suffered tremendously from recurring
- 2 -



droughts and the decreased availability, condition and accessibility of
grazing and water areas during the dry season.. A growing source of
conflict in the country is the fact that seasonal movements of pastoral
peoples and their herds have difficulties passing through the
agricultural zone to reach the Nigerian market to the south. Apart from
low and variable farm incomes, the combination of low yields, scarce
water, declining soil fertility, and inadequate marketing infrastructure
are the main reasons for widespread food insecurity. Recent work done by
the World Bank in the Tillaberi region in March 1998 identified food
security as the top priority for most rural communities. While there is
scope for increased exports of certain high value agro-pastoral products,
most rural households will continue to depend on subsistence agriculture
for the foreseeable future.
Health: Statistics on the health of Nigeriens reveal a dismal situation.
One out of four children die before their fifth birthday. Life expectancy
is very low (44 years for males). Four out of five births take place
outside health facilities, and two thirds of women receive no pre-natal
care. The maternal mortality rate is the highest in the world. Forty-three
percent of children under five suffer from malnutrition. Only 30 percent
of Nigeriens live within five kilometers of a health facility.
Three-quarters of expenditure and four-fifths of personnel are devoted to
urban areas, much of which is associated with hospitals rather than
primary care clinics. Rural communities are largely dependent on
traditional medical products coming from the declining and degrading
natural rangelands. As many medicinal plants are no longer readily
accessible in Niger, materials are being imported in increasing quantities
from Nigeria. More than 90 percent of all health care in Niger is provided
by traditherapeuts (herbalists) and matrons (traditional birth
attendants). There are an estimated 27,000 traditherapeuts and only 300
"western" trained doctors resulting in doctors per people ratios of
respective 1 : 400 and 1: 35,000.
HIV/AIDS: The official estimate of HIV infection is under two percent.
While this is low compared to other African countries, it is a situation
that could change fast; one in three individuals in certain military and
hospital populations, according to recent surveys, carry the disease.
Myths about disease transmission prevail, and communities are reluctant to
acknowledge the threat and discuss mitigation strategies for reasons of
denial and fear. While some prevention programs currently exist, Niger may
not be able to afford a strategy where these gradually expand to national
coverage. Inclusion of traditherapeuts and matrons in activities to
prevent spreading of HIV infection needs attention. Several new projects,
including the IDA-funded AIDS project are beginning to address this
growing threat.
Water and sanitation: Household access to clean water is probably the
single most important determinant of health in Niger. Only half of
Nigeriens have such access. The time devoted by women and girls to
gathering water and transporting goods is a major constraint to their
participation in other economic activities, as well as in literacy and
education programs. Only fifteen percent of communities have access to
sanitation.
Transport infrastructure: For those farmers who manage to produce
-3 -



marketable surpluses, access to consumers is difficult. The condition of
the main road network is in serious decline. Niger's rural network is
poorly developed, with many routes impassable in the rainy season. This
has important implications for farmers' timely access to markets, as well
as the ability of extension agents and input suppliers to reach clients.
When routes are in poor condition, farmers are obliged to rely on
non-motorized forms of transport, a duty which often falls upon women and
children. To date, a highly centralized Ministry of Equipment has been
largely unsuccessful in mobilizing communities to provide maintenance of
roads although some pilot activities are underway to provide solutions
that may be replicated under the CAP.
Micro-finance: Communities or individuals have very limited access to
credit. What little financing is available usually relates to projects
with donor-specific procedures. Following the collapse of the Rural
Development Bank and the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne, the formal financial
sector is almost completely absent in the rural sector. Banks are
generally not interested in accepting the risk, insufficient collateral,
and high transaction costs involved with lending to smallholders or
communities, even if the latter are able to organize. Despite the recent
expansion of decentralized financial systems, recent statistics estimate
that 3-4 percent of the active population have access to these
institutions. A new IFAD project (PDSFR) is expected to give a much needed
boost to this sector.
Education: Niger's primary school enrollment rate is very low, and the
literacy rate is the lowest in the world. This problem is particularly
acute for girls, among whom less than one fifth attend school. Factors
that discourage enrollment are long distances to school, low quality of
education, and a low probability of being hired in the modern sector.
Being poorly educated, many communities are therefore unable to liaise or
negotiate effectively with local administrations or central government,
NGOs and donors. Another consequence is that farmer organizations,
cooperatives, and professional associations tend to be very weak.
Government Strategy
Economic growth and poverty reduction: The strategy for economic growth
and poverty reduction is in a state of transition. The 1997 Programme de
Relance Economique (PRE) once provided a medium-term program to improve
the efficiency and equity of public resources in line with its
macroeconomic framework and development priorities. However, this failed
to be implemented for institutional reasons (it was not formulated by the
line ministries but by the Prime Minister's office) and because it
presented a long and unrealistic list of recommendations. As a product of
the previous regime, the PRE has been abandoned.
The Programme Cadre National de Lutte Contre de la Pauvrete (PNLCP) was
adopted in 1998 at a round table in Geneva to reduce and ultimately
eliminate poverty through investments and policy reform aimed at improving
economic conditions and developing social sectors. The PNCLP is based on
principles shared by the CAP: (i) participatory approaches to identifying,
programming, implementing, and evaluating development interventions; (ii)
decentralization and local-level capacity-building; (iii) capitalizing on
synergies between development partners; (iv) geographically-focussed
- 4 -



actions; (v) adoption of labour-intensive techniques; (vi) systematic
integration of gender concerns; (vii) addressing environmental concerns in
all activities; (viii) transparency of management and a communication
strategy; and (ix) the sustainability of actions. Results of PNLCP thus
far, however, have been modest, in part due to the political upheaval in
1999 and consequent exodus of donors. Government readily acknowledges that
the program has not successfully grappled with the macro-economic
dimension, nor has it produced a system of monitoring and evaluation.
However, the program has served to coordinate actions of certain donors
(notably the UNDP and ADB), has facilitated the emergence of many
community organizations, and has explicitly underscored the government's
intention to strengthen civil society and operate in a participatory
manner.
Coincident with the establishment of the new government in December 1999,
was the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) exercise, which is a
condition of debt relief under the HIPC. Government acknowledges that the
PRSP presents a way to take forward the PNLCP from and vision and guiding
principles to strategies and actions. The PRSP was completed in January
2002 (Report No. 23483-NIR), and puts health, education, and rural
development as the central focus of poverty reduction. The challenge will
be to operationalize these efforts, coordinate line ministries, harmonize
diverse donor activities, and monitor impact. Improved local governance
and decentralization are seen as key elements in the strategy.
Public sector management: A major obstacle to implementing an effective
community development strategy in Niger is that public resources are
inappropriately distributed and ineffectively managed. There is little
coherence in the design and implementation of projects, and most
operations, even in the same subsector, do not coordinate approaches or
are prepared and implemented without taking account of any priority public
investment program. Decision-making powers, staff, and financial resources
continue to be concentrated at the center. Even so, incentives for public
servants are poor as wages are frequently delayed or skipped entirely.
About three quarters of recurrent expenditure in line ministries are
devoted to personnel salaries and allowances, with much of the remainder
to utility costs, leaving very little for recurrent outlays. There is
limited autonomy of key ministries to decide allocation of funds between
different programs and projects given the large and inflexible wage bill
and limited control over personnel decisions. In addition, a large share
of the investment budget finances the recurrent costs of government
agencies rather than services for communities. Execution rates for the
investment expenditures remain very low (about 50 percent), due to limited
institutional capacity, poor utilization of existing manpower resources,
and lack of counterpart funds. Disbursement and procurement procedures are
cumbersome and slow. There is no coherent system for monitoring progress
and evaluating impact of programs and projects.
Decentralization and community-based development: Since independence,
Niger has initiated an variety of policies aimed at development and
modernization of local administration and local service provision. Many
line ministries have deconcentrated their staff to regions and
arrondissements. However, the lack of operational funding has left most of
them unable to reach communities.
-5-



However, many of the necessary policies are in place. For example, in 1993
Government approved the implementation of a Rural Code, which established
rules for the access, use and management of natural resources, including
the requirement that consultation with communities whenever public actions
are taken for collective investments. While management and use of natural
resources in Niger has always been collective, local communities have
lacked the legal right to do so. To address this issue, a decentralization
law was adopted by the national assembly in 1993 and declared effective
the following year. Under this law, districts and municipalities would
become legal entities, bearing responsibility over local finances,
management of local public services and community assets, with
representation by electoral bodies, district and municipal councils
(previous laws did not consider autonomy at village or terroirs levels).
During the period 1996-98, Parliament adopted a set of laws establishing
new administrative divisions of the country and the creation of local
governments at the region, department, arrondissement, and commune levels.
Once acceptable local elections take place, there will be 774 communes, of
which 156 are urban and 618 rural. According the Haute Commissariat a la
Reforme Administrative et a la Decentralisation, the principle challenge
will be the setting in place of a coherent framework for financing the
different levels of local government, and the reinforcement of capacity at
all levels. The application of this reform will be expensive -- estimated
at 140 billion FCFA (15t of GDP).
Despite these advances in the policy framework, however, real advances in
decentralization have yet to be felt at the community level. Public
resources remain centralized, and have failed to secure the active
participation of local communities to articulate demand and manage their
own development. Local elections have not taken place, but are foreseen in
the near future, likely early in the first phase of the CAP. Also,
substantial work is required on fiscal and administrative arrangements to
ensure that local government (a) has the flexibility to respond to the
needs of their constituents; (b) has the financial and human resource
capacity to respond effectively; (c) is accountable to the local
populations as well as to the central government (for those services
delegated to local governments); and (d) can obtain information and
monitor services for which they are ultimately responsible.
Natural resource management policy: The National Environment Council for
Sustainable Development (CNEDD) adopted in April 1998 the National
Environmental Plan for Sustainable Development (PNEDD) representing the
objectives, policies, strategies and priority programs for environmentally
sustainable development. The document reflects a consensus between
representatives of the Government, the private sector and the civil
society and lists the following six priority programs: (i) National Action
Plan of Desertification Control and Natural Resources Management
(PAN/LCD-GRN); (ii) Sustainable Water Development Program; (iii)
Sustainable Energy Development Program; (iv) Urban Environment
Development Program; (v) Biodiversity Management Program; and (vi) the
Variability and Change of Climate Program. Within the Ministry of Rural
Development, the Natural Resources Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles, C/GRN) is responsible for the development of
policies and strategies relating to natural resource management. The
C/GRN, in collaboration with other Ministries, has developed the National
Action Plan of Desertification Control and Natural resources Management
- 6-



(PAN/LCD-GRN) which support community-based natural resource management
and manages the Natural Resources Management Project of the World Bank
(PGRN). The PGRN is due to close in 2002, but which is expected to
transfer much of its experience and capacity to the CAP. Presently, a
National Soil Fertility Action Plan is being developed which would be
implemented under the PAN/LCD-GRN. Under the guidance of the CNEDD, the
Ministry of Agricultural Development and the Ministry of Environment are
currently developing a long term socio-economic and natural resources
monitoring and evaluation system to evaluate the impact of PAN/LCD-GRN
supported activities.
As such, the human capacity, knowledge and experience regarding
community-based natural resources management (CBNRM) is fairly well
developed in Niger with a variety of projects are implementing CBNRM.
However, the main remaining constraints to a sustainable management of the
natural resources appear to be the lack of a holistic approach towards the
management of the various sub-components of ecosystems seen from a local,
national and global perspective, the lack of appropriate land and water
tenure policies and a lack of financial mechanisms and resources allowing
the communities to take charge of their own environmental needs.
2. Objectives
The CAP will assist the Government of Niger to establish and
operationalize decentralized, participatory, and transparent financing
mechanisms that empower poor communities to take charge of their own
development, with the support of their local governments.
This objective will be achieved by building communities' ability to engage
in participatory appraisal, priority setting, local development planning,
micro-project implementation, monitoring, and evaluation. In conjunction
with community development, capacity-building efforts will target local
governments with the aim of transferring resources and local development
facilitation responsibilities to them in the future. The financing
mechanisms for phase 1 will be based on a matching grant (the Local
Investment Fund) with which communities may carry out micro-projects of
their choice. In order to respect communities' priorities and better
address poverty, the scope of such investment will be as wide as possible.
Communities will be expected to contribute in cash or in kind to
demonstrate commitment.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Dialogue on poverty reduction policy: With our support to the PRSP, IDA is
well positioned to push forward discussion on how to coordinate and
strengthen Government's commitment to poverty reduction. However, this
will have to involve all other major development partners.
Scaling up CDD efforts: IDA has the ability to mobilize sufficient funding
to undertake such an ambitious national program. With the wide range and
large scale of many of its operations, IDA is well positioned to link the
CAP goals with the national reforms and financing mechanisms required to
support them.
International experience: IDA brings international experience in the areas
of social funds, decentralization, and demand-driven rural investment
funds. Aside from experience in Niger listed above, we now have many
similar operations ongoing in the region, and the CAP may draw from the
positive and negative lessons of this experience. Examples include the
-7 -



Village Communities Support Program in Guinea, the Borghou pilot in Benin,
the Community-based Rural Development in Burkina Faso, and a variety of
social funds in the region, notably the Zambia case. In addition, the
growing focus and debate in the Bank on community-driven development (CDD)
will help to consolidate lessons and experience which the CAP can use to
its advantage.
Sectoral experience: IDA has projects in every sector, which can
contribute technical solutions and facilitate institutional linkages with
line ministries. The CAP will benefit from two "parent" projects. The
PPODR demonstrated many positive lessons with respect to decentralized
financial management and income-generating micro-projects. The CAP can
also build on success of the Natural Resource Management Project (PGRN) in
community-based provision of public goods, which is particularly relevant
for the activities relating to the support to community-based integrated
ecosystem management (CBIEM).
Complementing on-going GEF support: Other projects involving global
environmental management in Niger tend to focus on specific focal areas of
interest such as biodiversity, condition of international waters, or
global warming mitigation or are restricted to certain geographic areas
such as nature reserves or specific ecosystems. The nation-wide CAP,
classified as a so-called multiple focal area project, will therefore be
complementary to other projects. Furthermore, through its close
coordination with the Africa Land and Water Initiative, the best practices
and lessons learned from this project will have an impact on the natural
resources management in Africa as a whole.
Limitations: While recognizing our comparative advantage, it is equally
important to acknowledge that we are relatively weak in several areas,
particularly concerning on-the-ground experience in community-driven
approaches in Niger and working with NGOs. In this respect, it will be
vitally important for the CAP to collaborate with development partners who
possess diverse strengths and considerable operational experience. These
include the Agence Fran6aise de Developpement (AFD), the United National
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), and German Cooperation (KfW and GTZ). In addition to
donors are a large and growing number of NGOs who have considerable
experience, such as CARE Niger, the Canadian Centre for International
Studies (CECI) and many national NGOs.
4. Description
The proposed project will have five components, consisting of (a)
community support, (b) decentralization support (c) a Local Investment
Fund, and (d) poverty monitoring, and (e) program management.
A. The Community Support component is aimed at introducing decentralized
and participatory planning procedures and building capacity of
community-based organizations (CBOs), and other local institutions to
design, implement, and manage micro-projects.This component will be
implemented in a selected sample of communes (about 15-20 percent of the
total), and will cover all villages or village groupings within these
communes.
The hallmark of this component is the systematic use of PA techniques in
the micro-project cycle. This will require building consensus on such
techniques among NGOs or other facilitators, who will assist communities
to (i) conduct needs assessments, (ii) draft local development plans
- 8-



(LDPs), and (iii) facilitate implementation of micro-projects. The needs
assessments and LDPs will be submitted for approval and assessed using
transparent criteria known in advance to all stakeholders. The development
plans will be implemented by the communities themselves, under the
leadership of committees created for this purpose. Communities will be
able to exercise choice over source of technical assistance, technology
type, and investment design. Local government, NGOs, and sector
specialists may give input, guidance, and training, but may not interfere
in implementation. This is essential to empower communities, ensure
correspondence of investment to needs, and ensure accountability to the
community.
The GEF resources will support CBOs in understanding the linkages between
poverty reduction and integrated management of the natural resources as
part of ecosystems and will also be used in the identification and
inclusion of the various types of primary stakeholders within communities
having interest in the maintenance of the various type of production
functions of ecosystems (such as sedentary and non-sedentary livestock
holders; croppers; collectors of household products such as food, water
and energy; fishermen; hunters and traditional healers and nature
conservationists. GEF funds will also support communities to design and
implement relevant micro-projects related to CBIEM.
B. The Local Governance Support component is aimed at strengthening
administrative and fiscal dimensions of local governance. This effort will
be modest and experimental in the first phase, but will scale up in
subsequent phases based on successful models developed in the first phase.
This will involve efforts at local and central levels within two
sub-components:.
Local governance: First, the CAP will work actively with a select set of
new local governments to build capacity in administrative and fiscal
management, and ensure that they work effectively with their constituents.
This set of new governments will be selected from the communes selected
for the first phase of the CAP. The goal of this component is to increase
capacity such that these governments "graduate" and are able to assume the
fiscal and administrative responsibilities performed by the project.
Policy and institutional reforms: Second, the CAP will assist the central
government, notably the High Commission for Decentralization, to
accelerate the process of decentralization. This component can provide
studies and support a communication program that helps enforce and
publicize the legal and regulatory framework for decentralization, while
strengthening the capacity of central Ministries responsible for
decentralization. Working with line ministries, the project will assist in
planning for deconcentrating staff and resources to the lowest possible
level of local government.
C. The Local Investment Fund (LIF) is the financial facility that will
channel small fungible capital grants to communities or local government
for the financing of micro-projects. Initially, the LIF will flow from
regional project coordination units (CCRs) to communities. Eventually, the
goal is to have the LIF flow through local governments to support fiscal
decentralization once accountable and democratically elected governments
are in place and have reached a level of capacity to serve their
communities in this way (i.e. through component B). Such micro-projects
will be proposed by communities as part of an approved local development
- 9-



plan, and providing that a participatory needs assessment has been
successfully undertaken.
A central principle of the CAP is that communities may decide to use the
LIF for any micro-project they deem important. These may include, but are
not limited to, natural resource management (soil fertility control,
erosion control, tree plantings and nurseries, fuelwood); production of
crops, fish, and livestock (irrigation, gardening, seedling production,
livestock fattening, cereal banks, fish farming, food processing,
stockraising, beekeeping), water and sanitation (wells, boreholes);
education (village schools, literacy programs); health (clinics, health
posts, disease prevention); rural transport (rehabilitating local roads,
bridges); etc.
The LIF is a matching grant. As such, communities are expected to
contribute a certain percentage of the value of the investment, either in
cash, or more likely in the form of labour or materials. The amount of the
initial grant would be small, from $2 - $4 per inhabitant. As a limited
fund, the LIF would encourage priority-setting and avoid creation of "wish
lists". Communities that effectively access and execute the LIF would be
eligible in subsequent financing rounds for additional funding. In
contrast, those communities who do not respect the terms of the grant
would be excluded for a certain period.
D. The Poverty Monitoring component is the CAP's M&E system. It will
serve three purposes: (i) to measure levels and trends of poverty;
community access to social and economic services; (ii) monitor the CAP in
order to provide timely feedback to both communities and program
management in terms of relevance, efficiency, effectiveness and impact of
program interventions, in order that rapid corrective action can be taken
if necessary; and (iii) to enhance local communities' capacity to analyze
and manage their own development process. The poverty monitoring component
will have two related sub-components:
National poverty monitoring system: The CAP, as an instrument of the PRSP,
will attempt to focus investments on Niger's poorest people to achieve
sustainable poverty reduction from the poorest upwards. As such, the
national poverty monitoring system will seek to harmonize the access to
and use and maintenance of several of Niger's socio-economic and natural
resources data sets. Instead of generating new data, the CAP will
integrate several disparate data sets on socio-economic and environmental
issues into a spatial geographic information system (GIS). Because the
data sets are currently sector-specific and unconnected, they fail to
provide a multidimensional view of poverty. In support of GEF objectives,
this monitoring system will incorporate data relating to the use and
condition of the natural resources by incorporation and extension of the
monitoring and evaluation system being development within the context of
the National Action Plan of Desertification Control and Natural Resources
Management (PAN/LCD-GRN). A series of poverty maps from the data
available have been generated as part of project preparation, creating a
baseline assessment of the Nigerien population's vulnerability down to the
village level. This baseline provides a way to measure future progress,
under either the CAP or other poverty reduction and NRM efforts. The
coordinators of the data system would have two initial objectives : (i) to
work with Niger's research institutes, government statistical bodies and
- 10 -



NGOs to create the initial spatial assessment of poverty and the condition
of the natural resources, and (ii) to develop a strategy for sharing,
using and maintaining data within Niger, making data spatial and congruent
with harmonized data sets as necessary.    The sub-component would finance
a small team (two or three people), some hardware and software, training,
and consultants.
Community-based M&E: The CAP will develop and implement a system for
facilitating a community-wide reflection on their development and the
evolution of that development over time. With support from a community
development agent, a community-chosen Monitoring and Evaluation Committee
will define the indicators that will be used to : (i) monitor CAP
sub-projects; (ii) evaluate the effect of the CAP and, potentially, of
other local service providers on the community, from a locally elaborated
baseline; and (iii) systematically feed these observations into regular
re-adjustments of the local development plan. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Committee will be responsible for data collection and for the
primary data analysis. Community development agents will transmit a
subset of this data to the decentralized project implementation units.
This system may also develop a mechanism for exchanging information on and
from the poor between the CAP and, locally, decentralized government
agencies or, nationally, the PRSP. The sub-component will finance data
collection, analysis, training, workshops and dissemination of results.
E. The Support to Project Management component will cover project
coordination, field services, financial management, and establishment of a
communication program. Project coordination will include support for
coordination meetings, liaison with the World Bank and other donors, and
exchange of experience at national fora. Field services include the
training, personnel, equipment, and operating costs associated with the
regional project implementation. Financial management includes operational
planning and monitoring of the physical and financial execution of the
CAP, procurement, accounting, internal audit, and personnel management.
The communication program includes development and dissemination of
information concerning program activities, approaches, results, and
possibly education in schools, on radio, and on television. Most
activities of this component will fall under the project management unit
and project steering committee (see Section C4). The various aspects of
project management will also coordinate cross-cutting CBIEM-related
activities, while in addition a specific communication program will be
developed to reach out to other relevant national and region/global
environmental programs.
A. Community Support
B. Local Governance Support
C. Local Investment Fund
D. Poverty Monitoring
E. Project Management
PPF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $2.83
IBRD
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $2.00



IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $35.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $4.00
Total Project Cost $43.83
6. Implementation
The first phase of the CAP will be carried out over four years.
Procurement, disbursement, and decentralized financial management
practices will benefit from a wealth of new and simplified methods
developed and standardized recently in the Bank. These are described in
Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based
Investments, February 1998; Community-based Contracting: A Review of
Stakeholder Experience, June 2000; Guidelines for Africa Region on
Financial Management for Community Action Programs, October 2000; and
Guidelines for Task Teams on Procurement Procedures Used in Social Funds,
February 2001, and Fiduciary management for Community-driven Development
projects, March 2002 (draft).
4.1 Capacity Assessment of Central Project Coordination Unit and Financial
Monitoring Reports
A central Project Coordination Unit (Cellule de Coordination National, CCN
) staffed with competent and experienced staff, including a coordinator
and an administrative and financial management specialist, will be
recruited through a competitive and transparent process in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. Adequate provisions will
be made to train the accounting and financial staff. In addition, the CCN
will recruit a procurement specialist, an internal auditor financial
comptroller, and two experienced accountants.
The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to
IDA, which will provide the borrower and IDA with accurate and timely
information regarding resources and expenditures. The financial
management systems will include budgetary accounting, financial reporting,
for internal control device and auditing elements. A financial management
consultant or firm would be selected to assist in the design and
establishment of the computerized financial management systems of the
CCN. The CCN will be responsible for project administrative and technical
coordination as well as financial management. The final configuration of
the CCN, the profile of the staff as well as their job descriptions {will
be} described in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The relevant
internal control system, meanwhile, {will be} determined and fully
described in the Manual of budgetary accounting and financial procedures.
4.2 Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The CCN will maintain the books and accounts of the project activities and
will ensure that the production of the annual financial statements are
done on a timely manner.
A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to design a
computerized accounting and financial management system, based on
internationally generally acceptable accounting principles agreed with the
Bank. The consultant will also prepare the accompanying guidelines for
the software operations and will check whether computerized guidelines
- 12 -



match with the Manual of budgetary financial and accounting procedures.
The manual will be agreed to by IDA. The consultant will be responsible
for the initial training of the accounting and financial management staff
on the efficient operation of the computerized accounting system. They
will also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in
financial management with an implementation timetable and will provide the
project with assistance. The selection of the accounting software will
ensure that the system is supported by a reliable organization.
The CCN will maintain its account in accordance with International
Accounting Standards, and the quality of financial management has been
verified by auditors during the first phase of the project. CCN and the
Ministry of Finance and Economy will keep all documentation related to
project expenditures, and will all at times keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect its operations and
financial position. These records would be made available to Bank missions
and independent auditors. The CCN's accounts would be audited on an annual
basis.
Financial Monitoring Reports
The CCN's responsibilities for preparation of Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) are explained in the PIM. The administrative and financial
management specialist will be responsible for preparing the FMRs, while
the Coordinator of the CCN will be responsible for ensuring that they are
provided to stakeholders and the Association on a quarterly timely basis.
FMRs will provide information that establish (i) whether funds disbursed
to projects are being used for the purpose intended; (ii) whether project
implementation is on track; and (iii) that budgeted costs will not be
exceeded. Financial information will be linked explicitly with the
physical progress and procurement of the project. The annual financial
statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and will include (i) discussion of project
progress, (ii) sources and uses of funds statement, (iii) uses of funds by
expenditure type (iv) output monitoring report (v) procurement report. The
audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year. The computerized accounting
system will be customized to generate the FMRs required in the forms as
indicated in "Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed
Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers".a statement showing cash receipts by
sources and expenditures by main classification, beginning and ending cash
balances of the project, and supporting schedules comparing actual and
planned expenditures. Adequate financial management arrangements,
including the ability to produce a timely FMR, will be in place by credit
effectiveness.
Auditing
Project records and accounts will be audited in accordance with
international audit standards by an experienced and internationally
recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within six months after the end of Government fiscal
year. In addition to their standard short-form report with opinion on the
annual financial statements, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry
out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the internal control
- 13 -



procedures governing their preparation for the relevant period under
audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) review the
management and utilization of the special account and the project account
and express a separate opinion thereon on each of them as well; (iii) the
auditor will complete their in-depth review, started at interim, of the
internal control system of the project with a view to identify the major
weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for
improvement. Regarding the matching grants (LIF), the audit firm will
review the performance of random beneficiaries, and provide a specific
opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency of the lending and
distribution procedures. The results of this review would be documented in
a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit report.
The auditors will review and audit the use of the PPF and PHRD Grant funds
covering the period prior to effectiveness. They will also perform interim
audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the internal control
system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect
within one month from the end of their work. The findings and
recommendations of the interim reports will be addressed by management
without delay before the final audit (mostly 6 months after closing of the
fiscal year). The contracting of auditors on a renewable multi-year
contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the financial auditors
that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
First, institutional sustainability of the CAP will depend primarily on
community ownership. While CAP development plans will be implemented with
technical and financial assistance from some external sources, decisions
on the content of plans would rest ultimately with communities who would
be responsible for managing implementation. Once communities acquire the
knowledge, awareness, and necessary skills to design and implement local
development plans and micro-projects, sustainability of institutional
objectives will be assured, provided that financing is available.
Second, the fiscal sustainability will depend on whether revenues continue
to flow through channels established via the CAP. Financing for community
development in Niger, for the foreseeable future, will continue to rely on
external sources, since the level of poverty is such that substantial
local revenue generation is impossible in the majority of communities. The
CAP's financing flows are intended to "prime the pump" of fiscal
decentralization. The potential for cost recovery will be exploited when
possible to minimize dependence on intergovernmental transfers.
Third is the issue of environmental sustainability. GEF financing will be
limited to the first and second phases of the CAP. During this time, the
program will endeavor to establish the principle of CBIEM conceptually in
Niger, establish a conducive policy and institutional framework, and
undertake successful interventions in Nigerien communities. Based on this
success, and the expected achievements of the overall project to provide
for the short-term needs and the development of income-generating
activities, increased ability of the communities to contribute to an
investment in the natural resources base is expected while other
financiers would be expected to supplement any remaining requirements. As
indicated by the lessons learned from the PGRN, the fulfillment of the
- 14 -



basic needs under the CAP will allow the communities to continue their
activities relating to natural resources management also during severe
periods of drought.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In this section, lessons from other projects, particularly in the rural
development, are reviewed. These lessons are taken in large part from ICRs
and supervision reports. Performance of most projects in Niger, ranged
from highly unsatisfactory to limited success, and have produced valuable
lessons to consider in planning future work in Niger. In addition, lessons
from the pilot operations, which constituted the major activity during the
CAP's preparation period, are reviewed in this section.
Lessons from projects:
Sustainability of operations is hindered by the project mentality of many
government officials and communities, whereby each project is expected to
be followed by another.
Government lacks a clear framework, action plan, or time path for
decentralizing services or getting beneficiaries to take charge of
activities. While the government's long-term objective is desengagement,
this is not reflected either in the structure or the function of the
administrative services with respect to communities.
Institution building takes time. Capacity built as the result of a project
may not become evident for ten to fifteen years. Operations designed to
develop local capacity and a participatory culture require a longer
learning curve and therefore long-term commitment before development
impacts are evident.
Monitoring and evaluation systems have been poor or nonexistent. It is
essential to define and phase project objectives by stating clearly at
appraisal the short, medium, and long-term objectives of the project and
related performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and
be allocated timely and adequate resources for operation and training.
Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central
to successful implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and
for promoting a culture of financial discipline in managing community
funds. PGRN has demonstrated that communities are successful in
procurement and decentralized financial management.
Training in farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk
management promotes financial sustainability. Simplified operating
procedures, legal protection, and clarity with respect to benefits of the
established financial mechanisms are central to establishing ownership and
credibility of such mechanisms. Provided with basic training, communities
are quite capable of carrying out their own procurement, and in ensuring
that services providers are accountable to them.
Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering
private entrepreneurial development and participatory grassroots
income-generating initiatives, it is generally less effective than a
private self-interested association of the beneficiaries.
Even when community-development funds are earmarked for specific purposes
(i.e. PPODR and PGRNs' focus on economic activities and natural resources
management, respectively), communities nevertheless request those
investments that meet their priority basic needs. Once these basic needs
are fulfilled, longer term interest such as the maintenance of the natural
resources come into view. The management of cultivated areas tend to
- 15 -



receive earlier and more attention than the natural rangelands and water
resources.
Based on these lessons, the approach of the CAP will (a) be long-term, (b)
cover multiple sectors, (c) ensure active participation of all segments of
communities, (d) rely on decentralized financial management, (e) place
strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, (f) provide financial
mechanisms to satisfy the basic needs while actively promoting activities
that will ensure long-term viability of ecosystems and natural resources;
and (g) propose concrete steps for transferring the role of central
government to local government or the private sector in local service
provision.
Lessons from pilot activities:
Pilots were an important part of the preparation process because they
helped provide lessons on which to design the implementation phase. In
addition, they served to forge institutional linkages with NGOs and donors
who are expected to play a key role in facilitating and collaborating with
the CAP by providing animation and capacity-building to communities.
Eight "operators" managed the pilot activities over a fourteen-month
period. There are three international NGOs (CARE Niger, CECI, AFVP); two
local NGOs (Karkara, ABC-Ecologie); and three donors: the African
Development Foundation, the United National Capital Development Fund, and
the European Union. Six pilots are rural, one is urban (Niamey) and one
peri-urban (Zinder). The donors' activities were ongoing or incremental
activities financed independently of CAP funds, in close collaboration
with the CAP. The NGOs were financed with CAP resources, and chosen by
single source selection on the grounds that they were already carrying out
multi-sectoral and demand-driven community-based work consistent with the
principles of CAP. Rather than providing each operator with a standard
operational manual, they were encouraged to continue with their own
business practices. An "operator liaison" was hired to facilitate the
transfer of information and experience across the pilots and to the
project preparation unit and World Bank. He made 9 supervion missions and
convened four workshops to share experiences and plan next steps. His
mission reports and conclusions from the workshops are available upon
request.
Region  Locality         Operator        Priority needs
Agadez           European Union  {local development plan pending}
Dosso   Loga     CECI    cereal banks, health post
Diffa   Nguigmi UNCDF    social infrastructure, income-generating activities
Maradi  Moule, Serkin Yamma, Souloulou   CARE    mid-wife training, small ruminants,
literacy, grain mill, HIV/AIDS
Niamey Commune III African Development Foundation school fence, health post, cereal bank
Tahoua  Bouza   AFVP     wells, mid-wife training, soil erosion, grain mill,
literacy, HIV/AIDS
Tillabery        Simiri, Banne   ABC-ecologie    cereal banks, income-generating activities
Zinder  Mirriah Karkara wells, health post, classroom, cereal bank,
income-generating activities
Although based on a small sample, the choice of micro-projects by the
communities working in the pilot phase reveals several interesting things.
First, that food security and income-generation are priorities. Second,
that women's priorities (such as mid-wife training) will be expressed if
- 16 -



participatory processes are respected. Third, that rather than spending a
large amount on one or two micro-projects, a range of smaller projects is
preferred.
The following is a summary of the lessons learned and conclusions
generated from the pilot phase, as articulated by the operators themselves
during workshops:
Defining area of intervention: The project should work within the
administrative boundaries and the future decentralized entities. At a
lower level, the "grappes de villages" (village groupings) are an
effective target unit for the LIF, although definition of this group
requires careful research on social cohesion. The participatory appraisal
process may begin, however, even lower -- at the village or (urban)
neighbourhood level.
Community Development Agents: There must be a clear definition of labour.
In addition to participatory processes, teams must be trained in natural
resource management, gender issues, and HIV/AIDS. Women must be
adequately and actively represented in such teams. In general, one
Community Development Agent (ADC) is adequate for three to five villages.
Partnerships: A local institutional framework must be in place with
systematic and transparent relationships between operators, the project,
and local administration (or government), particularly with respect to
public services. Contracts with service providers must be harmonized and
the rules of engagement clarified to all.
Project outreach: Each operator should formulate a communication plan,
using a variety of media and in local languages. IEC would continue
throughout the micro-project cycle, using local human resources to assist
in village animation and other tasks.
Participatory appraisal: The project should define a common approach to be
adopted by all operators, which would require adopting a minimum set of
rules while allowing flexibility to local conditions. The process must
take into account in particular the needs of marginalized groups, and must
reinforce local capacity to take charge of this process in future.
Local development planning: Prioritization of micro-projects requires a
clear and transparent criteria for doing so. The approach would consider
all the problems faced by communities, with the objective of achieving
planning over a temporal and spatial dimensions and estimated budgets.
Approval of micro-projects and the local development plan must made within
a structure of community-based decision-making. Wherever possible, mayors
or sous-prefets must be part of the process.
Role of women: Women should represent at least one third of the members of
the community structures linked to the project, notably in posts that
involve decision-making, not merely consultation. Similarly, a fixed quota
of women participating in training is desirable.
Capacity-building: The project must strive to obtain legal recognition of
community structures, on the base of legal texts on local governance.
Project rules, procedures, and reports should be made available at all
levels. The project should finance exchanges among communities. M&E is a
function that can done locally, and local groups may be trained to do so.
GEF activities: Methods used by the operators to facilitate the
development of community development action plans in the initial six pilot
sites do not sufficiently raise the attention towards linkages between
poverty and the conditions of ecosystems as a whole. Special training will
therefore be necessary.
- 17 -



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel M. Sellen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2174
Fax: (202) 473-5147
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 18 -



