Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23819-NIR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.40 MILLION
(US$ 35.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
ONA
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONNMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.90 MILLION
(US$ 4.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR THE
COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAM
IN SUPPORT QF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAM
FEBRUARY 24, 2003
Rural Development II
Country Department 13
Africa Regional Office






GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GNP                 Gross National Product
GON                 Government of Niger
HCRAD               Haut Commissariat a la Reforme Administrative et d la Decentralisation
HIPC                Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
IEM                 Integrated Ecosystem Management
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IGAD                Intergovernmental Authority for Development
I-PRSP              Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IRDP                Integrated Rural Development project
IRR                 Internal rate of return
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS                 Least-Cost Selection
LDP                 Local Development Plan
LIF                 Local Investment Fund
LLI                 Local level institution
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI                 Micro-finance institution
MCPEC               Mouvement des caisses populaires d'epargne et de credit.
MDA                 Ministere du Developpement Agricole (Ministry of Agricultural Development)
MES                 Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
MIS                 Management Information System
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                 Net Present Value
NRM                 Natural Resource Management
OP                  Operational Program
PA                  Participatory Appraisal
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PDSFR               Programme de developpement des systWmesfinanciers ruraux
(Program for the development of rural financial systems)
PGRN                Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
(Natural Resource Management Project)
PHRD                Special Fund for Policy and Human Resources Development
PIM                 Project Implementation Manuel
PIP2                Private Irrigation Promotion project
PMR                 Project Management Report
PMU                 Project Management Unit
PNEDD               National Environmental Plan for Sustainable Development
PNLCP               Programme Cadre National de Lutte Contre de la Pauvrete
(National Poverty Reduction Program)
PPF                 Project preparation facility
PPIP                Projet pilote de promotion de l'irrigation privge
(Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project)
PPODR               Projet Petites Operations de Developpement Rural
(Small Rural Operations Project)
PRE                 Programme de Relance Economique (Economic Recovery Program)



PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QBS                 Quality-Based Selection
QCBS                Quality Cost-Based Selection
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
TOR                 Terms of reference
UNCDF               United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNEP                United National Environment Programme
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Daniel Sellen



NIGER
COMMUNITY ACTION PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                               Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                             3
2. Project development objective                                                   3
3. Global objective                                                                4
4. Key performance indicators                                                      4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             12
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans               14
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             16
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  19
3. Benefits and target population                                                 20
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  25
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            26
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                  30
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                          30
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       31
2. Financial                                                                       32
3. Technical                                                                       32
4. Institutional                                                                   33
5. Environmental                                                                   35
6. Social                                                                          36
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              38



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   39
2. Critical risks                                                                   39
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   41
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          41
2. Other                                                                            41
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        41
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       42
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 57
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          79
Annex 11: STAP review for GEF financing                                                81
Annex 12: GEF Incremental Cost Analysis                                                86
Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements                                                   95
Annex 14: Summary of Social Impact Analysis                                            98
Annex 15: Gender profile for Niger                                                    103
Annex 16: Summary of Environmental Assessment and Environmental and Social Management  104
Framework
MAP(S)
IBRD 32251



NIGER
Community Action Program
1FroDect Appraisall @Documennt
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: February 24, 2003                            Team Leader: Daniel M. Sellen
Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                 Sector(s): Sub-national government administration
Country Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh              (100%)
Project lID: P065991                               Theme(s): Decentralization (P), Poverty strategy, analysis
Lending linstrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  and monitoring (P), Small and medium enterprise support
(P), Civic engagement, participation and community
driven development (P)
Global Supplemental lRD: P073011                   Team Leader: Daniel M. Sellen
Sector Manager/Director: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh        Sector(s): General agriculture (100%), fishing and
Lending linstrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  forestry sector (100%)
Focal Area: M                                      Theme(s): Enviromnental policies and institutions (P),
Supplement IFully Blended? Yes                     Biodiversity (P), Other environment and natural resources
management (S)
.n.Indlcatie L- FL, nicln3 Plan     .aprlam,i    .      i-a          a, !3,.
IDA              Others       Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1       35.00    79.9       8.83       43.83   06/30/2003   06/30/2007 Government of Niger
Grant I
APL 2       40.00    76.9      12.00       52.00   06/30/2006   06/30/2010 Governrnent of Niger
Loan/
Credit
APL 3       50.00    75.8      16.00       66.00   06/30/2009   06/30/2013 Government of Niger
Loan/
C redit,_                            _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 4       60.00    75.0      20.00       80.00   06/30/2012   06/30/2016 Goverinment of Niger
Loan)
C red it                                        _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total      185.00              56.83      241.83
[ I Loan     [ 1 Credit  1[X Grant     C Guarantee       1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 35.00
Fi~iancing  an(6US`n)    l   Sourc           e__'_ 'i___:;-,;:_                       _      _ .  , ;  Lo_ o gn
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              2.83           0.00           2.83
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               2.00           0.00           2.00
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE                                  28.93           6.07          35.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                     2.60            1.40          4.00
Total:                                                         36.36            7.47         43.83



Borrower/Recipient: REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie, Direction du Developpement Regional et Local
Address: B.P. 869 Niamey, Niger
Contact Person: M. Najim, Directeur, DDRL
Tel: 75 32 01           Fax: 75 25 49          Email: pac@intnet.ne
P065991 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
,_    _ ;   __  _   1  2004   .'2005' -  2006  J  2007  _         l          _ l
Annual      6.50      7.10       9.90     11.50
Cumulative     6.50      13.60     23.50      35.00
P073011 (GEF) Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/USSm):
FY.    - '2004    :       2005-  2006   - 2007:
Annua       1.20      0.90       0.90      1.00
Cumulative        1.20       2.10      3.00       4.00
Project implementation period:
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2007
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Niger Community Action Program (CAP) is aimed at sustained poverty reduction and improved
local governance through empowering communities and local governments, to improve natural resource
and ecosystem management, and to raise levels of health, education, and food security, thereby
stimulating economic growth .These goals will be achieved through local-level capacity-building efforts
and implementation of demand-driven micro-projects.
In Niger, as in most poor countries, communities struggle to find ways to manage and finance local
development to meet the most basic of needs. Government has long been developing the legal and
administrative frameworks with an ultimate view to the devolution of powers of decision and
responsibility for management of financial resources for local development to elected local officials. In
the interim, it has promoted deconcentration of public services, but even here implementation has fallen
short of expectations. Local administrations are expected to improve the delivery of services, but are
constrained by inadequate resources, limited capacity, and weak linkages with civil society and the
private sector. Communities typically lack the financial resources and decision-making powers to manage
their own development. They seek greater participation in decisions that affect them, but face obstacles
to doing so. As a result, the process of authentic decentralization has not begun, and true
community-driven development in Niger exists only in isolated cases supported by donors or NGOs.
However, there is a renewed political and administrative momentum towards decentralization. The
evidence for this includes the Decree of the Council of Ministers of July 7, 2001 and the passage of Law
#2001-23 (August 10, 2001) and a revised version of the same law being adopted by the National
Assembly on April 19th 2002, which focus specifically on the creation and precise administrative
definition of the various levels of decentralized local authorities. In a timely manner, therefore, the CAP
is explicitly aimed at supporting Niger's emerging process of decentralization by giving communities the
responsibility and resources for local development and by providing nascent local governments with the
means and administrative capacity to support the communities to which they are accountable. The
program is national in scope to address a poverty situation that is widespread. The program has a
long-term goal in recognition of the reality that decentralization is a process which canonly be
successfully achieved over time. The Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument, therefore, is chosen to
provide a flexible and long-term horizon with which to accomplish the program's purpose.
To reach the goal of national coverage, the program aims at implementation over a 12-year period with a
phased approach of progressive geographic expansion (i.e. the so-called "horizontal" version of the
APL). As such, this will require close collaboration or cofinancing with other donors, most of whom
have been involved with community-based development for many years. The initial four-year phase will
include a minimum coverage of 15-20% of the populations of rural and urban communes in all eight
regions. This phase is the subject of this PAD. Subsequent phases will be initiated independently of the
termination dates of the previous phase. Rather, they will begin when readiness criteria for expansion are
satisfied. Performance triggers are described in section B.4.
-3 -



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the first phase of the CAP is to assist the Government of Niger to
establish and operationalize decentralized, participatory, and transparent financing mechanisms
that empower poor communities and local governments to take charge of their own development.
This objective will be achieved primarily by building communities' ability to engage in participatory
appraisal, priority setting, local development planning, micro-project implementation, monitoring, and
evaluation. In conjunction with community development, capacity-building efforts will target local
governments with the aim of transferring increasing amounts of financial resources and responsibilities to
them. The financing mechanisms for phase 1 will be based on a matching grant (the Local Investment
Fund) with which participating communities and eligible local governments may carry out micro-projects
of their choice. In order to respect the priorities of the communities and the local governments and to
better address poverty, the scope of such investments will be as multisectoral as possible. Communities
will be expected to contribute in cash or in kind and local governments in cash, to demonstrate
commitment and to encourage priority-setting.
3. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The extent of environmental degradation in Niger is massive, and it is improbable that a purely
demand-driven project will be able to effectively address this problem, which is at the root of poverty and
food insecurity. As the majority of Nigeriens struggle to meet short-term livelihood needs like food and
clean water, it is unrealistic to expect that long-term goals of sustainable natural resource management
would place high on a list of community priorities, (at least not in the initial stages of their participation
in the program). For this reason, and to ensure that the local planning processes and actions undertaken to
benefit rural development needs will be informed by consideration of the relevant cross-cutting
environmental issues and so be cumulatively translated into global environmental benefits, the CAP's
IDA development objective will be supported through financing from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), under the Operational Program Directive #12 (OP12). In this way, the poverty focus of the
program will also address Niger's increasingly severe problems of land and water degradation, which is
thought to threaten desertification over the sub-region.
In view of the reality that the basis of living for both urban and rural Nigerians (and their poverty level)
cannot be separated from the surrounding environment and ecosystem (the linkages between local
development and natural resource and ecosystem management are described in Annex 11), the CAP will
pro-actively promote a concept known as community-based integrated ecosystem management"
(CBEEM). "Integrated Ecosystem Management" is a concept promoted in GEF's OP 12 and is defined for
this program as harmonized management of the cultivated areas, natural rangelands, and water resources
in order to maintain or recover a balance in the multiple functions of these natural resources as seen from
local, national and global ecosystem perspectives. Concretely, for this Sahelian country, achieving this
balance will involve the maintenance or recovery of the condition of its natural resources, through local
and national level initiatives since, in their contribution to the reduction of poverty, such natural
resources function as direct providers of cropping areas, water and fodder for communities' livestock and
wildlife, household energy, food, medicinal products, veterinary products, construction material, shelter,
and as areas of cultural and social value, barriers to land and water degradation and sources of carbon
sequestration and biodiversity.
-4 -



The global environmental objective of this program is therefore to promote community-based
integrated ecosystem management as a means of reducing the region's vulnerability to
desertification and poverty, while fostering the multiple global environmental benefits such as
reduction of vulnerability to climate change and conservation of biodiversity and agro-biodiversity.
4. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The CAP is in the business of institution building, and as such many of the performance indicators are
process indicators measuring improved outreach and quality of administrative capacity and social capital.
These are to be balanced by outcome and output indicators measuring the results of integrated
development choices and actions taken at the community, commune and national level.With respect to
community investment in micro-projects, estimated totals of expected outputs will not be possible a
priori, precisely because the micro-projects are demand-driven through community needs assessments
carried out as part of project implementation. However, it is possible to summarize the categories and
types of indicators. Performance will be evaluated in project areas in terms of:
*   Local institutional capacity: Number of commnunities and communes capable of carrying out needs
assessments and of fornulating feasible and gender-responsive integrated local
development/ecosystem plans. Number of communities and communes directly executing
micro-projects.Assessment of impact of project capacity-building of community-based organizations.
Reduced time lags to implementation. Decreased management to investment cost ratios.
*   Central institutional capacity: Degree to which policy, legal, and financial frameworks for
decentralization have been acted on by various sectors of central govemment in effective support of
local development efforts. National cross-sectoral and gender-responsive poverty M&E system
established, encompassing both baseline and mainstreaming indicators for an evidence-based
monitoring of the condition of the country's natural resources, which includes changes in ecosystem
cover and trends in ecosystem management.
*   Investment volume: Proportion of national resources mobilized by participating rural and urban
communities and communes; trend in overall investment and distribution; trends in number and types
of investments including the range of microprojects involving activities promoting or supporting
integrated management of communities' and commune's natural resources.
*   Living conditions: Improved use of and more equitable access for members of communities to key
social and economic services and infrastructure; specific output benefits to households and
communities from improved integrated planning and management of natural resources. Outcome of
the efforts to contribute to the stabilization of the prevalence of HIV infection.
*   Employment and income generation: Number ofjobs created through micro-projects, with distinction
of projects involving activities promoting or supporting employment related to the integrated
management of a community's natural resources. Income levels of community members in general
and in particular of socially marginalised groups.
*   Natural resource management: Ecosystem status as measured by trends in the condition of the
natural resources such as cropping areas, for water and fodder for sedentary and non-sedentary
livestock and local and migratory wildlife, and for household energy, food, medicinal products,
construction material, shelter; trends in the removal of barriers to CBIEM such as changes in land
cover; trends in the levels of degradation of land and water resources, and of sources of carbon
sequestration and biodiversity; trends in the different categories and effectiveness of initiatives to
reduce vulnerability to climate change.



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25203-NIR Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/14/2003
The overall goal of Bank assistance to Niger continues to be the reduction of the number of poor people
through sustainable and equitable economic growth. While recognizing some progress since the previous
CAS, the current document notes that this objective is constrained by a highly degraded natural
environment, explosive population growth, extremely low human and institutional capacity, very limited
international competitiveness, its location in a potentially volatile sub-regional context, uncertain donor
commitment, and years of poor governance. In this context, the vulnerability of the Nigerien population
is the central theme of the recent CAS.
The Bank's new CAS is fully aligned with the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
which rests upon four pillars: (i) a macroeconomic framework ensuring economic and financial stability
while promoting sustainable and robust growth; (ii) development of productive sectors, especially in
rural areas, to mitigate vulnerability and stimulate income generation; (iii) improvement in the access of
the poor to quality social services, including basic education, primary health care, reproductive health,
BEIV/AIDS prevention, water and sanitation, and adequate urban habitat; and (iv) strengthening
institutional and individual capacity within and outside Government, at the central and local level. In
accordance with the IDA 13 guidelines for allocation of grants, Niger has received a significant
proportion of future funding in the form of IDA grants. The purposes for which grants are being used in
Niger were discussed in the recent CAS.
The Community Action Program will strengthen the latter three pillars. It will encourage and address
communities' needs for income-generating activities through provision of local investment funds, while
integrating focussed efforts to preserve the natural resource base and ecosystems. To the extent that
improved social services are priorities for communities, the CAP will finance schools, health posts, water
supply, disease prevention efforts, and other such micro-projects through a demand-driven planning
process. Finally, and most importantly, the CAP recognizes that poverty reduction will require a greater
role from communities, NGOs, and civil society in the definition, implementation, and execution of local
development efforts and will focus on building local capacity to do so.
Seen more broadly, the CAP must be viewed as part of the Bank's corporate recognition that recognizes
the need for interventions along multiple axes: (i) macro-economic interventions with the aim of growth,
(ii) sector-specific work and policy reforms, and (iii) empowering communities to take control of their
own development. For Niger, the CAP constitutes this third leg, and reflects the Africa Region's response
to the Bank's corporate priority of community-driven development (CDD). The CDD initiative responds
to the OED's observation that community-based projects are more likely to be rated satisfactory than
other projects (particularly in Africa).
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Co-financing of the CAP from the IDA grant and the GEF grant produces mutual benefits.
GEF-supported activities will benefit from the nation-wide and cross-sectoral approach of the project, the
decentralized management structures and logistics of the program and the community presence. In
addition, the fulfillment of the short-term basic needs of communities will allow them to devote more
attention to integrated local development planning for natural resource and ecosystem management
issues, which requires a longer-term perspective. Conversely, the IDA-supported activities will benefit
from the GEF financing through targeted capacity-building at the local level, and GEF's support for the
management of longer-term local, national and global environmental concerns, which address
- 6 -



sustainability of the poverty reduction effort. To foster a broader regional impact, the CAP will continue
to coordinate closely with the development and implementation of similar CDD projects in Burkina Faso,
Guinea, and elsewhere, which also involve an OP12 component. The proposed CAP also complements
other GEF initiatives in progress or under preparation in Niger (see Annex 12).
The proposed program is fully consistent with the objectives of GEF's OP12 noted above. By supporting
land and water degradation control in West Africa through CBIEM in Niger, the project will lead to at
least three of the four type of global environmental benefits distinguished by OP12 through its
contribution to the maintenance or recovery of biodiversity, climate change and land degradation. In this
manner, the CAP's GEF grant funds will support Niger in its compliance with its international
commitments. Niger ratified the Biodiversity Convention and the UNFCCC in 1995 and the Convention
to Combat Desertification the following year. Niger is also signatory to the Convention on Migratory
Species, the African/Eurasion Migratory Waterbird Agreement, the Cites Convention, and the Ramsar
Convention.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Key structural and institutionalfeatures of the sector
The countries of the Sahel are among the poorest in the world, and by most measures Niger is the poorest
of these, with more than two-thirds of the population living in poverty. If trends continue, this proportion
and total number will continue to increase - the current per capita GDP ($180) is less than half of what it
was two decades ago. But poverty is not simply the result of low income levels. It is also caused by
widespread lack of access to food, clean water, natural resources, medical care, education, financing, and
other economic and social services. This section reviews the multi-sectoral dimensions of poverty in
Niger.
Land resources: The CAS recognizes that the biggest obstacle to promoting rural development in Niger
is the agro-ecological resource base, which is characterized by fragile and degrading arable land, low
rainfall and periodic droughts. A combination of rapid population growth, southward migration due to
droughts, and few opportunities for employment outside of agriculture, has put increasing pressure on
limited amounts of fertile land, and this land is disappearing fast. In 1965, one quarter of Niger was
arable; now only one eighth is arable (during a period when population has almost quadrupled).
Eighty-five percent of Niger's population is thus pressed into a corridor north of the Nigerian border
about 100 to 150 kilometers wide. With the encroachment of the Sahara and an apparent downward trend
in rainfall across the Sahel, there is perhaps no country in the world more at risk from desertification.
Within this overall framework of the need to reduce Niger's vulnerability to climate change, any strategy
for sustainable development must therefore urgently come to grips with arresting the degradation of-
and promoting the ultimate improvement of - Niger's land resources.
Water resources: Niger's scarcest resource - water - is the primary factor in agricultural productivity
and, by extension, household and national incomes. Niger has by far the lowest level of annual internal
water resources in the region. Ninety-nine percent of cultivated lands are rainfed, leaving crops and farm
incomes vulnerable to erratic rainfall and droughts. Farmers lack the technologies, credit, and
organization to access ground and surface water and to successfully share its use. Improved rural
infrastructure such as small-scale irrigation schemes, village water catchments, and soil/water
management technologies while reducing Niger's vulnerability to climate change related issues, could
therefore have major impacts on communities' food security. Such activities, however, must be developed
taking into account the multifunctionality of the land and water resources of ecosystems as a whole in the
context of development concerns and environmental interests.
- 7-



Biodiversity: The natural flora and fauna of the Sahel are well adapted to cope with the erratic and harsh
climatic conditions, while the agricultural species are much more vulnerable to the climatic forces, with
the associated degradation of agro-biodiversity. The increasing pressure on the diminishing natural
rangelands and water resources in the south, has not only led to overall decrease in availability and
productivity of these natural resources but has also led to loss of biodiversity as a result of
overexploitation of natural species used as food, fodder, household energy, medicinal products,
veterinary products, and construction material.
Agriculture and food security: The earlier Bank Poverty Assessment for Niger (1 5344-NIR) and
Niger's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) of 2002 both consider rural development the
cornerstone of a poverty reduction strategy in view of the fact that agriculture provides the vast majority
of employment, food, and income for Nigeriens. Of the national actively employed population, 84
percent of men and 97 percent of women are involved in growing crops or raising livestock. Despite the
large share of public investment financing devoted to rural development (53% over the period 1991-97),
agricultural GDP grew at an average annual rate of only 0.9 percent in real terms in the period 1966-96,
mainly from increasing the area under cultivation. This has meant an annual decline in per capita
agricultural GDP by about two percent, and a widespread increase in the number of food insecure
households. One factor is that yields for the staple crops -- millet and sorghum - are low and declining.
Pastoralism is also very important in Niger, but the national herd has suffered tremendously from
recurring droughts and the decreased availability, declining condition and reduced accessibility of
grazing and water areas during the dry season. A growing source of conflict in the country is the fact that
seasonal movements of pastoral peoples and their herds have difficulties passing through the agricultural
zone to reach the Nigerian market to the south. Apart from low and variable farm incomes, the
combination of low yields, scarce water, declining soil fertility, and inadequate marketing infrastructure
are the main reasons for widespread food insecurity. While there is scope for increased exports of certain
high value agro-pastoral products, most rural households will continue to depend on subsistence
agriculture for the foreseeable future.
Health: Statistics on the health of Nigeriens reveal a dismal situation. One out of four children die before
their fifth birthday. Life expectancy is very low (44 years for males). Four out of five births take place
outside health facilities, and two thirds of women receive no prenatal care. The maternal mortality rate is
the highest in the world. Forty-three percent of children under five suffer from malnutrition. Only 30
percent of Nigeriens live within five kilometers of a health facility. Three-quarters of expenditure and
four-fifths of personnel are devoted to urban areas, much of which is associated with hospitals rather than
primary care clinics. Rural communities are largely dependent on traditional medical products coming
from the declining and degrading natural rangelands. As many medicinal plants are no longer readily
accessible in Niger, materials are being imported in increasing quantities from Nigeria. More than 90
percent of all health care in Niger is provided by traditherapeuts (herbalists) and matrons (traditional
birth attendants).There are an estimated 27,000 traditherapeuts and only 300 "western" trained doctors
resulting in the polarized ratios of traditionally skilled personnel per people at 1:400, and of Western
medical skills at 1:35,000, respectively.
HIV/AIDS: The official estimate of the prevalence of HTV infection in Niger is under two percent.
While this is low compared to other African countries, it is a situation that could change fast - since
already one in three individuals in certain military and hospital populations, according to recent surveys,
carry the disease. Myths about disease transmission prevail, and communities are reluctant to
acknowledge the threat and discuss mitigation strategies for reasons of denial and fear. While some
prevention programs currently exist, Niger cannot afford a strategy where these gradually expand to
national coverage. Inclusion of traditherapeuts and matrons in activities to prevent spreading of HIV
infection needs attention. Several new projects, including the IDA-funded AIDS project, are beginning to
address this growing threat.
-8 -



Education: Niger's primary school enrollment rate is very low, and the literacy rate is the lowest in the
world. This problem is particularly acute for girls, among whom less than one fifth attend school. Factors
that discourage enrollment are long distances to school, low quality of education, and a low probability
of being hired in the modem sector. Being poorly educated, many communities are therefore unable to
liaise or negotiate effectively with local administrations, central government, NGOs, and donors. Another
consequence is that farmer organizations, cooperatives, and professional associations tend to be very
weak.
Water and sanitation: Household access to clean water is probably the single most important
determinant of health in Niger. Only half of Nigeriens have such access. The time devoted by women and
girls to gathering water and transporting goods is a major constraint to their participation in other
economic activities, as well as in literacy and education programs. Only fifteen percent of communities
have access to sanitation.
Transport infrastructure: For those farmers who manage to produce marketable surpluses, access to
consumers is difficult. The condition of the main road network is in serious decline. Niger's rural network
is poorly developed, with many routes impassable in the rainy season. This has important implications
for farmers' timely access to markets, as well as the ability of extension agents and input suppliers to
reach clients. When routes are in poor condition, farmers are obliged to rely on non-motorized forms of
transport, a duty which often falls upon the shoulders of women and children. To date, a highly
centralized Ministry of Equipment has been largely unsuccessful in mobilizing communities to provide
maintenance of roads.
Micro-finance: Nigeriens have very limited access to credit. What little financing is available usually
comes from projects with donor-specific procedures. Following the collapse of the Rural Development
Bank and the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne, the formal financial sector is alrnost completely absent in the
rural sector. Banks are generally not interested in accepting the risk, insufficient collateral, and high
transaction costs involved with lending to smallholders or community groups. Despite the recent
expansion of decentralized financial systems, through non-banking financial institutions, recent statistics
estimate that only 3-4 percent of the active population have access to them. A new IFAD project
(PDSFR) is expected to give a much needed boost to this sector.
Public sector management: A major obstacle to implementing an effective conmnunity development
strategy in Niger is the scarcity and management of public resources. There is often little coherence in
the design and implementation of projects, and most operations, even in the same subsector, do not
coordinate approaches or are prepared and implemented without taking account of any priority public
investment program (although with the PRSP this is expected to change). Decision-making powers, staff,
and financial resources continue to be concentrated at the center. Even so, incentives for public servants
are poor as wages are frequently delayed or skipped entirely. About three quarters of recurrent
expenditure in line ministries are devoted to personnel salaries and allowances, with much of the
remainder to utility costs, leaving very little -for recurrent outlays. Even so incentives for public servants
are poor as wages, before the end of 1999, were frequently delayed or skipped entirely. There is limited
autonomy of key ministries to decide allocation of funds between different programs and projects given
the large and inflexible wage bill, and their limited control over personnel decisions. In addition, a large
share of the investment budget finances the recurrent costs of government agencies rather than services
for communities. Execution rates for the investment expenditures remain very low (about 50 percent),
due to limited institutional capacity, poor utilization of existing manpower resources, and lack of
counterpart funds. Disbursement and procurement procedures are cumbersome and poorly managed. The
present system for monitoring progress and evaluating impact of programs and projects is insufficient.
-9-



Government Strategy
Economic growth and poverty reduction: The Programme Cadre National de Lutte Contre de la
Pauvrete (PNLCP) was adopted in 1998 at a round table in Geneva to reduce and ultimately eliminate
poverty through investments and policy reform aimed at improving economic conditions and developing
social sectors. The PNCLP is based on principles shared by the CAP: (i) participatory approaches to
identifying, programming, implementing, and evaluating development interventions; (ii) decentralization
and local-level capacity-building; (iii) capitalization of synergies between development partners; (iv)
geographically-focussed actions; (v) adoption of labour-intensive techniques; (vi) systematic integration
of gender concerns; (vii) addressing environmental concerns in all activities; (viii) transparency of
management and a communication strategy; and (ix) the sustainability of actions. Results of the PNLCP
thus far have been modest, in part due to the political upheaval in 1999 and consequent exodus of donors.
Government readily acknowledges that the program has not successfully grappled with the
macro-economic dimension, nor has it produced a system of monitoring and evaluation. However, the
program has served to coordinate actions of certain donors, has facilitated the emergence of many
community organizations, and has explicitly underscored the government's intention to strengthen civil
society and operate in a participatory manner.
Coincident with the establishment of the new government in December 1999, was the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) exercise, which is a condition of debt relief under the HIPC. Government
acknowledges that the PRSP presents a way to take forward the PNLCP from a vision and guiding
principles to strategies and actions. The PRSP was completed in January 2002 (Report No. 23483-NIR),
and puts health, education, and rural development as the central focus of poverty reduction, the
framework of the four pillars mentioned in section B 1. The challenge will be to operationalize these
efforts, coordinate line ministries, harmonize diverse donor activities, and monitor impact. Improved
local governance and decentralization are seen as key elements in the strategy.
Decentralization and community-based development: Since independence, Niger has initiated an
variety of policies aimed at development and modernization of local administration and local service
provision. Many line ministries have deconcentrated their staff to regions and arrondissements. However,
the lack of operational funding has left most of them unable to reach communities.
However, many of the necessary policies are in place. For example, in 1993 Government approved the
implementation of a Rural Code, which established rules for the access, use and management of natural
resources, including the obligatory requirement that consultation with communities whenever public
actions are taken for collective investments. While management and use of natural resources in Niger has
always been collective, local communities have lacked the legal right to do so. To address this issue, a
decentralization law was adopted by the national assembly in 1993 and declared effective the following
year. Under this law, districts and municipalities would become legal entities, bearing responsibility over
local finances, management of iocal public services and community assets, with representation by
electoral bodies, district and municipal councils (previous laws did not consider autonomy at village or
terroirs levels). During the period 1996-98, Parliament adopted a series of laws establishing new
administrative divisions of the country and providing for the creation of local governments at the region,
departrnent, arrondissement, and commune levels. These have been respecified in recent Acts and the
most recent legislation provides for a total of 265 communes (52 urban and 213 rural).
There has been a parallel process of restructuring various administrative arms of government. The Haut
Commissariat a la Reforme Administrative et d la Decentralisation (HCRAD) was established by
Presidential Decree on August 15th 1995 as a non-permanent agency of government, with the specific
mandate to define the necessary administrative reforms, the principles and procedures for
decentralisation, and the human resources needs. Following the Presidential decree of November 26th
- 10-



2001, the newly named Ministry of the Interior and Decentralisation is now in the process of establishing
an entirely new Department of the same name, with four Directorates responsible for different
dimensions of the decentralisation process. Even more recently, a coordinating Consultative Committee
on Decentralisation (CCD) was established by arrete on January 2nd 2002, bringing together these two
government agencies and all interested development partners, with a view to consolidating the available
financial human and technical resources for the implementation of the process.
It is recognised that in addition to the need for an iterative national communication program and for
renewed efforts to restructure national sectoral ministries and to deconcentrate their respective personnel,
the principle challenge will be the setting in place of a coherent framework for financing the different
levels of local government and the reinforcement of capacity at all levels.
Despite these advances in the policy framework, however, real advances in decentralization have yet to
be felt at the community level. Public resources remain centralized, and local authorities have failed to
secure the active participation of local communities to articulate demand and manage their own
development. Local elections have not taken place, but are foreseen in the near future, likely early in the
first phase of the CAP. Also, substantial work is required on fiscal and administrative arrangements to
ensure that local governments (a) have the flexibility and mandate to respond to the needs of their
constituents; (b) has the financial and human resource capacity to respond effectively; (c) are
accountable to the local populations as well as to the central government (for those services delegated to
local governments); and (d) can obtain information and monitor services for which they are ultimately
responsible.
Natural resource management policy:: In April 1998, the National Environment Council for
Sustainable Development (CNEDD) adopted the National Environmental Plan for Sustainable
Development (PNEDD) representing the objectives, policies, strategies and priority programs for
environmentally sustainable development. The document reflects a consensus between representatives of
the Government, the private sector and the civil society and lists the following six priority programs: (i)
National Action Plan of Desertification Control and Natural Resources Management (PAN/LCD-GRN);
(ii) Sustainable Water Development Program; (iii) Sustainable Energy Development Program; (iv) Urban
Environment Development Program; (v) Biodiversity Management Program; and (vi) Variability and
Change of Climate Program. Within the Ministry of Agricultural Development, the Natural Resources
Management Unit (Cellule de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles, C/GRN) is responsible for the
development of policies and strategies relating to natural resource management. The C/GRN, in
collaboration with other Ministries, has developed the PAN/LCD-GRN, which supports
community-based natural resource management and managed the IDA-funded Natural Resources
Management Project (PGRN). The PGRN closed in September 2002, and a specific undertaking to
transfer much of its experience and capacity to the CAP was made by the Ministry of Agricultural
Development and the Ministry of Finance since the CAP is expected to build on the substantial
experience and capacity created under the PGRN. Presently, a National Soil Fertility Action Plan is being
developed which would be implemented under the PAN/LCD-GRN. Under the guidance of the CNEDD,
the Ministry of Agricultural Development and the Ministry of Environment are currently developing a
long term socio-economic and natural resources monitoring and evaluation system to evaluate the impact
of PAN/LCD-GRN supported activities.
In this context, the human capacity, knowledge and experience regarding community-based natural
resource management (CBNRM) is fairly well developed in Niger and is being implemented through
several projects. However, the main remaining constraints to a sustainable management of the natural
resources are the lack of a holistic approach towards the management of ecosystems, the lack of
appropriate land and water tenure policies, and a lack of financial mechanisms and resources to allow



communities to take charge of the responsible management their own environmental needs. In its Letter
of Development Policy the Government of Niger has committed itself to proactively supporting
integrated local development as its main approach to the reduction of poverty in Niger; both the Letter,
and this associated Comrnunity Action Program take as a point of departure and guiding framework the
execution of participatory conmmunity-based and integrated local development/ecosystem planning, as an
effective means of building greater capacity to address the multisectoral causal connections and complex
interfaces of the determinants of poverty.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Community-driven development
Strategic choices for effective projects in Niger are suggested in the conclusions of the poverty
assessment field work carried out in Tillaberi in 1998, which lend strong support to the proposed CDD
approach. The mission identified projects which were unanimously recognized by local administration,
traditional authorities, and communities as having the most positive impact on people's living conditions.
In summary, these projects had the following characteristics:
*   They are long term (about 10-15 years) in order to build capacity, yet they give priority to
income-generating and food security interventions that meet the short-term basic needs of the poor.
*   They are integrated and multi-sectoral rather than narrowly sector-specific, to reflect a diversity of
needs and address constraints to productivity that lie outside of agriculture.
*   They stress software - sensitization, community organization, participation, and capacity-building -
over public works and technical assistance.
*   They are decentralized (both in terms of resources and processes) and demand-driven (guided and
managed by local communities), as opposed to depending on decisions and resources from Niamey.
*   They encourage communication and horizontal circulation of information while recognizing and
supporting the potential of women and young people.
The CAP will incorporate all these design principles in the following ways. First, it is being prepared as
an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), in recognition of the importance of capacity-building and the
consequent need for a longer time horizon. Second, because it is demand-driven, the CAP will directly
address the priorities of communities. Project financing will cover a multi-sectoral range of
micro-projects that will include inter alia water supply, schools, clinics, soil and water conservation
measures, road repair, HIV/AIDS prevention, tree nurseries, cereal banks, etc within the framework of
integrated local development/ecosystem plans.Third, the project will develop concrete options for
supporting Niger's process of decentralization, by working with and building capacity in local
governments as they emerge. Fourth, the project will devote a substantial portion of the project budget to
communication efforts. A public awareness campaign will be key to successfully informing the public
of the potential for and expectations of decentralization in general and the project in particular, and will
help circulate information on successful cases among communities. Finally, the project will inclusively
work with take vulnerable and marginalised population groups; strict rules for community
participation will help ensure that women, young people and pastoralists are involved in
decision-making.
- 12 -



(b) Community-based integrated ecosystem management
The integrating of GEF global objectives within a CDD framework presents several challenges. One is to
ensure that the CBIEM approach is promoted at the grass-roots level without compromising the
demand-driven principle which respects communities' priorities. In addition, the CAP must also devise
ways to ensure that regional benefits are realized through local actions. To meet these challenges, the
following strategic choices were made to pro-actively promote and support CBIEM:
*   The program will actively assist communities in analyzing and operationalizing the linkages between
poverty reduction and the benefits of CBIEM.. Pilot activities in preparation for the program
indicated that the participatory diagnostic methodologies used by facilitators in development of
action plans in six pilot sites did not sufficiently articulate explicit linkages between poverty and the
condition of the natural resources. This suggests that a targetted effort must be made to ensure that
analysis of the local natural resource issues, the poverty-related problems and the solutions to the
management of these issues and the reduction of the poverty problems must be highlighted early in
the participatory appraisal process. It is required therefore that the facilitators or local development
agents of the CAP must be adequately trained to manage targeted assistance to communities on
CBLEM, using earmarked GEF funds under the capacity-building component.
*   The program will emphasize support to the national decentralization process to create an enabling
institutional and legislative environment conducive to CBIEM. As part of the preparation activities,
the GEF financed a study analyzing the existing institutional and legislative framework guiding
natural resources management and providing information on what will be needed to remove barriers
and create incentives to guide deconcentrated public services in the promotion of CBIEM. An issue
of particular interest is the inclusion of rights and interests of non-sedentary livestock holders in
natural resources tenure policies and the discouragement of cultivation of marginal lands. GEF funds
will be used to support the component on support to decentralization with respect to natural resource
management and the implementation of the Rural Code.
*   The program willfavour interventions in areas of environmental vulnerability and measure project
impact in these areas: The geographical coverage of the first phase of the CAP will select 15 - 20
percent of the population of Niger, based on administratively defined areas (communes) and socially
defined areas (communities), which do not necessarily correspond to local ecosystems. However,
preparation work financed under the GEF initiative has already identified 23 areas characterized by
complex agro-ecological production systems comprising sedentary and non-sedentary livestock
systems, cropping systems, and shared surface waters. These stand to benefit substantially from
CBEEM, and the CAP will target approximately half of the 23 currently identified areas in the first
phase. As such, while the coverage of the CAP is expected to eventually be national, initial
preference will be given to communes that include or border these ecosystem zones.
*   Communities and the eligible pilot local authorities will have access to a single Local Investment
Fund, which represents blended IDA/GEFfinancing. Approximately half of the available GEF funds
will be fully blended with the IDA funds, representing about eight percent of the total amount
available for the matching grants. To encourage priority-setting and to simplify micro-project
financial management, communities and local authorities will not be exposed to separate IDA and
GEF windows. Instead, a single blended fund will be available to address CBLEM or non-CBIEM
community demands. However, GEF funds devoted to CBIEM micro-investments will be tracked for
accounting purposes.
*   The program will demand significantly lower community contributions for micro-projects promoting
CBIEM. Reduced contributions will be demanded if micro-projects contribute directly to the
maintenance or improvement of the condition of the ecosystem of the community territory, and if this
is convincingly supported by a written statement of the need for the activity in the context of poverty
- 13-



reduction and the current condition of the natural resources. A preliminary listing of the type of
activities considered CBIEM-related is given in Annex 1 1. However, this listing is not exhaustive
and will be expanded in the Project Implementation Manual and its later revisions.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Under the Niger CAP, communities will have access to a matching grant facility (the Local Investment
Fund, LIF), with which they can undertake investments in micro-projects of their choice. Each round of
LIF financing will be small, in most cases no greater than $25,000. To be eligible for LIF financing,
communities must proceed through the "micro-project cycle" and thereby satisfy the regional program
coordination teams that the decisions taken included (i) broad representation from the community, (ii)
that communities possess a modest and feasible local development plan, and (iii) that they are willing and
able to contribute a portion of the cost in cash, and/or in kind. Communities will receive assistance in
participatory appraisal and community-based contracting techniques primarily through contracted service
providers (such as NGOs), but communities themselves will manage the LIF. Local governments will
receive capacity-building assistance as part of the CAP, with the ultimate aim of transferring program
execution to them. In this way, the CAP will "prime the pump" of fiscal decentralization with the
long-term goal of establishing local capacity to manage development and a system of inter-governmental
fiscal transfers.
Four four-year phases are foreseen for the CAP. In accordance with the APL's flexible approach, the
"horizontal" form is chosen, i.e. each new phase will comprise a set of new communes every three years
or so, while maintaining the previous communities' access to the LIEF. As such, multiple phases may run
concurrently. If performance triggers are not met, subsequent phases may not take place.
Phase 0: Piloting
The CAP's preparation phase included an 18-month period in which community-based development
approaches were piloted in all eight regions of Niger (see section D.3 for more details). The purpose of
this pilot phase was to improve project design through building on and learning from the lessons of
experience in Niger, to provide an initial forum for sharing and harmonizing experiences, and to forge
preliminary institutional linkages with other institutions (NGOs and donors) who are also promoting a
CDD approach. The piloting phase provided an extremely important basis for the anticipated expansion
in phase I of implementation and the lessons of this experience are contained in this PAD.
Phase 1: Introduction
The first phase (i.e. the subject of this PAD) will target 15 to 20 percent of Nigerien communes. The
approach will emphasize community empowerment, while piloting models for improving local
governance. Service providers, who are contracted to provide capacity-building and local facilitation,
will start with a base set of communities in selected communes, and expand to cover the whole commune.
The matching grant will form the basis of the Local Investment Fund. A subset of the local authorities of
these communes will be selected to receive capacity-building in participatory methods, fiscal, and
administrative management. Studies and technical assistance on decentralization will be carried out
during the first phase to support and accelerate this process. During this time, the project will coordinate
with interested NGOs and donors, thus expanding the network of community operators established
during the pilot phase. This network will meet on a regular basis in a national CDD forum to compare
methods and experience and to encourage harmonization of approaches. Also during phase l, a poverty
monitoring system will be constructed to monitor and evaluate the CAP and also to inform the PRSP.
The participatory M&E system, based on community input, will also be consolidated.
- 14 -



Moving from phase 1 to phase 2 will depend on satisfying certain performance triggers related to the
satisfactory implementation of the first phase of the CAP's activities and the readiness of the project and
national capacity to expand geographically.
*   Beneficiary assessments indicate that eighty percent of communities and local stakeholders are
satisfied with the CAP and wish it to continue.
*   At least two-thirds of communities targetted in the first phase have received capacity-building
support and have drafted local development plans;
* One half of the communes selected for local governance capacity-building are considered ready to
assume key project management roles, in particular fiscal management, during the second phase of
the program.
*   Government, through its continued implementation of reforms, such as the holding of local elections,
and to the provision of financial support to phase I of the CAP, has demonstrated strong support for
decentralization and community-based development.
Phase 2 - 3: Expansion
Phase 2 and phase 3 will expand the CAP to approximately 40 percent and 65 percent of Nigerien
communities, respectively, by annexing new communes. This may be done directly through CAP
financing, or by collaborating with other donors who use the same approach. Communes involved in
phase I will continue to be supported by the project in phase 2, and thus communities in phase I who
have satisfactory performance will continue to have the Local Investment Fund at their disposal, although
it will require an increasingly larger contribution to be ac-essible. Increasingly, the matching grant for
income-generating activities will be replaced by savings-based credit and village banking services, based
on the ability of the emerging rural financial sector to support this. The network of CAP partners in the
national CDD forum will be expanded. Successful models of local govemance support, developed and
tested in the first phase, will be expanded to new and phase 1 communes. Those local govemments who,
in phase 1, demonstrated sufficient aptitude, would become the conduits through which the Local
Investment Fund would flow. In addition, they would play a leading role in initiating and overseeing the
process of local development, including the contracting of service providers for facilitation and approval
of local development plans. During these phases, an additional window for larger, inter-community
investments could conceivably be created to address demand for roads, water supply, and social
infrastructure.
Triggers from phase 2 to 3, and from phase 3 to 4 would be similar to those presented above.
Phase 4: Consolidation
The final phase would complete geographic expansion to 100 percent of Niger's population, and would
aim at ensuring that the institutional framework and capacity is in place to ensure sustainability of
program impact. At this point, most communities would no longer require the capacity-building services
provided initially. They would also be strongly linked to support agencies and service providers in the
public, private, and NGO sector. Similarly, many communes would have the necessary capacity to
facilitate local development.
- 15 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will have five components, consisting of (a) community support, (b) local
governance support (c) a Local Investment Fund, (d) poverty and environmental monitoring, and (e)
program management.
A. The Community Support component is aimed at introducing decentralized and participatory
planning procedures by building capacity of community-based organizations (CBOs), and maximising the
capacity of exisiting local indigenous institutions to design, implement, and manage micro-projects. This
component will be implemented in a selected sample of communes in all eight regions (about 15-20
percent of the total population), and will cover all villages or village groupings within these communes.
The hallmark of this component is the systematic use of participatory appraisal techniques to establish
the problems that poor communities face, to discuss solutions, and to plan the way ahead. Under this
component, NGOs or other facilitators will assist communities to (i) conduct needs assessments, (ii) draft
local development plans (LDPs), and (iii) facilitate implementation of micro-projects. The needs
assessments and LDPs will be submitted for approval and assessed using transparent criteria known in
advance to all stakeholders. The development plans will be implemented by the communities themselves,
under the leadership of committees created for this purpose. Communities will be able to exercise choice
over source of technical assistance, technology type, and investment design. Local government, NGOs,
and sector specialists may give input, guidance, and training, but may not interfere in implementation.
This is essential to empower communities, ensure correspondence of investment to needs, and ensure
accountability to the community.
The GEF resources will support CBOs in understanding the linkages between poverty reduction and
integrated management of the natural resources. They will also be used in the identification and inclusion
of primary stakeholders within communities having interest in the maintenance of the various type of
production functions of ecosystems (such as sedentary and non-sedentary livestock holders; croppers;
collectors of household products such as food, water and energy; fishermen; hunters and traditional
healers and nature conservationists). GEF funds will also support communities to design and implement
relevant micro-projects related to CBIEM.
B.     The Local Governance Support component is aimed at strengthening administrative and fiscal
dimensions of integrated local development. Given that decentralization in Niger is still in its infancy,
this effort will be modest and experimental in the first phase, but will be scaled up in subsequent phases
based on successful models developed in the first phase. This will involve local and central levels within
two sub-components:
*   Local governance:First, the CAP will work actively with a select set of local governments within
each of the eight regions, to build their capacity in participatory preparation of integrated local
development and ecosystem plans, and in the administrative, fiscal and technical management
required to support the effective execution of these plans, by ensuring that they work effectively with
their constituents and local indigenous institutions. This set of new governments will be selected
from the communes involved in the first phase of the CAP. The goal of this component is to increase
capacity such that these governments "graduate" and are able to assume the fiscal and administrative
responsibilities performed by the project.
- 16-



*   Policy and institutional reforms: Second, the CAP will assist the central government, notably the
High Commission for Administrative Reform and Decentralization (HCRAD), to accelerate the
process of decentralization. This component can provide studies and support a communication
program that helps enforce and publicize the legal and regulatory framework for decentralization,
while strengthening the capacity of central Ministries responsible for decentralization. Working with
line ministries, the project will assist in planning for deconcentrating staff and resources to the
lowest possible level of local government.
Since use and tenure rights over natural resources remain particularly important in the context of
decentralization, the GEF funds will be earmarked to support the Secretariat of the Rural Code in the
development of national and local environmental governance policies and frameworks for promoting
CBrEM by discouraging cultivation of marginal lands and banks of surface waters, and by resolving
conflicting interests and use of surface waters.
This component will be technically supported through the United Nations Capital Development Fund
(UNCDF). The UNCDF has been successfully piloting local governance approaches with two projects in
Mayahi and N'guigmi (the latter of which constituted one of the CAP pilots in the preparation phase), and
their experience will be replicated in other communes through this component.
C.     The Local Investment Fund (LIF) is the financial facility that will channel small fungible
capital grants to communities and local government for the financing of micro-projects. Initially, most of
the LIEF will flow from regional program coordination units (CCRs) to comnmunities (i.e. through the first
component). Eventually, the goal is to have the LIEF flow through local governments to support fiscal
decentralization, once accountable local governments established according to the laws of the Borrower
are in place and have reached a level of capacity to serve their communities in this way (i.e. through the
second component).
A central principle of the CAP is that communities may decide to use the LIF for any micro-project they
deem important, as long as it alligns with the local integrated development plan . These may include, but
are not limited to, natural resource management activities (soil fertility control, erosion control, tree
plantings and nurseries, fuelwood); and integrated micro-projects such as: production of crops, fish, and
livestock (irrigation, gardening, seedling production, livestock fattening, cereal banks, fish farming, food
processing, stockraising, beekeeping), water and sanitation (wells, boreholes); education (village schools,
literacy programs); health (clinics, health posts, HIV/AIDS and other specific disease prevention); rural
transport (rehabilitating local roads, small works); etc.
The LIF is a matching grant. As such, communities and eligible local authorities are expected to
contribute a certain percentage of the value of the investment, either in cash, or more likely in the form of
labour or materials. The amount of the initial grant would be small, in the majority of cases from $2.0 -
$2.8 per inhabitant. As a limited fund, the LIF would encourage priority-setting and avoid creation of
"wish lists". Communities and eligible local authorities that effectively access and execute the LIF would
be eligible in subsequent financing rounds for additional funding. In contrast, those who fail to respect
the terns of the grant would be excluded for a certain period.
Half of the available GEF funds will be blended with the IDA funds in this component. To promote and
support in particular the global environmental interests of CBIEM related activities, the proportional
community contribution required will be significantly lower for CBEEM related activities pertaining to
inter alia (i) community awareness raising activities relating to the interest in integrated ecosystem
management; (ii) the maintenance of the productivity, biodiversity and soil cover of the natural
rangelands, including the preservation and/or recovery of marginal lands and banks of surface waters,
(iii) the introduction of valuable native species of the natural rangelands within the cropping systems;
and (iv) allocation of cultivated areas to fodder production by native fodder species.
- 17 -



D.     The Poverty and Environmental Monitoring component is the CAP's M&E system. It will
serve three purposes: (i) to measure, in the context of the PRSP, national levels and trends of poverty; to
establish baselines and to monitor national trends in the quality of status of Niger's ecosystems and its
management of natural resources, and to monitor trends in community access to social and economic
services; (ii) to monitor the CAP in order to provide timely feedback to both communities and program
management in terms of relevance, efficiency, effectiveness and impact of program interventions, in
order that rapid corrective action can be taken if necessary; and (iii) to strengthen local communities'
capacity to analyze and manage their own integrated local development/ecosystem planning process. The
poverty monitoring component will have two related sub-components:
*   National poverty monitoring system: The CAP, as an instrument of the PRSP, will attempt to focus
investments to achieve sustainable poverty reduction from the poorest upwards. As such, the
national poverty monitoring system will seek to harmonize the access to, and the use and
maintenance of several of Niger's socio-economic and natural resources data sets. Rather than
generating new data, the CAP will integrate several disparate data sets on socio-economic and
environmental issues into a spatial geographic information system (GIS). Because the data sets are
currently sector-specific and unconnected, they fail to provide a multidimensional view of poverty.
In support of GEF objectives, this monitoring system will include data relating to the use and
condition of Niger's natural resources by incorporation and extension of the monitoring and
evaluation system currently under development within the context of the National Action Plan of
Desertification Control and Natural Resources Management (PANILCD-GRN). GEF funds will
ensure that this monitoring system will also explicitly incorporate socio-economic and natural
resources data relating to the use and condition of the existing ecosystems in their multiple function
seen from a local, national and regional/global perspective. Particular monitoring efforts with
respect to CBIEM will focus on the sites identified during preparation as especially important to
GEF (see Annex 12). A series of poverty maps from the data available have been generated as part
of project preparation, creating a baseline assessment of the Nigerien population's vulnerability
down to the village level. This baseline provides a way both to plan for and to measure future
progress, under either the CAP or other poverty reduction and NRM efforts. The coordinators of the
data system would have two initial objectives: (i) to work with Niger's research institutes,
government statistical bodies and NGOs to create the initial nationwide integrated spatial
assessment and decentralised mapping of poverty and the condition of the natural resources, and (ii)
to develop a strategy for sharing, using and maintaining data within Niger, making data spatial and
congruent with harmonized data sets as necessary. The sub-component would finance a small team
(two or three people), some hardware and software, training, and consultants.
*   Community-based M&E: The CAP will develop and implement a system for facilitating
community-wide reflection on their development and the evolution of that development over time.
With support from a community development agent, a community-chosen Monitoring and
Evaluation Committee will define the indicators that will be used to: (i) monitor CAP
micro-projects; (ii) evaluate the effect of the CAP and, potentially, of other local service providers
on the community, from a locally elaborated baseline; and (iii) systematically feed these
observations into regular re-adjustments of the local development plan. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Committee will be responsible for data collection and for the primary data analysis.
Community development agents will transmit a subset of these data to the decentralized project
implementation units. This system may also develop a mechanism for exchanging information on
and from the poor between the CAP and, locally, decentralized government agencies or, nationally,
to the PRSP. The sub-component will finance data collection, analysis, training, workshops and
dissemination of results.
- 18-



E.  The Support to Project Munsgement component will cover project coordination, field services
including technical support for the other four program components, financial management, and
establishment of a communication program on integrated local development. Project coordination will
include support for coordination meetings, liaison with the World Bank and other donors, and exchange
of experience at national fora. Field services include the training, personnel, equipment, and operating
costs associated with the program implementation in the eight regions. Financial management includes
operational planning and monitoring of the physical and financial execution of the CAP, procurement,
accounting, internal audit, and personnel management. The conimunication program includes
development and dissemination of information concerning program activities, approaches, results, and
possibly education in schools, on radio, and on television. The national program management unit and
the national program steering committee (see Section C4) will provide technical support and advisory
oversight to most of the activities of this component. GEF funds will cover the various aspects of
program management which coordinate cross-cutting CBIEM-related activities, including communication
initiatives to reach out to other relevant national, regional, and global environmental programs engaged in
a similar approach.
Indlcative         Barik    % of     GEF     % of
Component                            Cosat   % of   financing  Bani   financing  - GEF
(US$M)   Total   (US$J)  financing  (US$il) financing
A. Community Support                          3.50     8.0    2.60      7.4     0.50    12.5
B. Local Governance Support                   3.75     8.6    2.75      7.9     0.40    10.0
C. Local Investment Fund                     26.60    60.7   22.50     64.3     2.10    52.5
D. Poverty and Environmental Monitoring       4.99    11.4    3.44      9.8     0.50    12.5
E. Support to Project Management              4.99    11.4    3.71      10.6    0.50    12.5
Total Project Costs  43.83    100.0  35.00     100.0    4.00   100.0
Total Financing Required  43.83    100.0  35.00     100.0    4.00   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed program explicitly supports and is firmly rooted in the Government's efforts at
decentralization. The following recommendations, as derived from the 2000 Bank-financed public
expenditure review of the implications of decentralization, are provisional in that these and related issues
are currently being addressed by the various implicated Ministries and the CCD. However, through the
second component of the CAP , assistance will be provided to HCRAD , to the Ministry of the Interior
and of Decentralization and to the key cross-sectoral and sectoral Ministries (such as: the Ministry of
Environment and Desertification; the Ministry of Animal Resources, the Ministry of Agricultural
Development, the Ministry of Social Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education) in
the following categories of activities:
o   Detail the responsibilities devolved to the new collectivites territoriales (CT), including those
relating to decentralized environmental governance
o   Repartition national personnel and other resources progressively, in a manner consistent with the
goals of decentralization
o   Rework the budget nomenclature taking into account the norns of UEMOA and also the needs and
limited technical abilities of the CT;
o   Detail the financial base of intergovernmental transfers in terms of taxes and subsidies;
o   Put in place a financing mechanism for CT independent of the Treasury;
Other reforms and policy changes will likely be articulated and supported in the process of implementing
Component 2.
-19-



3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits are expected to be as follows (as suggested by the performance indicators listed in A.4):
*   Local institutional capacity: Sufficient capacity to be built at the local level to enable
communities and local govemment authorities to design, execute and evaluate integrated local
development/ ecosystem plans, to improve their management capabilities, and engage in
securing, planning and managing financial resources. While this capacity is a means to achieve
multiple and integrated benefits in sustainable social, economic and ecosystem development, the
explicitly intended empowerment of communities in the process may be seen as a benefit in
itself, and constitutes a prerequisite for sustainability. Capacity will also be built in local
governments for institutional sustainability of local development.
*   Central institutional capacity: In support of the PRSP, the program aims to improve govemance
by central ministries by supporting (a) the integration and implementation of the existing
cross-sectoral, institutional and legislative frameworks and (b) the monitoring and evaluation
system. Through its decentralized development strategy, the CAP provides a vehicle for central
government to disengage from direct community level activities. In this way, the state will be
better able to conserve and focus scarce resources on supplying national public goods and
services.
*   Improved living conditions: Increased and more equitable access to social and economic
services, and infrastructure, integrated with the sustainable use of natural resources, will improve
health and education levels and enhance food security; this will in tum raise the productivity of
the community members and their human and financial capacity to continue to invest locally.
Improved living conditions: Increased and more equitable access to social and economic
services, infrastructure, and natural resources will improve health and education levels and
enhance food security, which will in turn raise the productivity of the community members and
their human and financial capacity to continue to invest locally.
*   Employment and income generation: Increased income is expected from many categories of
productive micro-projects, either directly (as in the case of a sheep fattening facility), or
indirectly (as in the case of soil conserved to provide for sustainable crop production). Increased
involvement of the private sector in local development initiatives, such as when communities
contract local artisans and small-scale entrepreneurs for village infrastructure construction and
rehabilitation, will in turn increase local employment.
*   Natural resource management and global environmental benefits: A major focus of the CAP is
reduced degradation and recovery of the condition of arid and semi-arid ecosystems, which bear
upon quantity and quality of soil, water, and biodiversity. Over the CAP's lifetime, CBIEM is
expected to significantly enhance the carbon storage capacity of the soils and vegetation, as a
result of increased biomass on cropping and rangelands. In addition, conservation and
maintenance of biodiversity will be achieved through holistic management of land and water
resources. As such, the program will generate directly local, national and global environmental
benefits within the country while protecting the environmental assets of countries to the south.
The primary target group for the CAP are poor communities. In the first phase, the project is expected
to have a positive impact on the income and well-being of 1.5 million people (approximately fifteen
percent of the national population). Subsequent phases will remain working with this initial group, but
expand to take on new geographic areas. In addition, secondary target groups will include CBOs, local
indigenous institutions local governments, key central government agencies, and national and regional
programs working on global environmental objectives.
- 20 -



The CAP is a poverty targetted intervention. As such, it will give priority to populations which are
particularly poor or vulnerable. The definition of poverty/vulnerability is a composite of several
indicators and is the subject of the geographic "poverty mapping" exercise described in the poverty
monitoring component above. The CAP is also an "environmentally targetted intervention" and as such
will use a mapping exercise to identify those zones of relative high interest for achieving global
environmental benefits through CBIEM. Poor communities in and/or near such zones will receive
particular attention.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The first phase of the CAP will be carried out over four years. Procurement, disbursement, and
decentralized financial management practices will benefit from a wealth of new and simplified methods
developed and standardized recently in the Bank. These are described in Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursementfor Community-based Investments, February 1998; Guidelines for Africa
Region on Financial Management for Community Action Programs, October 2000; and Guidelines for
Task Teams on Procurement Procedures Used in Social Funds, February 2001, and Fiduciary
management for Community-driven Development projects, March 2002 (draft).
4.1 Capacity Assessment of Central Project Coordination Unit and Financial Monitoring Reports
A central Project Coordination Unit (Cellule de Coordination National, CCN) staffed with competent
and experienced staff, including a coordinator and an administrative and financial management specialist,
will be recruited through a competitive and transparent process in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA. Adequate provision will be made to train the accounting and financial staff. In
addition, the CCN will recruit a procurement specialist, an internal auditor financial controller, and an
experienced accountant.
The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which will provide the
borrower and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The
financial management systems will include budgetary accounting and financial reporting for internal
control device and auditing elements. A financial management consultant or firm would be selected to
assist in the design and establishment of the computerized financial management systems of the CCN.
The CCN will be responsible for project administrative and technical coordination as well as financial
management. The configuration of the CCN, the profile of the staff, and their job descriptions are
described in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
-21 -



4.2 Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting and Financial Reporting. The CCN and CCRs will maintain the books and accounts of the
project activities and will ensure that the production of the annual financial statements are done in a
timely manner. A financial management consultant or firm will be selected to design a computerized
accounting and financial management system, based on internationally generally acceptable accounting
principles agreed with the Bank. The consultant will also prepare the accompanying guidelines for the
software operations and will check whether computerized guidelines match with the manual of budgetary
financial and accounting procedures. The manual will be agreed to by IDA. The consultant will be
responsible for the initial training of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient
operation of the computerized accounting system. They will also be responsible for the preparation of a
training program in financial management with an implementation timetable and will provide the project
with assistance. The selection of the accounting software will ensure that the system is supported by a
reliable organization.
The CCN and CCR will maintain their accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards,
and the quality of financial management has been verified by auditors during the first phase of the
project. CCN and the Ministry of Finance and Economy will keep all documentation related to project
expenditures, and will all at times keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices
to reflect its operations and financial position. These records would be made available to Bank missions
and independent auditors. The accounts of the CCN and CCRs would be audited on an annual basis.
Financial Monitoring Reports. The CCN's responsibilities for preparation of Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) are explained in the PIM. The administrative and financial management specialist will
be responsible for preparing the FMRs, while the Coordinator of the CCN will be responsible for
ensuring that they are provided to stakeholders and IDA on a quarterly timely basis. FMRs will provide
infornation that establish (i) whether funds disbursed to projects are being used for the purpose intended;
(ii) whether project implementation is on track; and (iii) that budgeted costs will not be exceeded.
Financial information will be linked explicitly with the physical progress and procurement of the project.
The annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and will include (i) discussion of project progress, (ii) sources and uses of funds
statement, (iii) uses of funds by expenditure type (iv) the output monitoring report, and (v) the
procurement report. The audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year. The computerized accounting system will be customized to generate the
FMRs required in the forms as indicated in "Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed
Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers". A statement showing cash receipts by sources and expenditures by
main classification, beginning and ending cash balances of the project, and supporting schedules
comparing actual and planned expenditures. Adequate financial management arrangements, including the
ability to produce a timely FMR, will be in place by credit effectiveness.
-22 -



Auditing. Project records and accounts will be audited in accordance with international audit standards
by an experienced and internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports will be
submitted to IDA within six months after the end of Government fiscal year. In addition to their standard
short-form report with opinion on the annual financial statements, the auditors will be required to: (i)
carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the internal control procedures governing
their preparation for the relevant period under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii)
review the management and utilization of the special account and the project account and express a
separate opinion thereon on each of them as well; (iii) the auditor will complete their in-depth review,
started at interim, of the internal control system of the project with a view to identify the major
weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for improvement. Regarding the
matching grants (LIF), the audit firm will review the performance of random beneficiaries, and provide a
specific opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency of the lending and distribution procedures. The
results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit
report.
The auditors will review and audit the use of the PPF and PHRD and GEF PDF B Grant funds covering
the period prior to effectiveness. They will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to
review the internal control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect
within one month from the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports
will be addressed by management without delay before the final audit (mostly 6 months after closing of
the fiscal year). The contracting of auditors on a renewable multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and
certification by the financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of
credit effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
PPODR II: Government originally made a formal request to the World Bank for a second phase of the
Small Rural Operations Project (PPODR), which had closed in December 1998. This proposal was not
accepted by the Bank. While PPODR has a reputation (in OED documentation and in Niger) for positive
impacts on the ground (i.e. building capacity, decentralizing financial operations, and promoting new
technologies), it was highly expensive in terms of administrative costs and insufficiently multi-sectoral.
In addition, it mainly dealt with individuals rather than communities, and as such was not explicitly
supportive of decentralization or community priorities. Nevertheless, there are several lesson, that arise
from the experience of PPODR, on which the design of the CAP is based (see section D.3).
PGRN II: IDA also financed the very successful Natural Resources Management project (PGRN), which
closed in September 2002. The design of the CAP is based on much of the experience of PGRN and other
community-based NRM projects in the region in their reliance on CBOs to appraise and implement
micro-projects. PGRN has a solid record of success in Niger in this respect by demonstrating that
communities have substantial capacity for local development. The basic differences between PGRN and
the CAP are three-fold. First, the CAP is explicitly multi-sectoral (although PGRN's activities had
evolved outside of NRM to include literacy classes and cereal banks). Second, the CAP proposes support
to local governance. Third, the CAP aims at national coverage over a longer time horizon. In an attempt
to make the transition from PGRN to the CAP as operationally seamless as possible, the latter will work
with most PGRN communities and build on the capacity built during PGRN implementation.
- 23 -



Sub-sector national projects: Micro-projects could be accomplished within the context of sectoral
programs which might achieve implementation efficiency in terms of economies of scale. However, such
approaches are often supply-driven and do not foster ownership locally, since communities' priorities are
ignored if they lie outside the domain of the program. Moreover, these efforts tend to bypass local
authorities and thus do not help promote efficient and accountable local governance. The CAP's
multi-sectoral approach will continue to require close coordination with ongoing and planned sectoral
programs (such as in education, HIV/AIDS, infrastructure, and urban development).
An Integrated Rural Development Project: IRDPs were common twenty years ago, and shared several
features of the current CDD approach -- they were integrated, multi-sectoral, and often successful in
coordinating field operations among the various agencies providing services to rural communities.
However, they failed to incorporate active participation of beneficiaries in design and implementation,
were not linked to national institutions or local governments, and were often based on expatriate
technical assistance. This "enclave approach" eventually meant that IRDPs were not institutionally
sustainable. The CAP proposes to maintain the integrated approach, but link this to community
participation, capacity-building, and local governance.
A centrally-based program: Another traditional approach is to have responsibility for micro-project
implementation at the center. Niamey, however, is too far removed from most communities to be able to
hear their priorities, tailor interventions accordingly, and respond effectively. The centralized approach
therefore ends up being supply-driven and failing to secure generate community ownership. The CAP
proposes a small central coordinating unit (the CCN) with eight decentralized units (the CCRs) who will
provide the main coordinating functions and approval powers for micro-projects.
A Social Fund: There is currently no major social fund in Niger, but this option was rejected. The CAP
will resemble a traditional social fund in many ways, with two important differences. First, it will not be
limited to social infrastructure investment. Second, it will focus explicitly on local government support,
rather than relying exclusively on a parallel administrative and financial structure. The new generation of
social funds in the Bank is now converging on this model, thus blurring the distinction between the social
fund and CDD approach.
A "rural" or "urban" program: The original conception of this project was a community-based rural
program. The problems of rural communities are qualitatively and quantitatively different from those of
urban inhabitants. The rural poor, for example, are more numerous and are much more likely to be
malnourished, to die as children, to be without health care, to be uneducated, etc. However, a large and
growing number of urban poor suffer from lack of access to economic and social services, and growth
rates are such that the rural-urban populations will equalize in a generation or so. The proposed CAP,
therefore, will cover both communes rurales and communes urbaines in all phases of the APL. The
program will have to come to grips with important institutional and social differences between these two
groups. For example, the social fragmentation that can be characteristic of city life may provide barriers
(or perhaps opportunities) for organizing communities. The presence of the IDA-funded Urban project
and its planned second phase will require the CAP national and regional coordination Teams to regularly
reconcile the divisions of labour that define the complementary geographic and financing mandates of the
respective programs, as the implementation of the CAP proceeds in all 8 regions and the capital of
Niamey.
Local governance vs. community empowerment: As noted earlier, Niger has yet to articulate the way
it intends to achieve its vision for decentralization, despite progress with the legal framework and
positive intentions expressed in the PRSP. A central debate within the project team during preparation
concerned the degree of emphasis the CAP should place on decentralization, particularly
- 24 -



inter-governmental fiscal transfers. This choice will ultimately rest on progress in political
decentralization, a process largely exogenous to the CAP. The conclusion of a Quality Enhancement
Review on the project suggested that this lack of clarity requires striking a clear balance between
fill-fledged decentralization on one hand, and the more modest goal of increased local capacity for
decentralized planning on the other. There was consensus that the focus for the program in first phase
would be closer to the latter, i.e. emphasizing conmmunity empowerment and local governance for
sustainable service delivery. Larger issues of the public sector reform agenda need to be tackled in the
CAS and PRSP, but not necessarily in this project. This suggestion does not imply that the CAP should
abandon policy and institutional reforms related to decentralization. On the contrary, the CAP component
"local governance support" will provide technical assistance and commission studies on these subjects to
prepare the ground for deeper reforms in the course of the APL.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
!mplementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Natural resource management      Natural Resource Management     HS            HS
Project (PGRN). Cr. 1967 -
closed
Agriculture, Infrastructure      Small Rural Operations Project   .S            S
(PPODR) Cr. 1890 - closed
Agricultural Research            National Agricultural Research   S            U
Project Cr. 2122 - closed
Agricultural Extension           Agricultural Services Project    S            U
(PRSAA) Cr. 2355 - closed
Agriculture, Irrigation          Pilot Private Irrigation Project  S            S
(PPIP) Cr. 2707 - closed
Agriculture, Marketing           Agro-pastoral Export             U             S
Promotion Project (PPEAP) Cr.
3363- active
Education                        Education III Cr. 1980 - closed  S             S
Health                           Health II Cr. 1999 - closed      S             S
Transport                        Transport Infrastructure         S            U
Rehabilitation Cr. 35608 -
active
Urban development                 Urban Infrastructure             S            S
Rehabilitation Cr. 49691 -
active
Water                             Water Sector Project Cr. 3505 -  S            S
active
HIV/AIDS                          HIV/AIDS project -
negotiations                _
Other development agencies
AFD                              Projet de Developpment Local
de Torodi (PDLT)
- 25 -



SNV                              Participation Project for the
Reinforcement of Institutions
for Agricultural Development
(PRIVAT); Integrated Rural
Development Project (PDIPP)
FAO                              Projet Developpment rural de
Mayahi (PDRM)
UNDP/UNCDF                       Programme Cadre National de
Lutte Contre la Pauvrete
(PCLCP); Le Projet d'Appui au
Developpement Local (PADL)
de Mayahi et Nguigmi
GTZ                              Le Programme Agro-Sylvo-
Pastoral (PASP)
EU                               Le Programme de Cooperation
Decentralisee (PCD)
Switzerland                      Le Programme de
Developpement Local de
Maradi (PDLM)
FAO/Italy                        Le Programme de
Developpement Rural Ader
Doutchi Maggia-Keita
(PDR/ADM)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Notes:
* Information for "other development agencies" is but a partial list of relevant projects. A survey of 87
community-based projects in Niger, including those above, appears in the CAP preparation document
entitled "Enjeux du Developpement Communautaire".
* Major GEF-related projects funded by the Bank and other donors appear in Annex 11.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In this section, lessons from other projects, particularly in the rural development, are reviewed. These
lessons are taken in large part from Implementation Completion Reports and supervision reports.
Performance of most projects in Niger, ranged from highly unsatisfactory to highly satisfactory, but all
have produced valuable lessons to consider in planning future work in Niger. In addition, lessons from
the pilot operations, which constituted the major activity during the CAP's preparation period, are
reviewed in this section.
Lessons from projects:
* Sustainability of operations is hindered by the project mentality of many government officials and
communities, whereby each project is expected to be followed by another.
* Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private entrepreneurial
development and participatory grassroots income-generating initiatives, it is generally less effective
than a private self-interested association of the beneficiaries. Until recently, Government has lacked
a clear framework, action plan, or time path for decentralizing services or getting beneficiaries to
take charge of activities. As a result while the government's long-term objective is desengagement,
this is not yet reflected either in the structure or the function of the administrative services with
respect to communities.
- 26 -



* Institution building takes time. Capacity built as the result of a project may not become evident for
ten to fifteen years. Operations designed to develop local capacity and a participatory culture require
a longer learning curve and therefore long-term commitment before development impacts are evident.
* Monitoring and evaluation systems have been poor or nonexistent. It is essential to define and
phase program objectives by stating clearly at appraisal the short, medium, and long-term objectives
and related performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and be allocated timely
and adequate resources for operation and training.
* Decentralized financial management at the local community level is key to successful
implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and to the promotion of a culture of
financial discipline in managing community funds. PGRN, for example, has demonstrated that
communities are successful in procurement and decentralized financial management. Training in
farm management skills such as entrepreneurship and risk management promotes financial
sustainability. Simplified operating procedures, legal protection, and clarity with respect to benefits
of the established financial mechanisms are central to establishing ownership and credibility of such
mechanisms. Provided with basic training, communities are quite capable of carrying out their own
procurement, and in ensuring that services providers are accountable to them.
* Even when community-development funds are earmarked for specific purposes (i.e. PPODR and
PGRNs' focus on economic activities and natural resources management, respectively), communities
nevertheless first request those investments that meet their priority basic needs. Once these basic
needs are fulfilled, longer term interests such as the maintenance of the natural resources come into
view. Also, in this context, the management of cultivated areas tend to receive earlier and more
attention than the natural rangelands and water resources. A complementary lesson from grant
assisted environmental programs confirms that while communities are fully aware that their priority
basic needs depend on the status of their natural resources (food, shelter, medicinal plants,) they
often lack the technical, financial and capacity to address these rather complex needs adequately (i.e.
to distinquish the need for conservation vs. sustainable use of resources, and to distinquish the
relevant strategic short-term and long-term activities). Therefore they often opt for "easier" needs
(like schools, health center etc.) when funds become available.
* Decentralized management of natural resources and conservation of biodiversity must be
entrusted to the communities if practical results are to be achieved. Communities are prepared to
actively protect natural resources if and when they are recognized with having ownership of these
resources and are empowered to do so. As provided for in the Rural Code, this means that there must
be some official measure taken by the govermment to relinquish at least part of its formal authority
over the use and management of these resources. When empowered, the local populations usually
have a rather clear notion of what is to be done to effectively protect the resources if not to manage
them in a truly sustainable way.
* The role of stakeholders in the conservation of biodiversity and the management of natural
resources must be clarified from the start. Partnership between the stakeholders is necessary since
expertise and human resources are scarce and must be used efficiently. These partnerships must be
spelled out early and clearly. The role of government is essential, but must be limited to the
"regalian" tasks (defining policies, overseeing their implementation, and enforcing the laws and
regulations), which can not be delegated. All other tasks (conservation of biodiversity, management
of natural resources) seem to be much better implemented by other stakeholders, whether local
communities, NGOs or commercial operators, with technical support from various sources (including
if necessary technical specialists from the government, or scientists from universities).
- 27 -



*    Existing and known technologies in biodiversity conservation and natural resources
management are effective, and there is not much need for research in new technologies. The PGRN
has already demonstrated, for example, the effectiveness in using zai and demi-lune techniques in
arresting land degradation. What is needed is the thorough implementation of proven existing
techniques. People need to be trained often and motivated continuously. The best motivation is
ownership of the benefits of the action taken, which doesn't necessarily entail a financial cost.
Based on these lessons, the approach of the CAP will (a) be long-term, (b) cover multiple sectors, (c)
ensure active participation of all population groups of the communities, (d) rely on decentralized
financial management, (e) place strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, (f) provide financial
mechanisms to satisfy the basic needs while actively promoting activities that will ensure long-term
viability of ecosystems and natural resources; and (g) propose concrete steps for transferring the role of
central government to local government or the private sector in local service provision.
Lessons from pilot activities:
Pilot activities were an important part of the preparation process because they helped provide lessons on
which to design the implementation phase. In addition, they served to forge institutional linkages with
NGOs and donors who are expected to play a key role in facilitating and collaborating with the CAP by
providing animation and capacity-building to cornmunities.
Eight "operators" managed the pilot activities over an eighteen-month period. There are three
international NGOs (CARE Niger, CECI, AFVP); two local NGOs (Karkara, ABC-Ecologie); and three
donors: the African Development Foundation, the United National Capital Development Fund, and the
European Union. The donors' activities involved ongoing or incremental activities financed
independently of CAP funds, in close collaboration with the CAP. The NGOs were financed with CAP
resources, and chosen by single source selection on the grounds that they were already carrying out
multi-sectoral and demand-driven community-based work consistent with the principles of CAP. Rather
than providing each operator with a standard operational manual, they were encouraged to continue with
their own business practices. A faciliatator was hired to help transfer of information and experience
across the pilots and to the project preparation unit and World Bank. The facilitator conducted nine
supervision missions and convened four workshops to share experiences and plan next steps. These
mission reports and conclusions from the workshops of this highly satisfactory preparatory phase, are
available upon request.
ReRion     .  .Localiiy ;Rualjuraiba   -Operator    .             Priorityneeds
social infrastructure, income-generating
Agade.~~   vajious        rural       European Union  atvte
.  ,, .- ,.,                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~activities
iosso . pg'   Loga           rural          CECI        cereal banks, health post
D ififi~ t' ^  Nguigmi       n lal         UNCDF        social infrastructure, income-generating
activities
t..  'q'.  ',rS  -  onle, Serkin
Yamma,            rural          CARE        mid-wife training, small ruminants, literaCy,
: . *  :1 ;  Souloulou                      grain mill, HIV/AIDS
African
Nl,     ',e ' Commune Ill    urban         Development   school fence, health post, cereal bank
Foundation
g Tahltoua '   Bouza          rural          AFVP        wells, mid-wife training, soil erosion, grain mill,
literacy, HIV/AIDS
Tillabery    Siniri, Bann6    rural        ABC-Ecologie   cereal banks, income-generating activities
nder          Mirriah      pezi-urban .                  wells, health post, classroom, cereal bank,
._______________  income-generating activities
-28 -



Although based on a small sample, the choice of micro-projects by the communities working with the
assistance of the eight operators in the different departments and agro-ecological zones of Niger in the
pilot phase, reveals several interesting issues. First, that food security and income-generation are
priorities. Second, that women's priorities (such as mid-wife training) will be expressed if participatory
processes are respected. Third, that rather than spending a large amount on one or two micro-projects, a
range of smaller projects is preferred. The following is a summary of the lessons learned and conclusions
generated from the pilot phase, as articulated by the operators themselves during workshops:
* Defining area of intervention: The project should work within the administrative boundaries and the
now geographically and administratively defined decentralized entities. At a lower level, the "
grappes de villages" (village groupings) are an effective target unit for the LIF, although definition of
this group requires careful research on social cohesion and presence of local level institutions. The
participatory appraisal process may begin, however, even lower - at the village or (urban)
neighborhood level.
* Community Development Agents: There must be a clear definition of labour between communities
and their facilitators. In addition to inclusive participatory processes, including the specific
recognition of the role of local indigenous institutions, teams must be trained in natural resource
management, gender issues, and HIV/AIDS. Women and representatives of other marginalised
population groups must be adequately and actively represented in such teams. In general, one
Community Development Agent (ADC) is adequate for three to five villages
*   Partnerships: A local institutional framework must be in place with systematic and transparent
relationships between operators, the project, and local administration (or government), particularly
with respect to public services. Contracts with service providers must be harnonized and the rules of
engagement clarified to all.
* Program outreach: Each operator should formulate a communication plan, using a variety of media
and in local languages. IEC would continue throughout the micro-project cycle, using local human
resources to assist in village animation and other tasks.
* Participatory appraisal: The program should define a common approach to be adopted by all
operators, which would require adopting a minimum set of rules while allowing flexibility to local
conditions. The process must take into account in particular the needs of rnarginalized groups, the
existing capacity of local indigenous communal institutions, and must reinforce local capacity to take
charge of this process in future.
*   Local development planning: Prioritization of micro-projects requires a clear and transparent criteria
for doing so. The approach is to consider all the problems faced by communities, with the objective
of achieving an integrated local development/ ecosystem plan with temporal and spatial dimensions
and estimated budgets. Approval of micro-projects and the local development plan must made within
a structure of community-based decision-making. Wherever possible, mayors or sous-prefets must be
part of the process.
* Voice of women: As provided for under the recently approved Act, a minimum 25% quota for the
participation of women is now required in all community fora (except those for which elections are
held). This is particularly important in posts that involve decision-making, not merely consultation,
and training
* Capacity-building: The program must strive to obtain legal recognition of community structures, on
the base of legal texts on local governance. Program rules, procedures, and reports should be made
available at all levels, and the program should finance exchanges among communities. M&E is a
function that can be done loca lly, and local groups may be trained to do so.
-29 -



*   GEF-supported activities: The methods used by the project preparation team and the NGO operators
to facilitate the preparation and execution of integrated local development/ ecosystem plans in the
initial six pilot sites apparently did not sufficiently clarify the priority of the explicit linkages
between poverty and the conditions of the communities' ecosystems as a whole. A concerted effort
on technical assistance is therefore required within the CCN and CCR teams, together with specific
training for the executing NGOs.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
As mentioned earlier, Government had originally requested a second phase of the Small Operations
Project (PPODR) described above. A September 1999 identification mission argued for an alternative
that was less costly, multi-sectoral, and explicitly supportive of decentralization. Government, at a
meeting with several agencies represented, expressed approval for a decentralized project that encourages
communities to define their own development priorities. As a result of the meeting, a multi-sectoral
steering committee was created from eight ministries to proceed with project preparation. The steering
committee oversees a working group from central ministries, NGOs, and related donor-funded initiatives,
and has demonstrated strong ownership over project preparation.
Another positive indication of borrower commitment concerns decentralization policy. As indicated in
section B.2, government has made significant steps forward with respect to the legal and institutional
framework on decentralization, although this needs to be operationalized. In terms of political
decentralization, this effort was set back with the annulment of the March 1999 local elections. However,
as noted above, the necessary administrative and data collecting steps are being taken, and it is expected
that local elections will take place during the first phase of the PAC Program, as the political cornerstone
for the implementation of the fiscal and administrative steps of decentralisation.
A third indication of borrower commitment stems from the PRSP. Government is now committed to a
poverty reduction strategy that centers on gender-responsive rural development, health, and education. In
a September 2000 CAP workshop, Government recognized the CAP's poverty targeting and
multi-sectoral application as an important instrument for operationalizing the PRSP.
The Government of Niger's formal and complementary commitment to the implementation of global
environmental strategies is evidenced by its adoption of the related National Environmental Plan for
Sustainable Development. In terms of the specific GEF financing, Government has formally expressed its
commitment to the project through the endorsement letter signed by the GEF focal point in September
2001. The Ministry of Agricultural Development is committed to building on the legacy of PGRN, and
expressed during negotiations for this project their support to integrated ecosystem management.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Dialogue on poverty reduction policy: With support to the PRSP, IDA is well positioned to push forward
discussion on how to coordinate and strengthen Government's commitment to poverty reduction.
However, this will have to involve all other major development partners.
Scaling up CDD efforts: IDA is committed to Niger in the long term and has the ability to mobilize
sufficient funding to undertake such an ambitious national program. With the wide range and large scale
of many of its operations, IDA is well positioned to link the CAP goals with the national decentralisation
reforms and financing mechanisms required to support them.
International experience: IDA brings international experience in the areas of social funds,
decentralization, and demand-driven rural investment funds. Aside from experience in Niger listed above,
- 30 -



IDA now has many similar operations ongoing in the region, and the CAP may draw from the positive
and negative lessons of this experience. Examples include the Village Communities Support Program in
Guinea, the Borgou pilot in Benin, the Community-based Rural Development in Burkina Faso, and a
variety of social funds in the region. In addition, the growing focus and debate in the Bank on
community-driven development (CDD) will help to consolidate lessons and experience which the CAP
can use to its advantage.
Sectoral experience: IDA has projects in every sector, which can contribute technical solutions and
facilitate institutional linkages with line ministries. The CAP will benefit from two "parent" projects. The
PPODR demonstrated many positive lessons with respect to decentralized financial management and
income-generating micro-projects. The CAP can also build on success of the PGRN in community-based
provision of public goods, which is particularly relevant for the activities relating to the support to
CBIEM.
Complementing on-going GEF support: Other projects involving global environmental management in
Niger tend to focus on specific focal areas of interest such as biodiversity, condition of international
waters, or global warming mitigation or are restricted to certain geographic areas such as nature reserves
or specific ecosystems. The nation-wide CAP, classified as a so-called multiple focal area project, will
therefore be complementary to other projects. Furthermore, through its close coordination with the Africa
Land and Water Initiative, the best practices and lessons learned from this project will have an impact on
the natural resource management in Africa as a whole.
Limitations of Bank support: While recognizing our comparative advantage, it is equally important to
acknowledge that the Bank is relatively weak in several areas, particularly concerning on-the-ground
experience in community-driven approaches in Niger and working with NGOs. In this respect, it will be
vitally important for the CAP to collaborate with development partners who possess diverse strengths and
considerable operational experience. These include the Agence Fran aise de Developpement (AFD), the
United National Capital Development Fund (UTNCDF), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), and German Cooperation (KfW and GTZ), to name a few. In addition to donors,
there are a large and growing number of NGOs who have considerable experience, such as CARE Niger,
the Canadian Centre for International Studies (CECI) and many national NGOs.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
Cost-benefit analysis: This type of project does not easily lend itself to economic evaluation for various
reasons. First, benefits of the capacity-building components (support to communities and local
governance) cannot easily be quantified in monetary terms. Second, the investment component cannot be
known ex ante, since it is demand-driven and defined in the course of the project. Third, many of the
benefits from anticipated investments (such as in natural resource management, education, health, etc.)
similarly defy quantification. However, cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for a sample of
income-generating activities that will likely be among community priorities, all of which indicated strong
potential for economic and financial returns. This analysis is summarized in Annex 4.
- 31 -



Incremental Cost Analysis: With respect to value added of GEF financing for CBIEM in the CAP, an
Incremental Cost Analysis is provided in Annex 11, which highlights the difference between scenarios
with and without GEF financing.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost-benefit analysis: As described above, financial rates of returns for income-generating activities are
calculated in Annex 4.
Fiscal mechanisms: The Local Investment Fund is a system of matching grants. During each financing
round, each community committee will receive a budgetary envelope which is expected to provide
financing for micro-projects. Communities will be expected to contribute 5, 10, or 20 percent of the total
cost of proposed micro-projects in money, time, labor, or materials, the proportion being dependent on
the type of micro-project. This percentage must be high enough to ensure that the micro-project is truly
desired, yet low enough to keep within the means of a poor population. Over time, as incomes rise, this
percentage would increase. The goal of the project in the short to medium term is not fiscal
sustainability. This, however, is a long term goal, and one that will only be attained when incomes rise
and local governments are able to generate and manage revenues. The fiscal goal of the first phase of the
CAP, therefore, is to make efficient transfers to poor communities and to ensure that this is spent
effectively and transparently.
Methodology for financial analysis: The impact of micro-projects will be carefully measured, with a
focus on cost-minimization measures and on additional funding requirements (maintenance costs) to
ensure that the benefits of the investment are sustained. Stakeholders will be involved in determining and
fine-tuning the cost-sharing and cost-recovery arrangements.
Fiscal Impact:
The combined support to decentralization and participation is expected to increase the efficiency of
public investment expenditures. Seen over the long term, economic benefits will offset costs to the
Government budget in providing a given amount of transfers to the local level. Subsequent phases of the
CAP will focus on local revenue generation. In addition, given that the IDA and GEF support to the CAP
is in the form of grants, the fiscal impact will be minimized.
3. Technical:
The CAP will promote the use of simple, appropriate, and environmentally sound technologies, that
correspond to the needs of the beneficiaries and capabilities of local service providers. Labour-intensive
works will be favored if demonstrated to be technically and economically efficient, so that employment is
generated. It is expected that there is substantial latent technical capacity at the village level, which has
not surfaced for want of effective demand. Most of the micro-projects would involve simple
infrastructures, for which local artisans and entrepreneurs could be employed.
The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will be supported by a technical assessment of the
components that will be carried out. This will require coming to a clear understanding of the technical
norms and standards for micro-project section and implementation. Technical criteria and standards will
be incorporated into the PIM. Line ministries, such as health, education, and roads, will need to be
involved closely with this exercise, and protocols will need to be developed to formally establish this
collaboration.
- 32 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The following summarizes the role of each of the actors in the CAP. See Figure 1 in Annex 12 for the
global institutional structure of the project.
Communities: The principal actors in the CAP are communities, which essentially constitute the CAP's
decentralized executing agencies for micro-projects. Such execution is based on the following principles:
a process of participatory planning at the local level; the opportunity for communities to select their own
facilitator for this planning. Access to the matching grants requires three steps: (i) the definition of
communities as socially cohesive groups with which the project can liaise; (ii) the elaboration and
execution of a integrated local development plan; and (iii) micro-projects that are locally identified
become the responsibility of the local communities, which manage implementation, including
procurement of goods, services, and works. Communities will hire service providers capable of carrying
out these actions under competitive conditions, and will evaluate bids and award contracts following a
transparent process in which all stages and results are publically presented. Technical supervision and
monitoring of the micro-project implementation may be shared between the communities and
deconcentrated sectoral services.
State services: Central and local technical services of the State and local authorities of the communes will
play an important role in the CAP. The functions of the State services are as follows: (i) validation of
annual LDPs from communities in recognition that the plans conform with the development agenda of
the commune and region;an oversight function to verify conformity of different investments with rules
and legal texts; (ii) a role for participation in the approval for micro-project financing, (iii) a supervisory
role to verify whether micro-projects are in accordance with rules and regulations, and (iv) assistance to
communities, as necessary, during the implementation of micro-projects. The validation of the LDPs will
be undertaken by an Approval Committee at the commune level, coordinated by a regional project
coordination unit (CCR see below), which will not intervene in the approval process.
The Project Approval Committee for micro-projects corresponding to the current arrondissements will be
established for the purpose of reviewing and approving LDPs, and will be composed of representatives of
the sectoral ministries, local governments, and local NGOs. In component 2, the local commune
authorities will benefit initially from intensive capacity building in administrative and fiscal
management, to ensure that they work more effectively with their constituents, and to enable them to
eventually "graduate" and assume their role of managing the decentralized fiscal and administrative
responsibilities performed by the program.
Regional Coordination Units (Cellules de Coordination Regionales, CCRs): The CCN will be
decentralized to all regions, where the bulk of project activities will take place. The CCRs shall be
responsible, under the guidance of the CCN, for the day-to-day administration, coordination,
environmental management, financial management, procurement, and monitoring of project activities in
their respective regions. Each CCR will consist of the following staff with terms of reference,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) a Regional Coordinator; (ii) an
accountant; (iii) a program planning specialist; (iv) a monitoring and evaluation specialist; (v) a local
govemance specialist (only for Zinder, Tahoua, and Nianiey). Their expertise, qualifications and
experience should be satisfactory to IDA.
- 33 -



The Central Coordination Unit (Cellule de Coordination Nationale, CCN): The CAP will be coordinated
by a national unit (CCN) under the tutelage of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The function of the
CCN is (i) to coordinate the project interventions, consolidate work programs for each component and
the associated budgets; (ii) to implement the local government support component conceming policy and
institutional reforms; (iii) financial management and accounting of the project in the global sense; (iv)
consolidation of information coming from the regional coordination units (CCRs); (v) transmission of
documents to the various donors; (vi) drafting and transmission of technical, financial, and M&E reports;
(vii) monitoring of procurement and disbursement procedures of the World Bank; and (viii) to the
secretariat for the Steering Committee (CP). The CCN shall consist of the following staff with terms of
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) a National Coordinator; (ii) an
administrative and financial management specialist; (iii) an accountant; (iv) a procurement specialist; (v)
an intemal auditor; (vi) an environmental specialist; (vii) a communications and capacity building
specialist; (viii) a govemance specialist; and (ix) a monitoring and evaluation specialist. Again, the
selection of these staff must be acceptable to IDA.
Steering Committee: The CAP's steering committee (Comite de Pilotage, CP) is the guiding institution of
the project. It gives the mandate to the CCN to establish and animate a network of partners concerned
with local development in Niger. It will comprise the different ministries involved in the project, and will
be established prior to project effectiveness. Its composition will be established by arrete. The CP will
meet normally twice annually plus one meeting expanded to include donors. The CP will be responsible
for (i) carrying out of annual reviews of proposals, work plans and budgets prepared by the CCN and
ensuring their consistency with the project; (ii) reviewing the progress made towards achieving the
project's objectives; (iii) facilitating the coordination of Project activities among the entities represented
in the CP, and making recommendations for removal of any obstacles to the implementation of the
Project; and (iv) providing cornments on reports and reviews prepared by the CCN for the benefit of the
Bank.
4.2 Project management:
Niger's institutional environment presents several challenges for the management of the CAP. First and
foremost is the issue of managerial and technical capacity, which is limited, particularly in rural areas.
Second, is the fact that Niger's civil servants often experience delay in the payment of their salaries, and
there are few rewards to good performance, making it difficult to work with those debilitated and
demoralized by a poor incentive system. Third, local administrations have traditionally not been closely
accountable to their constituencies, and may thus not be willing or able to effectively work in a
participatory fashion with communities. Fourth, Niger has always been highly centralized and, in the
wake of future local elections, the central govermment must be ready and willing to delegate authority
over these local governments. Despite these problems, other projects, such as the PGRN, have
demonstrated that effective project management with community-based approaches are possible. To do
so, the CAP program will therefore need to expend considerable resources on capacity-building,
especially in the first phase. Given the above institutional weakness, the CAP must capitalize on the
strengths of development partners. Supported by the necessary technical expertise in the CCN and CCRs,
the CAP will rely substantially on NGOs to facilitate integrated local development/ecosystem planning.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Details on procurement issues appear in Annex 6.
- 34 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management issues of capacity assessment, accounting and financial reporting, project
management reporting, and auditing were described in Section D.4. Figure 3 of Annex 14 describes the
flow of funds from the World Bank in Washington to communities in Niger.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Two consultants, recommended by the Africa Region's safeguards unit (ASPEN), were hired to undertake
the environmental assessment (EA) and the environmental management plan (EMP). Terms of reference
were approved by ASPEN. Work began in November 2001 and a preliminary draft was submitted and
reviewed by ASPEN on January 4, 2002. The draft was also reviewed at a validation workshop in Niger,
which was attended by Bureau d'Evaluation Environnementale et des Etudes dI'mpact (BEEEI) of the
Ministry of Water Resources, Environment, and Desertification, together with the CAP's preparation
unit. The consultant then reacted jointly to comments of BEEEI and ASPEN, which were forwarded to
the latter on March 11, 2002. The revised EA/EMP was disclosed in-country on April 16, 2002.
The EA contained the following: (i) an analysis of the key environmental problems of the country, and
the institutional, administrative, and regulatory framework for environmental management, in particular,
for environmental impact assessment; (ii) a description of the key factors that may have an adverse
impact of the environment, based on a tentative list of activities likely to be financed under the project;
(iii) a proposal for mitigation strategies; and (iv) a discussion of the main activities that form the EMP.
Because the scope of micro-projects available to comnmunities via the LIF is quite open, it was impossible
to predict project outputs with precision. The EA therefore proceeded by identifying and classifying a
wide range of possible micro-projects based on other projects in Niger, and through a consultation
process with CAP pilot communities. Based on this list, the EA described the nature and significance of
the potential socio-economic and environmental impacts, considering the nature, the intensity, the
duration, and extent of disturbances caused by micro-projects. The types of micro-projects which are
likely to impact on the existing environment include, but are not limited to, the following: rehabilitation
of rural roads, fishery management, forestry, buildings, water drilling, potable water supply, hygiene and
sanitation infrastructure.
Given the importance of environmental concerns in the CAP as related to CBIEM, the EA concluded that
the project is expected to have a significant and globally positive impact on the environment. However,
the project would have to be vigilant against the possibility of negative repercussions on the natural
environment in terms of hazards, pollution, and water borne diseases.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan has been specified in the consultant's report. The main
recommendations of the EMP are the following:
*   Systematization of environmental impact assessment for all identified micro-projects before entering
into a funding agreement with communities.
*   Training of staff and partners of the national and regional coordination units.
*   Establishment and implementation of an intersectoral consultation frarnework for the environmental
control and monitoring;
*   Reinforcement of coordination meetings of harmonization and consultation at all levels among
- 35 -



stakeholders;
*   Concerted efforts of NGOs and mass-media for the execution of an Information- Education-
Communication program aimed at improving environmental management in the CAP.
The institutional arrangement for the EMP involves specialized units which are integrated into the CAP's
national and regional coordination structure. These units are involved in environmental screening of
proposed micro-projects. Technical capacity to implement the EMP is a major concem, since the
implementation decree for the EA law is only one year old, and the BEEEI (national bureau for
environmental impact assessment) has limited experience. For this reason, the EMP proposes
considerable resources and efforts to upgrade the capacity in this area. A well-designed EA training
module and handbook will be delivered based on a detailed review of training needs from project
administrators, NGOs, line ministries, and local consultants hired by the CAP.
Micro-projects which are determined a priori to have potential negative environmental impacts will be
subject to a systematic review at the planning stage to predict the nature and magnitude of these impacts.
The EMP has prepared a set of guidelines to assist in this screening. The investment phase of the
micro-project cycle will be begin only after the EA has been completed and when, if necessary, requisite
environmental mitigation measures are indicated and costed. The scope and cost of the EA will
correspond to the scope and cost of the micro-project being considered. When micro-projects are
implemented, the mitigation measures will also be implemented to reduce or eliminate adverse impacts.
These may include, but are not limited to, relocating the project, modifying the design, or undertaking
prescribed investments for environmental rehabilitation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA included community and donor consultation in the process of identifying and classifying a wide
range of possible micro-projects based on other projects in Niger, and through a consultation process
with CAP pilot communities.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The monitoring and evaluation system will be built into the CAP's management information system. As
such, it will be decentralized to the regional level (CCR). It will consist of tools for assessing whether the
identified mitigation measures have been successfully implemented. These tools comprise the items to be
monitored, the methodology, and assignment of responsibility. To the extent feasible, local-level
environmental monitoring will be conducted by the community-based M&E committees (see Annex 2).
The system will be linked to the CAP's GIS data base to enable access to baseline data and changes in
these data at local, regional, and national levels.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social assessment was carried out during project preparation as part of the work on local level
institutions (LLIs). This study has shown the importance of recognizing locally anchored and
multi-sectoral participation when proceeding with decentralization, and has found that high-performing
LLIs are associated with more equitable income distribution and lower poverty.
- 36 -



There are two and perhaps three categories of local level or indigenous institutions currently operating in
Niger, that if systematically utilized, can significantly contribute to project effectiveness and long-term
sustainability for equitable growth and poverty reduction. The first is in the area of management of Local
Investment Funds. Rather than setting up an external, project related institution, there is the option to use
MMJa popular tontine (savings institution) found throughout the country (22,000 credit unions
established in villages throughout Niger). Still primarily women-led, but now with branches for all
groups, this indigenous institution offers the possibility of effective allocation and management of local
investment funds that is internalized at the community level, but effectively connected, over time, to local
govermment. The risks are apparent in terms of scaling-up, but the opportunities for long-term
sustainability and intemal effectiveness definitively outweigh the risks according the LLI analysis.
The second group of LLIs to be considered are those that can perform the finctions of monitoring and
evaluation. Youth organizations such as Samariai were organized to serve the community, motivate
effective community actions, and monitor effectiveness of such actions. They are found across the
country under different names. As such they could serve to intemalize project M&E functions at the local
level, but also allow use of M&E results at project and local govermment levels. It should be noted that
these groups include the very poor, but are looked upon by communities as energizers for collective
activity.
Finally, a number of indigenous institutions dedicated to natural resource and environmental
sustainability were identified. These organizations are usually ethnic specific and clearly aligned with
spiritual values of the community. These may be associated with the environmental safeguards
monitoring.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The participatory approach is a cornerstone of the implementation of the project. Poverty is a
multidimensional problem which differs from region to region, and from village to village. To be
effective, a poverty-reduction program must therefore respond to a multiplicity of needs. Articulating the
needs of a particular village will require a participatory approach within a demand-driven and
multi-sectoral strategy. The preparation of the CAP has also used such an approach to improve the quality
of the program's design and to promote ownership on the part of Nigeriens.
Stakeholders have been actively involved from early stages of preparation and this process will continue
during implementation. A significant proportion of the PHRD grant was earmarked for client
consultation. A stakeholders' forum was held in November 2000 with the aim of publicizing the project
concept and receiving input from Government, community leaders, donors, NGOs and civil society.
Several of the preparation missions included field visits to consult directly with communities. The study
of local level institutions was carried out to ensure the project design principles conform with the ways in
which communities are organized and collectively reach decisions. In addition, the community-based
M&E methodology was developed and tested directly in the field.
Another key stakeholder group is donors. As mentioned earlier, the United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF), the European Union, and the African Development Foundation were partners in the pilot
stage. The Agence Fran aise de Developpement has also expressed its interest in collaborating given that
they have been active for several years in community development in western Niger.
- 37 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The CAP has and will continue to rely heavily on the collaboration of NGOs, many of which have been
actively involved in community work and participatory appraisal for years. This relationship has been
established in the context of the pilot activities during preparation with very positive results, and will be
scaled up during implementation in the context of the network of agencies working in local development.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project's participatory approach will maximize the probability that local development priorities are
addressed, and that vulnerable groups are heard. The project's MIS system will track progress in
communities' welfare and capacity through a decentralized system of monitoring and evaluation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Performance indicators for this project are designed to measure increases in social capital, such as ability
of communities to carry out participatory appraisal, local development planning, and implementation of
micro-projects. Indeed, these measures of institutional capacity are central to indicating whether the
CAP's social development outcomes have been achieved.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
*,*7 :;' i --;:.....               .    . . Policy-2  - t Vrj -1  't'  4...........T ,ii ~-v  ,Tg eued * 1:;I
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 * Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                         -         Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 () Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes ( No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            ()Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (9 Yes P No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As described in section ES, the EA promotes mitigation strategies to ensure that the environmental
safeguard policies are respected. With respect to natural habitats, a positive natural habitat conservation
outcome is expected through the CAP due to the special efforts devoted to CBIEM under GEF financing.
- 38 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
First, institutional sustainability of the CAP will depend primarily on community ownership supported
by a complementary increased capacity and accountability of local commune authorities. While CAP
development plans will be implemented with technical and financial assistance from some external
sources, decisions on the content of plans would rest ultimately with communities who would be
responsible for managing implementation. Once communities acquire the knowledge, awareness, and
necessary skills to design and implement local development plans and micro-projects, sustainability of
institutional objectives will be assured, provided that financing is available.
Second, the fiscal sustainability will depend on whether revenues continue to flow through channels
established via the CAP. Financing for community development in Niger, for the foreseeable future, will
continue to rely on external sources, since the level of poverty is such that substantial local revenue
generation is impossible in the majority of communities. The CAP's financing flows are intended to
"prime the pump" of fiscal decentralization. The potential for cost recovery will be exploited in later
phase of the CAP to minimize dependence on intergovernmental transfers.
Third is the issue of environmental sustainability. GEF financing will be limited to the first and second
phases of the CAP. During this time, the program will endeavor to establish acceptance of the principles
of the approach to CBIEM in Niger, to establish a conducive policy and institutional framework, and to
undertake successful interventions in Nigerien communities. Incremental benefits from GEF financing
are described in section d of Annex 12. Based on this success, and the expected achievements of the
overall program to provide for the short-term needs and the development of income-generating activities,
increased ability of the communities to contribute to an investment in their natural resources base is
expected while other financiers would be expected to supplement any remaining requirements. As
indicated by the lessons learned from the PGRN, the fulfillment of the basic needs under the CAP will
allow the communities to continue their activities relating to natural resources management even during
severe periods of drought.
la. Replicability:
Replicability has been addressed earlier in the section on program phasing to achieve increasingly greater
geographic scope.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           -Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Local government representatives          H         Integrated LDP planning and financing is
(elected or otherwise) do not function in           contingent on accountable and transparent
a transparent manner                                practices; if not, program funding will stop at
those particular localities. To ensure the
success of the program NGO's and TA are to
accompany the communities and the pilot
commune authorities selected for phase 1 of the
program throughout the process.
Micro-projects are not completed nor      M         The program provides the possibility for a
successful in what they set out to                 range of sound support in both technical
- 39 -



accomplish.                                        (i.e.CBIEM,) and procedural (i.e.governance,)
domains, to accompany communities and local
authorities throughout the planning and
execution of their activities; the requirement
for timely monitoring and reporting by the
community-based micro-project managers and
by the program's regional coordination teams is
designed for early detection and resolution of
emerging difficulties.
Central government overrides authority    M         The rules of autonomy are clearly spelled out
of local decision-makers                           in the Grant agreement; Community-based and
Regional level M&E systems are also designed
to catch problems such as these at an early
stage.
From Components to Outputs
Beneficiaries are unwilling to use        N        The inclusive and participatory LDP process, is
facilities and services financed                   designed to ensure that the micro-projects,
by the Program                                     identified and selected by the communities
themselves, truly meet their priority integrated
development needs, thereby increasing the
likelihood of a strong demand for them.
Local integrated development plans and    M         The application of the procedures and
micro-project proposals received by the             practices, (identified in detail in the PIM),
Approval Committees and the CCRs are                which are based on successful experiences with
not reviewed nor responded to in a timely           comparable community-based development
manner                                              programs in the subregion, will not only ensure
timely review and disbursements, but provide
for constant improvements and adaptations to
regional and local constraints.
Unwillingness of communities and local    M         Strong communication campaign, regular
commune authorities to commit to                    awareness raising and information campaign;
project development and global                      exchange of information among various
development objectives and to engage in             communities, working closely with
participatory planning and collective               communities that show risk-aversity, to
investment                                          demonstrate the success of collective action in
integrated LDP's in other communities; these
are all measures designed to reinforce the
fundamentally important participatory LDP
process.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-40-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Authentic decentralization, i.e. devolution of the power of decision making and management of
financial resources for local area development to the respective communities and local authorities,
often presents a serious threat to the political status quo. It is a process that will create winners and
losers. In as much as the CAP promotes decentralization, it is bound to encounter resistance and
generate conflict.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions of Grant effectiveness require that the Government would have accomplished the following:
*   established the Project Steering Committee (CP);
*   established the National Coordination Unit (CCN) and staffed the NCU with the following
professionals experienced and competent who are satisfactory to IDA:
(i) the project coordinator,
(ii) the administrative and financial management specialist;
(iii) the monitoring and evaluation specialist;
* transferred the deposit into the Project Account;
*   established a financial management and accounting system for the Project satisfactory to the IDA;
*   the GEF Grant Agreement has been duly executed and ratified and fulfilled all conditions precedent
to its effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Selection of an auditor satisfactory to IDA before the end of the year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
g 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
- 41 -



project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Ji 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Ii 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
_ 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Daniel M. Sellen                Joseph Baa     moh               Antoinette M/Sayeh
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                  Country Director
- 42 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGER: Community Action Program
., .          ,  g        - aI~O~rbe P Mmuc,e.  'r13A  S2liIealn  rTUt,E3>2r
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable and equitable  o Per capita GDP          s National statistics
economic growth with poverty O Percentage of poor and  D Poverty studies
reduction.                  vulnerable population.   D Poverty surveys, maps
D UNDP Human Development
Reports
D PRSP Monitoring
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
Increased incomes,         National coverage of the CAP  D Project MIS          D Sufficient number
employment, access to basic  with respect to access to the  D Regional and sector statistics  communities benefiting from
infrastructure, food security,  FIL, and consequent %  DPoverty surveys          project to account for
and improved capacity to  increases in:              D Beneficiary assessments   significant national impact
manage financial and natural  D farm and non-farm incomes  Mid-term and final project  D Project maintains consistent
resources.                D individuals employed via   evaluations               and tangible progress toward
micro-projects                                       goals
D those with access to basic                         D External funding sources
social and economic services                         (donors) continue in the
D percentage with timely access                        medium to long term to
to adequate food                                     provide financing for fiscal
D communities active in the                            decentralization
management and
conservation of natural
resources
Capable and accountable local D Existence and use of  D Project MIS             D Political and social stability
governance.                 transparent, accountable,  D Legal and policy documents  persists
demand-driven            D Local and regional budgets  D GoN remains committed
decision-making processes  D External financial audits  todecentralized participatory
D Broader representation of  D Mid-term and final project  processes for local
hitherto marginalized groups  evaluations             development
in local affairs                                    D Sustained budgetary
D Policy, legal, and fiscal                            committment to provision of
framework for                                         public services
decentralization operational
D Proportion of national
resources mobilized by rural
communities
D Reduced time lags to
implementation
D Decreased management to
investment costs.
-43 -



GEF Operational Program:  Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
To promote community -    Condition of natural resources Project MIS           a Constraints to CBIEM are
based integrated management and ecosystems as a whole in *Environmental surveys, maps  sufficiently recognized and
of ecosystems and natural  their multiple functions seen  Midterm and final project  addressed by the synergy of
resources as a means of   from a local, national and  evaluation                the combination of the five
reducing the region's     global environmental                                  main project components.
vulnerability to desertification, perspective as indicated by the
while fostering multiple global improvement trends in:                         * Timing, coordination and
environmental benefits    * Extent and composition of                           implementation of the five
woody and herbaceous                                 main project components will
vegetation and/or crops on                           allow for succes.
natural rangelands,
cultivated areas and
shorelines
* Area of marginal lands under
cultivation of annual crops
and those beirg protected
and/or activily recovered.
 Existence and condition of
livestock corridors and
compliance to rules
governing their use.
* Availability and accessibility
of grazing and water areas
during the dry season to
non-resident livestock
holders.
* Knowledge, preservation and
recovery of natural plant
species which serve as
sources of traditional food,
medicinal and veterinary
products.
- 44 -



ProJect Development       Outcome / Impact           ProJect reports:          (from ObJective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
To establish and           75 percent of communities in  Project MIS            Micro-projects completed
operationalize decentralized,  targetted communes carry out * Sector statistics  and successful in what they
participatory, and transparent  needs assessments and  * Field data collection  set out to accomplish
financing mechanisms that  produce feasible           Sample studies/surveys   * Local government
empower poor communities to  development plans      a External financial audits  representatives are elected
take charge of their own  a 60 percent of targetted  a Mid-term and final project  and/or function in a
development.               communities directly       evaluations               transparent manner
executing project-supported  * Periodic reports by  * Central government does not
micro-projects            community associations     override authority of local
* 75 percent of targetted                             decision-makers
communes (local
governments) receive
training and are actively
involved in local
development
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Community Support      a Number community        a Project MIS              * Development plans and
leaders/members trained   Accounting system reports  micro-project proposals are
a Capacity of local institutions * Existence of regular meetings  other reviews and audits  reviewed and approved on a
and community associations * Involvement of vulnerable  traing program curriculum  timely basis
strengthened to facilitate  groups in decision-making  minutes of community fora  * Funds to match community
local development planning,                          training material         contributions are available on
implementation, monitoring,                                                    a timely basis
and evaluation.                                                               a Willingness of beneficiaries
to use facilities and services
financed by the project
B. Local Governance       a Review of decentralization  Project MIS            Local commune and regional
Support                    legal and policy framework  Accounting system reports  authorities are responsive to
completed.                 other reviews and audits  the objectives and
*B. I Capacity of local   * Proposed system of fiscal  legal studies            participatory principles and
government strengthened to  decentralization tested  election observation results  practices of the C AP
support decentralization.  * New policies and procedures  technical studies
distributed and explained to
community associations                              National government remains
* B.2 Legal and policy    * Skills gap analysis completed a Skills gap analysis  committed to enactment of the
framework strengthened to  * Number of government  * traing program curriculum  decentralization process
support administrative and  representatives and support
fiscal decentralization   stafftrained
Existence of quality and
- 45 -



timely provision of support
to decentralized services
C. Local Investment Fund    Contractual agreements   * Project MIS             Decentralised micro-project
signed with community    * Accounting system reports  approval processes and
* Matching grants facility  associations             a other reviews and audits  matching grant disbursement
established and operational  Needs assessments    * Annual performance reviews mechanisms are managed in a
providing particular     completed                                           timely and effective manner
attractive conditions for  Development plans approved
micro-projects promoting  Communities able to raise
or supporting CBIEM.     local contribution
Number and distribution of
type of micro-projects
completed
D. Poverty and             Number of national surveys * Project MIS            Government remains
Environmental Monitoring    financed and carried out  * Accounting system reports  committed to the integration of
% and regional coverage of * other reviews and audits  poverty monitoring/ natural
* A cross-sectoral M&E      of communities successfully  * Annual performance reviews resource data management at
system established, providing  monitoring their own                           the national level.
feedback for rapid program  micro-projects as a basis for                     Communities respond to the
adaptation                management and future                               CAP incentives for them to
planning of local                                   develop resonsible and
development.                                        sustained management of their
local natural resources.
E. Support to Project       Existance of qualified staff  a Project MIS        {he CAP is able to attract:
Management                  mobilized, with defined  a Accounting system reports  i)the numbers of qualified
performance goals        * other reviews and audits  staff needed to coordinate
* Efficient and capable staff in  Office and transport  * Annual performance reviews activities in all 8 regions; ii)
place to manage project in  infrastructure adequate to                        the numbers of NGO's/private
decentralized framework.  project activities are                              sector associations with
procured and distributed                            adequate diversity of skills to
support the communities
implementing the program's
activities in all 8 regions.
-46 -



Hier   Oeives t . 1    .Key Perfgrmance -     Data Collection Strateg,
Hierarhyofbbjcive                                  O            If rdctr -. .  ;;  ,,,  Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Community Support      A. USD 3.5                * Project MIS             * Elected local council are
.  Bank Disbursement records  respected and competent to
*Quarterly and Annual project assist beneficiaries;
reports prepared by the  * Reports recieved by the
Ministry of Planning      Ministry are reviewed and
Technical reviews and audits  responded to in a timely
Supervision reports       manner
* Mid-term and final project  * Executing agency are able to
reviews                   operate sufficiently to affect
decentralization;
B.Local Governance Support  B. USD 3.75
C. Local Investment Fund  C. USD 26.60                                        imely delivery of inputs
full collaboration of all
relevant implementing
agencies
Committed professionals to
carry out each activity as
scheduled
{unding is secured
D. Poverty and Environmental D. USD 4.99
Monitoring
E. Support to Project     E. USD 4.99
Management
-47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGER: Community Action Program
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.50 million
The Community Support component is aimed at empowering communities to use decentralized and
participatory planning procedures and to build the capacity of community-based organizations (CBOs) to
design, implement, and manage micro-projects. Strengthening the capacity of CBOs will involve the
application of participatory appraisal (PA) and planning techniques to facilitate needs assessments, local
integrated development/ ecosystem planning, and implementation. The pilot operations which took place
during the pilot phase were aimed at preparing the ground for implementation of this component.
Capacity-building efforts will operate on the principle that there exists substantial, yet latent, social
capital, that hitherto lacked the administrative framework and financial and technical resources upon
which it could build. So rather than undertaking an extended preliminary phase of training on
participatory appraisal and fiscal management, the CAP will quickly offer access to local development
financing after a short period of PA, in the belief that communities will best learn by doing and will be
encouraged by quick results. (In the pilot operations, this was accomplished in 18 months). However, the
CAP will recognize that certain communities may well require more capacity-building than others, and
the program must therefore focus efforts to match existing conditions.
The hallmark of this component is the systematic use of PA techniques. This will require building
consensus on such techniques among NGOs, and private sector agencies, which will assist communities
to (i) conduct needs assessments, (ii) draft community integrated development/ ecosystem plans, and (iii)
facilitate implementation and monitoring of micro-projects. The needs assessments and development
plans will be submitted for approval and assessed using transparent criteria known in advance to all
stakeholders. The development plans will be implemented by the communities themselves, under the
leadership of committees created for this purpose. Communities will be able to exercise choice over
source of technical assistance, technology type, and investment design. Local government, NGOs, and
sector specialists may give input, guidance, and training, but not interfere in implementation. This is
essential to empower communities, ensure correspondence of investment to needs, and ensure
accountability to the community.The hallmark of this component is the systematic use of PA techniques.
This will require building consensus on such techniques among NGOs, who will assist communities to (i)
conduct needs assessments, (ii) draft community development plans, and (iii) facilitate implementation of
micro-projects. The needs assessments and development plans will be submitted for approval and
assessed using transparent criteria known in advance to all stakeholders. The development plans will be
implemented by the communities themselves, under the leadership of committees created for this
purpose. Communities will be able to exercise choice over source of technical assistance, technology
type, and investment design. Local government, NGOs, and sector specialists may give input, guidance,
and training, but not interfere in implementation. This is essential to empower communities, ensure
correspondence of investment to needs, and ensure accountability to the community.
The GEF resources will be blended with the technical assistance and financing of this component to
support (i) the CBOs in the incorporation in the PAs of the analysis of the linkages between poverty
reduction and the integrated management of the communities' natural resources ,as part of ecosystems
relating to water availability, food production and nutritional value and availability of household energy,
medicinal and veterinary products; (ii) the identification and inclusion of the various types of primary
- 48 -



male and female stakeholders within communities having interest in the maintenance of the various type
of production functions of the ecosystems (such as sedentary and non-sedentary livestock holders;
croppers; collectors of household products such as food, water and energy; fishermen; hunters and
traditional healers and nature conservationists and (iii) the ability of the CBOs and communities to
design and implement relevant micro-projects related to CBREM. Communities may decide not to place
CBIEM issues among their top priorities, and as a result these would not be financed. However, at a
minimum as a result of this component's activities, they would have identified problems.
Project Component 2 - US$3.75 million
The Local Governance Support component is aimed at strengthening administrative , technical and
fiscal dimensions of local governance. This will involve efforts at local and central levels within two
sub-components:.
a) Local governance: The CAP must work with, as opposed to avoiding or crowding out, local
governments who are mandated to oversee local development. The CAP must therefore be consistent
with public management processes and procedures and endeavor to strengthen local governance.
However, the institutional framework for local development is poorly developed in Niger due to a highly
centralized and poorly funded public administration.
To address these constraints, the CAP will pilot a program of local governance support in the first phase.
The program will work actively with a select set of local governments to build capacity in administrative,
technical and fiscal management, and ensure that they work effectively with their constituents - the local
communities. These participant local commune authorities will be selected according to transparent sets
of criteria developed during the preparatory phase of the program and specified in the Implementation
Manual. Over a 3-year time frame, the activities undertaken to improve local govemance will focus on
three complementary areas of capacity building: organizational and institutional development; local
development planning skills, procedures and regulatory frameworks; reinforcement of technical skills. In
this context, the GEF funds will be used to support the establishment and function of the local land
tenure committees with inclusion of representatives of various socio-economic and occupational levels
including non-sedentary live stockholders. The local commune authorities participating in the first phase
of the PAC program will also have the possibility of access to financing from the matching grant facility
(Component 3) to invest in local development priorities; however to achieve this, over the 3 years the
commune authorities will have to comply with a number of initial and sequential annual performance
benchmark requirements. These graduated performance criteria are derived from the lessons leamed from
the pilot experience of the UNCDF local govemance programs in the regions of Maradi and Diffa, and
are specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
b) Policy and institutional reforms: An enabling environment is essential for effectiveness and
sustainability of CDD. This requires political will, a conducive legal and regulatory framework, clear
sector policies, and well-defined roles, rights, and responsibilities for all the different categories of
stakeholders and all the different levels of decentralized govermment.
The CAP will work with the central government, notably the High Comnmission for Decentralization and
Administrative Reform and the recently attributed Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, to support
the gathering momentum in the process of a administrative and fiscal decentralization. This component
will also support the implementation of the legal and regulatory framework for decentralization, and
strengthen the capacity of the core line Ministries to reformulate their sector policies, and organize the
deconcentration and redeployment of their staff, to the lowest appropriate level of local govermnent.
Program financing may be used for training, consultations, technical assistance, and studies. Issues
requiring investigation include: the redefining of the mandate of various govemment /line agencies,
-49 -



specification of disbursement fumding mechanisms, establishment of accountability systems,
reformulation and enforcement of procurement and contracting laws, and the registration and legal status
of community groups. In addition, the legal and policy framework would need to be strengthened to
support administrative and fiscal decentralization..
Since use and tenure rights over natural resources remain particularly important in the context of
decentralization, the GEF funds will be earmarked to support the Secretariat of the Rural Code in the
development of national and local environmental governance policies and frameworks for promoting
CBIEM by discouraging cultivation of marginal lands and banks of surface waters, and by resolving
conflicting interests and use of surface waters.
Project Component 3 - US$ 26.60 million
The Local Investment Fund (LIF) is the financial facility that will channel small fungible capital grants
to communities and eventually to them through those of the pilot local commune authorities which
become eligible for the financing of micro-projects. The purpose of the LIF is to stimulate local
development and address the priority needs of communities. The LWF has the following fundamental
characteristics:
* socially inclusive participatory identification and selection of micro-projects;
* open menu of choices, with a short negative list;
* mandatory local contributions;
* transparent management of resources;
* local control of all construction work performed under contract;
* local responsibility for maintenance;
*   community responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of the process and outcome.
Initially, the LIF will flow from regional PMUs to communities. Eventually, the goal is to have the LIF
flow through local governments to support fiscal decentralization once accountable and democratically
elected are in place and have reached a level of capacity to serve their communities in this way (i.e.
through component B). Such micro-projects will be proposed by cormmunities as part of an approved
local development plan, and providing that a participatory needs assessment has been successfully
undertaken.
A central principle of the CAP is that communities may decide to use the LWF for any micro-project they
deem important. Such micro-projects will be proposed by communities as part of an approved integrated
local development plan, which itself will be derived from a participatory needs assessment.The
micro-projects may include, but are not limited to, natural resource management (soil fertility control,
erosion control, tree plantings and nurseries, fuelwood); production of crops, fish, and livestock
(irrigation, gardening, seedling production, livestock fattening, cereal banks, fish farming, food
processing, stockraising, beekeeping), water and sanitation (wells, boreholes); education (village schools,
literacy programs); health (clinics, health posts, disease prevention, including HIV/AIDS); rural transport
(rehabilitating local roads, small works); etc.
The LIF is a matching grant. As such, communities are expected to contribute a certain percentage of the
value of the investment, either in cash, or more likely in the form of labour or materials. For each type of
infrastructure, the LIF will contribute at least 80%, and the communities and the beneficiary populations
- 50 -



a minimum of 20% of the cost in the form of labor, materials and/or money. For other categories of
micro-project, the community contributions will range from 5 to 20% per cent, depending on the
objective and nature of the micro-project. The amount of the initial grant would be small. As a limited
fund, the LIF would encourage priority-setting and avoid creation of "wish lists". Communities that
effectively access and execute the LIF would be eligible in subsequent financing rounds for additional
funding. The access of the communities to this fund will be based on clear and specific eligibility criteria
to be detailed in a Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Identification and selection of micro-projects
Through a service provider, and in cooperation with the communities, the CAP will contract Community
Development Agents as necessary who will be in charge of information and participatory appraisal
activities at the village and district level. The priorities identified by the population will be first reviewed
by a project approval committee, composed of technical staff of the local administration and key
stakeholders in the private sector and civil society, whose role will include verification of the technical
feasibility of the micro-project, and to ensure that any proposed health, educational, and transport
facilities are consistent with national standards and guidelines. Following confirmation of approval of the
micro-project, the LDP's of the communities and eventually of the pilot local commune authorities, will
be forwarded to the regional administration and CAP 's regional office to ensure compliance with the
Bank's fiduciary and contracting requirements, and ensure prompt disbursement of funds to the
respective community's bank account. These two instances have, however, no authority to decide
whether the micro-projects are appropriate. If the normative control is positive, the regional coordination
unit will disburse funds to the community/ and those eligible local commune authorities. If the control is
negative, the community/commune will be informed of the reasons so that another application can be
prepared.
As necessary, communities will contract for the necessary technical assistance to develop the projects'
technical documents. These contracts can be made with private consultants, or NGOs; alternatively
arrangements for the payment of costs for technical assistance from the deconcentrated staff of the public
services can also be made. In case of agreements with the government technical services the modalities
will be specified by an overall agreement between the micro- project and these services.
The Annual Investment Plan will be forwarded to the regional administration and CAP's regional office
to ensure compliance with the micro-project's technical specifications and eligibility criteria. These two
instances have, however, no authority to decide whether the micro-projects are appropriate. If the
normative control is positive, the national coordination unit will disburse funds to the community. If the
control is negative, the community will be informed of the reasons so that another application can be
prepared.
Implementation and maintenance of micro-projects
Communities will manage and supervise LIF's capital investments. They will mobilize local
contributions and negotiate contracts with service providers for the implementation of the micro-projects.
The maintenance of micro-projects will be under local responsibility and will be made possible through
the creation of an Infrastructure Maintenance Committee (IMC) which will coordinate the maintenance
activities of the community and will' organize maintenance committees for the different micro-projects.
The community will establish a budget line for the maintenance of the infrastructure for which it will be
responsible.
Monitoring annual investment plans
The CCR will ensure overall compliance with the Project Implementation Manual. The responsibilities of
the technical services of the regional administration (also defined in an annex of the PIM) will ensure
-51 -



that micro-projects have met all eligibility criteria and standards.These deconcentrated services will
prepare an activity report twice a year to be submitted to the regional authorities, the appropriate
technical ministries, and the program's regional/national coordinating units. This should improve
coordination and planning between the regional and national level.
The financial envelope provided for the communities and local commune governments will be calculated
on the basis of a per-capita amount of some US$ 3 - 5 per capita per year. This amount may vary on the
basis of field experience, depending on the villages' capacity to make effective use of the resources
provided to them.
Investments selected by villagers and their representatives will cover a variety of sectors but they will be
subject to a negative list. Any sub-project that is not included on the negative list and that meets the
eligibility criteria set out in the procedures manual may be financed and managed locally (by the
beneficiaries).
Over a 14-month period commencing in Feb 2001, project concepts and approaches were tested in eight
pilot sites through sub-contracts to NGOs and donors with relevant field experience in participatory
techniques and community development. Based on the lessons learnt during these pilots, the project
approach has beeh reviewed, and the details of its implementation adjusted to better reflect local realities;
these are reflected in the PIM .Over a 14-month period commencing in Feb 2001, project concepts and
approaches are being tested in eight pilot sites through sub-contracts to NGOs and donors with relevant
field experience in participatory techniques and community development. Based on the lessons learnt
during these pilots, the project approach will be reviewed, and the details of its implementation adjusted
prior to credit effectiveness to better reflect local realities; these will be reflected in an Operations'
Manual which forms part of the ongoing process of project preparation.
GEFfunds
Half of the available GEF funds will be blended with the IDA funds in this component, representing
about eight percent of component financing. To promote and support in particular the global
environmental interests of CBIEM related activities, the proportional community contribution required
will be significantly lower for CBIEM related activities pertaining to a) community awareness raising
activities relating to the interest in integrated ecosystem management such as determining the degree of
importance of native natural rangelands species to poverty reduction, b) the maintenance of the
productivity, biodiversity and soil cover of the natural rangelands, including the preservation and/or
recovery of marginal lands and banks of surface waters, c) the introduction of valuable native species of
the natural rangelands within the cropping systems and d) allocation of cultivated areas to fodder
production by native fodder species.
Project Component 4 - US$4.99 million
The Poverty and Environmental Monitoring component is the CAP's M&E system. It will serve three
purposes: (i) measure levels and trends of poverty; community access to social services and to local
markets; and the state of natural resources; (ii) monitor the CAP in order to provide timely feedback to
both communities and program management in terms of relevance, efficiency, effectiveness and impact
of program interventions, in order that rapid corrective action can be taken if necessary; and (iii) enhance
local communities' capacity to analyze and manage their own development process. The system may rely
on a variety of survey instruments, including surveys on household income and expenditure, ad hoc
studies, and routine administrative records on access to infrastructure and services. The component will
finance data collection, analysis, training, workshops, and dissemination of results.
- 52 -



The poverty monitoring component will have two related sub-components:
*   National poverty monitoring system: The Government of Niger (GoN) and the donor community
have set a number of International Development Goals. The goals are intended to stimulate
accelerated progress on the human dimensions of poverty reduction as well as to improve the
effectiveness of the relationship between national governments and intemnational agencies. The GoN
has a challenge, however, as the access, use and maintenance of socio-economic and natural
resources data sets that currently exist in Niger is uncoordinated.
With the IDGs in mind, the national poverty monitoring system seeks to harmonize the access to and
use and maintenance of several of Niger's socio-economic and natural resources data sets. The
poverty monitoring system will first create a data management system for coordination of the
disparate data sets. Its first product is a series of national and regional maps or layers of maps of
different categories of indicators. These poverty maps will provide an initial assessment of the
multiple dimensions of poverty in Niger, as a baseline against which to measure future development
progress, and with supporting data and analysis may also be used to prescribe possible development
solutions. In short, the poverty maps will allow end-users at different levels (donors, govermment,
NGOs and communities themselves) to better target and coordinate development investments within
Niger. To support the CBIEM fostering of multiple global environmental benefits, GEF funds will
ensure that this monitoring system will also explicitly incorporate socio-economic and natural
resources data relating to the use and condition of the existing ecosystems in their multiple function
seen from a local, national and regional/global perspective. The geographical coverage of the first
phase of the CAP will select 15 - 20 percent of the population of Niger, based on administratively
defined (communes) and socially defined (village groupings) areas, which do not necessarily
conrespond to local ecosystems. However, based on prior identification of sites where the territory of
communes is characterized by complex agro-ecological production systems comprising sedentary and
non-sedentary livestock systems, cropping systems and/or substantial shared surface waters providing
ample opportunity to benefit from CBIEM, the selection of the target areas of the CAP will give
weight to the selection of these areas in the first phase. A GEF financed PDF-B preparation study (
Etude sur l'identification des sites prioritaires d'intervention du FEM au plan national par rapport d
la gestion integree des ecosystemes dans la mise en oeuvre du PAC) has identified 23 sites for
priority attention. By way of illustration, these include (i) complexe de mares de Albarkaize, (ii)
complexe Kokorou-Namga, (iii) Mare de Tabalak, (iv) foret classee et reserve totale defaune de
Gadabddji, (v)foret de Marigouna-Bela, (vi) cuvette e Gonedi, (vii) lac de Madarounfa, (viii)foret
de Korap, (ix) foret du lac Tchad, (x) complexe de Droum Malori. All these sites are located in the
two southern agro-pastoral agro-ecosystems. While the coverage of the CAP is expected to
eventually be national, initial preference can be given to communes that include or border these
zones. These priority sites already (a) feature within the national global environmental strategies and
(b) correspond to the global environmental agenda under OP12 (multiple global environmental
benefits).
The national poverty monitoring system, a form of geographic information system (GIS), will
tentatively be based within the Census Statistics Office. The coordinators of the data system will
have two initial objectives : (i) to work with Niger's research institutes, government statistical bodies
and NGOs to create the initial database for the spatial -assessment of poverty, and (ii) to develop a
strategy for sharing, using and maintaining data within Niger, by working towards the harmonization
of these disparate data sets and developing spatial visualizations of the data where feasible. The
sub-component would finance a small team (two or three people), hardware and software, training,
and consultants.
- 53 -



* Community-based M&E: The Millennium Development Goals provide one means of encouraging an
acceleration of progress towards poverty reduction. The GoN and the donor community have
increasingly recognized that community empowerment plays a similar role. The CAP expands the
scope for communities to articulate and modify their development vision through a community-based
monitoring and evaluation system.
Through its community-based monitoring and evaluation system, the CAP will facilitate a
community-wide reflection on local development and its evolution over time. On a theoretical level,
community-based monitoring and evaluation will fold forward-looking local planning into the CAP's
participatory assessment (PA) process. Instead of planning in terms of local community problems, as
is currently the approach, community-based monitoring and evaluation encourages planning in
function of local population's common vision for their future. Prospective planning facilitates the
selection of complementary sub-projects, increasing the returns to the CAP's local investment funds.
Furthermore, this approach trains community members to effectively assess development themselves.
As such, community members will be better equipped to troubleshoot problems and to re-evaluate
local development over time. CAP sub-projects will, therefore, be more likely to be operated and
maintained after the CAP has formally ended. Each of these advantages, in sum, will broaden
community empowerment opportunities within the CAP.
On an applied level, the community-based monitoring and evaluation system will consist of two main
parts: (i) introducing monitoring and evaluation at the community level, offering variable training
approaches based upon communities' education levels; and (ii) setting up a local system so that
communities can systematically assess and re-assess their own development.
With support from a community development agent, a community-chosen Monitoring and Evaluation
Committee will define the indicators that will be used to: (i) monitor CAP sub-projects; (ii) evaluate
the effect of the CAP and, potentially, of other local service providers on the community, from a
locally elaborated baseline; and (iii) systematically feed these observations into regular
re-adjustments of the local development plan. The Monitoring and Evaluation Committee will be
responsible for data collection and for the primary data analysis. Community development agents
will transmit a subset of this data to the decentralized regional program coordination units.
These steps suppose previous social mapping of the community, in order to establish which local
level institutions exist, what the impetus for their creation was, and what importance they represent
for sustainable community development. The intent of community-based monitoring and evaluation
is to build upon the strengths of these local indigenous institutions, while building towards an
approach to local development that goes beyond that of any one community sub-group. Similarly, the
approach seeks to foster a common community vision for development, as distinct from a
project-based focus.
This system has been developed by: (i) improving the participatory monitoring and
evaluation/assessment methodology used by each CAP operator (drawing from an "agent as catalyst"
training module currently under development, for community development agents and as such is
specific to the social and economic constraints of Niger's population), while using GEF funds to
incorporate activities to raise the awareness of communities towards their interest in CBLEM; (ii)
establishing the system for culling a subset of community-generated data needed by project
management; and (iii) developing a mechanism for transmitting that data to project management at
the regional and national levels. This system may also develop a mechanism for exchanging
information on and from the poor between the CAP and, locally, decentralized govemment agencies
or, nationally, the PRSP.
- 54 -



Each community's Monitoring and Evaluation Committee will be supported by a community
development agent. The community development agent will in turn be supported by both the
organization (NGO, government agency or consulting firm) for which s/he works as well as by a
regional training coordinator. The training coordinator's role will be to evaluate and support the
quality of community development agent work and to coordinate exchange and collaboration
between the community development agents in his/her region.
This sub-component will finance data collection, analysis, training, workshops and dissemination of
results.
Project Component 5 - US$4.99 million
The Support to Project Management component will cover project coordination, field services,
financial management, and establishment of a communication program. Project coordination will include
support for coordination meetings, liaison with the World Bank and other donors, and exchange of
experience at national fora. Field services include the training, personnel, equipment, and operating costs
associated with the program implementation in the eight regions. Financial management includes
operational planning and monitoring of the physical and financial execution of the CAP, procurement,
accounting, internal audit, and personnel management. The communication program includes
development and dissemination of information concerning program activities, approaches, results, and
possibly education in schools, on radio, and on television. The national program management unit and
the national program steering committee (see Section C4) will provide technical support and advisory
oversight to most of the activities of this component. The various aspects of program management will
also coordinate cross-cutting CBIEM-related activities, while in addition the GEF funds will finance the
development of a specific communication initiative to reach out to other relevant national, regional, and
global environmental programs.
- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RlDGER: Community Action Program
:   -   .  ,~~~~~~~~            ~   ~~~~~~~~ (l8 1'.l I-n nlvl  -L.u!
'PoJectflCdst>By CompQrt               ,.US $million     $milli on 0  US $million
Support to Communities                                    1.71          1.79         3.50
Support to Local Governance                               2.65          1.10         3.75
Local Investment Fund                                    26.60          0.00        26.60
Poverty Monitoring and M&E                                3.38          0.76         4.14
Support to Project Management and Coordination            4.04         0.95          4.99
Total Baseline Cost                                      38.38          4.60        42.98
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.78          0.07         0.85
Total Project Costs'             39.16         4.67        43.83
Total Financing Required             39.16          4.67        43.83
Local  T- ;orsig,
. ' '; Project Cost,By Category                             I .;llion  UiS$millionr  US $million
Goods                                                       0.83          1.91         2.74
Services                                                    5.33          2.35         7.68
Training                                                    0.20          0.20         0.40
Matching Grant for the FIL                                 24.60          0.00        24.60
Beneficiaries Contributions                                 2.00          0.00         2.00
Operating Costs                                             6.20          0.21         6.41
Total Project Costs'    39.16          4.67         43.83
Total Financing Required     39.16          4.67        43.83
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 39.83 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



Annex 4: Financial analysis of income-generating activities
NIGER: Community Action Program
Objective of the study
The objective of this study was to identify a representative sample of income-generating activities that
are likely to be selected by communities in the diagnostic phase of micro-project cycle in the CAP. These
are activities which are already commonly carried out by Nigeriens, such as crop farming, livestock
production, and petty trading and are important sources of income for most Nigeriens.
Methodology
A rigorous economic analysis was used to assess the capacity of each activity to achieve the social and
economic objectives of the CAP. The instruments used are the cash flow, Net Present Value (NPV) and
the Internal Rate of Return (ERR). An activity is estimated satisfactory when its NPV is greater than zero
or when its IRR is superior to 10%. The impact of exchange rate swings, subsidies, taxes were not taken
into account. No baseline study was carried out for the CAP. Rather, inputs into the analysis were
obtained from a desk-study based on the NGO and donors' reports such as the BAD and the World Bank.
Analysis
Small Animal Husbandry: It was the most demanded activity during the pilot phase of the CAP. It means
social recognition (activity traditionally considered as adding value) and represents a capital investment
as well (sale of various sub-products). The activity helps strengthen linkages between agriculture and
pastoralism, which-are complementary (fodder versus manure). The activity is financially cost-effective
and sustainable, even with the lost of every other flock due to theft, abortion and death. An increase of
the capital will benefit to the sector which can move progressively towards cattle-fattening and bring
more value-added to the activity.
Small Trade: This designation gathers a large variety of activities. In Niger, small trade plays an
important social role in the lifestyle of the population as it introduces local food-processing activities and
improves the quality of feeding. In spite of its unpretentious appearances it is a profitable activity. Its
individualistic nature could however, prevents it from being well integrated in the CAP.
Peanut Oil Extraction: This profitable activity helps women's integration in the project and is highly
profitable. The sector does not have any marketing issues because peanut oil is basic ingredient in Niger
cooking. However, some minor adjustments need to be done to help increase its value-added, such as
growth of revolving funds, improvement of channels of distribution, and improvement of the techniques
of extraction.
Flour Milling: Mills contribute substantially to the alleviation of women's workload and is a profitable
income-generating activity. However, some simple but essential environmental and managerial measures
need to be taken to improve operations. These measures apply to the reprocessing of otherwise wasted oil
and the control of mills' management.
Animal Carts: The social utility of the animal carts, which help villages to come out their remote
environments, is undeniable. More used in some geographical areas than in others, transportation by
animal carts helps owners overcome marketing constraints. Its is a profitable activity which can increase
- 57 -



easily depending on the animal used (donkey or cattle). The organization and distribution of
responsibilities may be difficult when the carts are owned communally.
Irrigated Agriculture: This is the major activity in Niger-and its social impact is immediate. Only
irrigated crop production has been analyzed without taking into account the capital costs of irrigation
infrastructure. Gardening and maize are profitable activities. Rice and niebe (locally grown bean) which
are cash crops are profitable too, but cultural techniques need to be improved.
;~ ~ ~      ~~~~~~~~                                   r - - -*j ;;1-  V  I 
Y -early Net Income (FCFA)               (10% 10 years)  IYR
, ! Acdlty   ; .'. . '  L   L   : _.        . .FCFA            .
'*, z*         1         ; I  2     3          ...        10
Small Runinants I14 160       4160  lf,d14160.'    Idem      14 160        87007      L    ]
Small Trades    90 000     90 000     90 000     Idem      90 000       553 011
PeanutOil' 2|6640w IF 26.640      || 26640      Idem      26640,   L   1636Y|
Cart    Cattle   -182 694   67 306     67 306      Idem      67 306       231 870      36%
ar  .k ,        ,_fl16  41784  |  l~784     ldem       1 4784       143 149     .-36%9o |
Seeds Mills    -870 964   279 037    279 037    Idem      279 037       855 424      31 %
Garde;ng, I    29500     '29,500     29500      Ider       29500  ||   181265
Rice (I ha)    326 500    326 500   326 500     Idem      326 500      2 006 201
iebe (Ilha)  2|53 500.1 253 500      253500 |    Idem      253500 ||      557 648  1     ]
Maize (Iha)     57 700    57 700     57 700      Idem      57 700 '     354 542
NPV: Net Present Value
IRR: Internal Rate of Return
-58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGER: Community Action Program
Years Ending
I_~~~~~~iR
Year I     Year 2  rYear 3   |Year 4   |Year 5   |Year 6   |Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           7.1       7.7       10.4      12.4       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.6        1.5       1.5        1.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          8.7       9.2       11.9      14.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              8.7       9.2       11.9      14.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  6.1        7.1       9.8       12.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7       0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-flnanciersGEF          1.4        0.9       0.9        0.8       0.0      0.0        0.0
Beneficiaries                0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     8.7       9.2       11.9      14.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 59 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGER: Community Action Program
Procurement
General
1. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998, which found
that in general national procedures for the procurement of works, goods and services are acceptable to
IDA subject to a few amendments. So far the findings of the CPAR remain valid. No special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB), since Niger's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be
carried out in accordance with Niger's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that
they assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank
Guidelines. For NCB procedures, the following principles have been adhered to: (i) any bidder is given
adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (ii) bid evaluation and
bidder qualification criteria are clearly specified in bidding/pre-qualification documents and not be
applied arbitrarily; (iii) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (iv) award is made to the
lowest evaluated bidder; (v) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and suppliers (vi)
award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and transparent
methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; and
(viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the
Procedures Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
Guidelines
2.     Goods and works financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999) (The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard
Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out using
the Bank's SBD with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and
notification", "currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic
preference provision, etc. Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation
of bids and the award of contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any
bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid
evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin
is granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award
will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and transparent methods;
(vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to
issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures
Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable.
3.     Consultant services contracts financed by IDA grant will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Standard Request for Proposal, as
developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment of Consultants.
- 60 -



4.     Procurement activities carried out for small works, goods and services for community-based
micro-projects financed by the matching grant (LIF) would be carried out in accordance with paragraph
3.15 of the Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). These would be described in a specific chapter of the PIM.
Advertising
5.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and published in the United Nations
Development Business and in a national newspaper at least 60 days before effectiveness. The GPN would
be updated on a yearly basis and would advertise for all outstanding International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for goods contracts and all International Consulting Services. The publication of a GPN in the
national press or official gazette is also required for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The program's
activities by expenditure and disbursement categories, their estimated costs, and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods
and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B below.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
6.     A procurement capacity assessment was carried out after the appraisal mission. As a result, an
action plan was agreed upon to address areas where the program's structures need to be strengthened.
The action plan includes: (i) the hiring of a Procurement Specialist at the CCN, (ii) training of the
procurement specialist so that he become well seasoned and knowledgeable of IDA procurement rules
and practices such as contract management and procurement filing, (iii) the establishment of a
procurement planning and contract management system integrated in the computerized Financial
management system to be installed at the central project coordination unit (CCN), (iv) annual technical
audits specific to procurement and (v) the development of procurement rules and methods in a large
section of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Procurement Status and Proposed Arrangements
7.     Procurement would be managed by the CCN which will include a procurement specialist and
would use consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. The recruitment of all positions in the
CCN and CCRs should be acceptable to IDA prior to credit effectiveness and during the life of the
project.
8.     Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
Borrower for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The CCN would be required
to prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be
exceeded during the life of project implementation.
9.     Project Implementation Manuel (PIM). The PIM is being finalized. It will serve as a practical
guide describing procedures agreed upon in the DGA. It will include: (i) procedures for calling for bids,
selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for supervision and control,
including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting requirements
and, (iii) disbursement procedures. The PIM has been examined during negotiations and will be adopted
before grant effectiveness. In any case, a version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of grant
effectiveness.
-61 -



10.    During negotiations, the Government reviewed and agreed with IDA on standard bidding
documents to be used under NCB procedures for Goods and works. The Government also gave assurance
that it will: (i) use the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid
Evaluation Reports; (iii) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (iv) update
the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to compare
target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all
procurement-related documents; and (v) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's procurement
experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the current
procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.
Procurement Methods
11.    Works. There won't be any major civil works contract under the project. There will only be
small works for the rehabilitation or construction of three offices at the regional level for the CCRs in
Agadez, Diffa and Tahoua to be financed by IDA and estimated to cost US$160,000 in total. The
remaining works consist of small works to be carried out through community-based micro-projects. The
office construction or rehabilitation will be procured under national competitive bidding. Given the size,
amount and demand-driven nature of community-based works, these contracts would be governed when
applicable by the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments (February 1998) and the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). As part of grants for
community-based micro-projects, small works will mostly be works relating to small community social
infrastructures such as classrooms, rural health houses, youth facilities, community meeting facilities,
etc. These small works are estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract. They may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer
the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
12.   Goods. Procurement of computer equipment, office equipment, materials and furniture, locally
available at economical price and costing less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of US$300,000 will follow NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of vehicles, motorcycles
and equipment up to an aggregate amount of US$2.00 million would be carried through ICB. Goods that
cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$50,000 or more may be procured through
national/international shopping according to procedures acceptable to IDA, or through IAPSO. The
Borrower would award the contract, on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified
suppliers, following evaluation of bids received in writing from such qualified suppliers. The award
would be made to the supplier with the lowest price quotation for the required goods, provided he still
has the experience and resources to execute the contract successfully.
- 62 -



13.   IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$ 200,000 equivalent
for Goods will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures in accordance to Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines. The review process would cover about 70% of the contract amounts for goods and
consultants - see Table B below.
14.    Community-Based Procurement. The project will finance community-based sub-projects
(total is estimated at $26.6 million equivalent), such as small and social infrastructures, classrooms, rural
health houses, LEC-related activities and materials, minor repairs or works etc. Funding for these
activities will be in the form of grants. Communities will be required to contribute on agreed percentage
of the total budget in labor, kind or in cash (see Project Implementation Manual for details).
15.    Financing will depend on applications received from communities against a negative list of
activities. It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods, small works, and services to be
procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Therefore, the types of activities to be
financed and their procurement details will depend on the needs identified by the communities.
Procurement of items for the implementation of sub-projects would be carried out in accordance with
simplified procurement procedures referred to the Project Implementation Manual. The manual will
contain a special chapter describing the procedures and tools in accordance with those found in the
Bank's Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments
(February 1998). The CCN and the CCRs will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these
guidelines, and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and
independent technical audits.
16.    Aggregate amounts are limiting. Therefore, the CCN and the CCRs responsible for
procurement will maintain a tracking system to ensure that they are not exceeded and that IDA is timely
advised when it is likely to happen.
Consultants Services, Studies and Training
17.    Consulting Services financed by IDA would be for (i) studies, supervision, support of project
implementation, financial management support, financial audits; and (ii) consultancies on technical
matters and training-skills gap analysis and skills development and LEC campaigns. Consultants financed
by IDA, totaling US$ 5.37 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Selection would be based on competition among
qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality
of the proposals before combining quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and
cost scores. The Project Implementation Unit would ensure widely publicized expression of interest to
get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed upon criteria, the Project Implementation Unit will
maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists. Short-lists of
consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants,
if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are locally available at competitive costs. This
would particularly apply to contracts for specialized studies with NGOs. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
18.    Other methods would also apply. For audits and other services of a standard nature estimated to
cost less than US$ 100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.25 million the selection would be made
on the basis of Least Cost Selection (LCS). Consultants for small studies, short term assignments, project
implementation which can be delivered by individuals or firms (through Selection Based on consultants
- 63 -



Qualifications method) and costing less than US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 2.12
million, would be selected through comparison of qualifications among individual consultants (IC)
expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.
Consultants hired under the project cannot be civil servants.
19.   IDA Reviews. Bank Staff will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed
by the Borrower in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Consultants.
- All consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms and all individual consulting
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA prior review.
All other contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix I of the
Guidelines.
Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review
thresholds are subject to IDA review.
20.   All terms of reference and all single-source selection of consultants would be subject to IDA prior
review. Other procurement subject to IDA review would include: annual training plans for local and
overseas training and workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. All out of country
training will be subject to IDA approval.
21.    The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measure
to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases      Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding  4 (6 for large contracts)
documents
Preparation of bids by  4 (6-10 for ICB)
bidders
Bid evaluation          2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of Contracts  2
Payments                3
-64 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangeffients
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.20         0.00         0.00       0.20
(0.00)         (0.16)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.16)
2. Goods                           2.06           0.26          0.18        0.00        2.50
(1.60)         (0.23)        (0.17)      (0.00)     (2.00)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         2.37         2.71       5.08
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.37)      (0.00)     (2.37)
4. Training                        0.00            0.00         3.00         0.00       3.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (3.30)      (0.00)      (3.00)
5. Local Investment Fund for       0.00            0.00         24.60        2.00      26.60
Matching Grants of
micro-projects
(0.00)         (0.00)       (22.50)       (0.00)    (22.50)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00            0.00         4.07         1.48       5.55
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.07)      (0.00)     (4.07)
7. PPFs                            0.00            0.00         0.90         0.00       0.90
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.90)      (0.00)      (0.90)
Total                            2.06           0.46         35.12        6.23       43.83
(1.60)          (0.39)      (33.01)       (0.00)     (35.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
matching grants for sub-projects and incremental operating costs related to project implementation and
management.
- 65 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
; .-esctlon Method
l  d$nsuetan;SesVlcz  ;     **.  'l!','..,,.
i.lenwndlWrx'Catsgory, l i QCI}3Si  QBS  ;.SF3  LCS    CO    Caher    N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               3.33    0.00    0.00    0.27     0.00    0.00    0.00      3.60
(3.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.25)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.25)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    3.06     1.42     4.48
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.12)  (0.00)   (2.12)
Total  3.33    0.00     0.00    0.27     0.00    3.06    1.42     8.08
, (3.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.25)   (0.00)  (2.12)   (0.00)   (5.37)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
OBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 66 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contacts Subject to
sThrshold              Prc'curement        :p7Or RnvDew
ExpendiWure Category     (US$ thousands)             Met hod              (US$ millions)
1. Works
Rehabilitation or          $200,000 or less            NCB                  Post Review
construction
Small works for            $25,000 or less        National Shopping         Post Review
micro-projects                                                         (except first 3 contracts)
2. Goods                   Above $200,000               ICB                 Prior Review
Post Review
Below $200,000              NCB             (except first 3 contracts)
Less than $50,000          Shopping               Post Review
3. Services                Above $50,000               QCBS            Prior Review (>100,000)
Consulting Firms                                                       Post Review (<=100,000)
Below $50,000                CQ            Post Review (except first 3
contracts)
4. Audits and enginering  Less than$ 100,000            LCS                 Post Review
designs
5. Individual               Above 50,000                                    Prior Review
Consultants                                            3 CVs
50,000 or less                                  Post Review
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  70 percent of total
costs
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six (6) months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
A computerized accounting and integrated financial management system will be set up and assessed by
IDA as a condition of effectiveness. The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all
disbursements that will be effected under the project. The project will be implemented over a four-year
period and it is expected to close by 06/30/2007.
(a) Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full
documentation except for items of expenditures under contracts of less than: (a) $100,000 for civil
works and goods; (b) $100,000 for consultant services contracts for firms; (c) $50,000 for
consultant services contracts for individuals as well as (d) all training and operating costs, which
will be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation
for SOEs will be retained at the Project Implementation Unit and will be readily accessible for
review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external auditors;
(b) Special Account and 90-day advance accounts: To facilitate project implementation, the
Government will open a Special Account in FCFA in a commercial bank in Niamey on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 2,000,000,000 and will
cover about 4 months of eligible expenditures. Upon grant effectiveness, IDA will deposit the
amount of FCFA I billion representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments amount to
the equivalent of USD $10 millions. The Special Account will be used for all payments in an
amount below 20 % of the initial deposit to the Special Account. Replenishment applications will
be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
In addition to the main Special Account, the Government will open eight 90-day advance accounts
in commercial banks or Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) in the eight regions where the project
will be implemented, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The project shall
withdraw from the main Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed FCFA 50 million
into each 90-day Advance Account. Funds will be used for payments of goods, works and services
as well as for the micro-projects granted to Farmer Organizations.
(c) Govermnent will also open a Special Account in CFAF in a commercial bank in Niamey on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for the activities financed by the GEF grant. The
authorized allocation will be FCFA 300,000,000 and will cover about 4 months of eligible
expenditures. Upon GEF grant effectiveness, the Bank will deposit the amount of FCFA
150,000,000 million representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the GEF Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total commitments amount to
the equivalent of SDR 1 millions. The GEF Special Account will be used for all payments in an
amount below 20 % of the initial deposit to the GEF Special Account. Replenishment
applications will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by the Bank into the GEF Special
Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents. In
addition to the main GEF Special Account, the Government will open eight GEF 90-day advance
accounts in commercial banks or Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs) in the eight regions where the
project will be implemented, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The project shall
withdraw from the main GEF Special Account and deposit an amount not to exceed FCFA 3
million into each GEF 90-day Advance Account.
- 68 -



Flow offunds
The Special Accounts would be managed by the Project linplementation Unit which would use it to pay for
all the eligible expenditures. The Project Implementation Unit would ensure that all disbursements are
effected in accordance with Bank procedures. The CCN will have responsibility for the production of the
annual consolidated financial statements.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
' Expenditure;ategoiy.:   Amount ln'USSmillion        Financing Percentage   .
1. Civil Works                          0.16                       80%
2.Goods                                 2.00          100% of Foreign expenditures and 80%
of Local expenditures
3.Consultant Services and audit fees    2.37          85% of Foreign expenditures and 80%
of Local expenditures
4.Training                              3.00                       100%
5.Matching Grants for Sub-projects      22.50             100% of amounts disbursed
6.Operating Costs                       4.07                       90%
7.Refunding of Project Preparation      0.90         Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                                          of the DGA
Total Project Costs                     35.00
Total                                   35.00
The term " Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the NCU and the
RCUs on account of office supplies and maintenance, administrative support, communication,
insurance and utility services, travel and associated subsistence allowances, vehicle operation and
maintenance costs, rental expenses, banking charges, and salaries for contractual and temporary
staff except the staff referred to in Section II(2)(c) and Section I(3)(c) of Schedule 4 to the
Development Grant Agreement, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil
service.
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1.1 An assessment was conducted for the Ministry of Finance and Economy to: (a) determine if
it has acceptable procedures of financial management in term of internal and extemal controls
and of management of financial information; and (ii) make recommendations on how to
minimize the fiduciary risk components identified.
1.2 The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE) is composed of administrative and financial
services. The assessment of its financial management capacity reveals four components of
fiduciary risk: (a) the inadequate organizational framework to manage resources from foreign
origin; (b) the paucity of a posteriori administrative controls; (c) the lack of financial information
on ongoing operations; and (d) the too low level of budgetary allocations.
-69 -



The inadequate organizational framework. Management problems originate from the lack of
salary motivations, the absence of task descriptions, the lack system to assess the
performance of staff and the lack of an adequate training plan. These problems are the cause
of the low productivity of agents and the departure of competent personnel from the public
service. In addition, there are no manuals of administrative, financial and accounting
procedures.
The paucity of a posteriori administrative controls. The a posteriori administrative controls
which should be conducted by the Inspection Generale des Finances (IGF) and the Inspection
Generale d'Etat (IGE). These two institutions are not able to cover their work programs because
of lack of resources. However, the fiduciary risk which this may cause is moderated by the
existence of an a priori control exerted by the financial controllers within the public expenditure
circuit.
The absence of information on the execution of financial operations. Quarterly or
semestrial statements of budgetary execution are not available. This prevents taking corrective
measures to ensure the correctness of expenditures. In addition, there is no computerized
integration of the expenditure circuit which made it very difficult to monitor the engagements
and the payments at the level of MFE. Public accounting is still manual; there is a quasi total
absence of computer equipment in general.
The inadequate operating credits. Operating credits are insufficient. In addition, they are not
liberated in a timely fashion causing cash problems.
1.3 The nature of decentralized project using CBOs as as principal actors generate other
fiduciary risk components. They may be mainly (i) the slowness of funds transferts; (ii)
administrative delays for financial management information flows and (iii) the non
compliance of practices with procedures.
2. The system to be put in place.
In view of the above, the management of the project will not be left to the MFE. An
independent project unit will be established. The Project will be a non profit independent entity
with a juridical personality and financial and administrative autonomy. The following devices will
be put in place:
*  a Steering Committee (Comite de Pilotage, CP) composed of different ministries involved in
the project implementation;
*   a Central Project Coordination Unit (Cellule de Coordination National, CCN) responsible for
the day to day operations of the project, composed, among other staff, of a coordinator, a
procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, an internal auditor and an
accountant;
*   Regional Project Coordination Units (cellules de Coordination Regionales, CCR) will be
responsible for day to day operations at the decentralized level and will be composed,
among other staff, of a regional coordinator, an accountant;
*  capacity building activities in financial management to carry out to the benefit of
Communities (CBOs or other local indigenous institutions) by NGOs or Private Sector
Agencies;
- 70 -



*  a manual of administrative, financial and accounting procedures for CCN and CCRs' use; it
has to point out, among other procedures, financial management links in terms of funds and
information flows between CCN and CCRs;
*  a simplified financial management procedures manual for CBOs and other local indigenous
institutions;
*  the opening of a special account in a commercial bank in Niger to be managed by CCN;
*  the opening of a project account in a Public Treasury in Niger to be managed by CCN;
*  the opening of eight 90-day advance accounts in commercial banks or reliable
micro-finance institutions in the five regions where the project will be implemented; these
accounts will be managed by CCRs;
*  the opening of community accounts by CBOs or other local indigenous institutions in in
commercial banks or reliable micro-finance institutions.
*  a computerized information and management system with a program of administrative,
financial and accounting management with monitoring capabilities; it will be installed inside
CCN and according to the new Bank integrated management system "FMR" adapted to the
specific requirements of the project; it will be installed also in the CCRs;
*  a recruitment of a financial management specialist, an internal auditor and an accountant,
all CCN staff;
*  a selection of an external auditor for all the implementing actors of the project.
3. Financial Reporting
Separate financial statements will be prepared for the project. They will comprise: (i) a
statement of source and application of Funds for the project during the current financial year
and cumulative since the start of the project; and (ii) a balance sheet. These two financial
statements will be prepared annually. In addition, the project management unit will submit
biannual reports using the FMR models including financial reports, physical progress reports
and procurementcontracts reports, within 45 days of the end of the reporting period.
4. Audit Arrangements
Financial Audit.The consolidated financial statements of the project will be audited for each
fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on
auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion
on: (i) the project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds and
Balance Sheet); (ii) the statement of expenditures (SOE); (iii) the special account (SA); and (iv)
the project account.
The auditor will also issue a separate management report on internal and operational.
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and
operational procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit at the levels of
CCN, CCRs and CBOs.
- 71 -



Technical Audit.Contracts with beneficiaries, whose templates are appended to the PIM, refers
to micro-project technical audits. They are ordered and managed systematically or randomly by
the CCN or the CCR. For this purpose, the Program can hire firms.
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGER: Community Action Program
cPsc~SOGCRohedu5e                        - ; , ilanned; - '-      '~'    1 -Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     23                          34
First Bank mission (identification)            09/15/1999                  09/15/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    03/20/2002                  04/15/2002
Negotiations                                   06/04/2002                  02/03/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/09/2002
Prepared by:
M. Ibrahim Boukary Abdou, Direction du Developpement Regional et Local, Ministry of Finance and
Economy
Preparation assistance:
M. Boukar Attari, Consultant FEM
M. Tiemou, Consultant Communication
M. Sebastien Voyneau, Facilitateur
M. Aboulkarim Bawada, Gestionnaire
Mme Oumarou Rabi, Secr6taire
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Daniel Sellen                     AFTR2, task team leadership (HQ)
Amadou Alassane                   AFTR2, task team leadership (field office)
Josef Toledano                    AFTR2, matching grant facility, monitoring and evaluation
Elizabeth Morris-Hughes           AFTH3, community participation, gender, decentralization
Soulemane Fofana                 AFTR2, operations analyst
Willem Zijp                       AFTQK, quality assurance
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni                AFMNE, participation, NGOs
Salifou Mahaman                  AFMNE, additional support from field office
Mamadou Yaro                      AFMNE, financial management
Renee Desclaux                    LOAG 1, disbursement
Henry Aka                         AFTPC, procurement
Yves-Coffi Prudencio              AFTR2, GEF
Asha Ayoung                       AFTQK, procurement
Bertrand De Chazal                AFTFM, financial management
Hans Wabnitz                      LEGAF, legal
Wilda Sajous                      AFTR2, project assistance from HQ
Hadidia Djimba                    AFMNE, project assistance from field office
Paula Donnelly-Roark              AFTES, local level institutions
Enos Eskuri                       ENV, GEF
Christophe Crepin                 AFTES, GEF
- 73 -



Manush Hristov                      LEGAF, legal
Marie-Jeanne Ndiaye                 AFTR2, project assistance from HQ
Yao Wottor                          AFTQK, procurement
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGER: Community Action Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
"Etude Champ d'utilitisation du fonds d'investissement local", COWI consultants.
"Manuel d'execution du Programme d'Action Communautaire", Rene Cipriani, consultant
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Peer Reviewers
Jeeva Perumalpillai-Essex (SASRD), David Warren (LCSHS).
Other written comments received at Concept Review (January 6,
2001):
Hans Binswanger (AFTRE), Tracy Hart (AFTU 1), Josef Toledano
(AFTR3), Dounia Loudiyi (AFTH3), Renee Desclaux (LOAFF),
Yves-Coffi Prudencio (AFTR3), Denise Vaillancourt (AFTH3), Paula
Donnelly-Roark (AFTES), Remi Kini (AFTEI), Jean-Michel Pavy
(AFMCI), Nadjib Sefta, Irene Xenakis (AFTQK), Christophe Crepin
(AFTR2), and Salifou Mahaman (AFMNE).
Quality Enhancement Review:
Willem Zijp (chair, AFR), Laura Rawlings (LAC), Laura Frigenti (AFR), Laura Kullenberg (OED),
Philippe Dongier (SDV), and Michael Goldberg (LAC).
C. Other
IDA project cycle documentation:
* Identification Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire, September 23, 1999.
* Minutes of Concept Review Meeting, January 13, 2000.
*   Pilot preparation mission Aide Memoire, May 31, 2000.
*   Preparation Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire, October 5, 2000.
* Pre-appraisal Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire, May 2001
* Operator liaison mission reports, various dates
* Minutes of the Quality Enhancement Review, July 19, 2001
* Minutes of the Decision Meeting, April 4, 2002
* Appraisal Mission BTOR and Aide Memoire, April 2002
GEF project cycle documentation:
* Proposal for Project Development Funds (PDF), August, 2000
* GEF approval for PDF resources, October 5, 2000
* PDF-B Grant Agreement, December 22, 2000
* GEF approval for PCD, January 2002
- 75 -



Workshop and pilot project supervision reports:
*   "Rapport de I'atelier pour batir un consensus sur le Programme de Developpement des Communautes
de Base (PDCB)". Cabinet Mana Boukar. Septembre 2000. (46 pp.)
*   HIV/AIDS workshop, Dosso, November 2000.
* First pilot operators workshop, Dosso, February 2001.
* Second pilot operators workshop, Zinder, June 2001.
* Third pilot operators workshop, Bouza (Tahoua), October 2001
* Fourth pilot operators workshop, Maradi, April 2002
* Pilot supervision mission reports (January, April, May, June, August, October, 2001)
* HIV/AIDS workshop reports (November 2000
* Natural Resource Management working group workshop report (October 2000)
* Local Investement Fund working group workshop report (October 2000)
* Decentralization and local capacity-building working group workshop report (November 2000)
Commissioned studies:
* "Enjeux du developpement communautaire" (survey of community-based development in Niger),
Melchiori and Doka, consultants. June 2000 (162 pp.)
* "Etude sur l'analyse du cadre institutionnel et juridique regissant la gestion int6gree des ecosystemes
au Niger et propositions d'appui pour le renforcement dans l'optique d'une gestion decentralisee,
incitative, durable et integree." BUNEC, Septembre 2001. (125 pp.)
* "Etude sur l'identification et l'analyse des contraintes d'ordre ecologique, sociologique et
economique relatives a la gestion integree des ressources naturelles au Niger sur la base d'etudes de
cas de deux ecosystemes differents et propositions d'orientations pour y faire face, en vue d'une
gestion integree des ecosystemes". KRB Ingenieurs Conseils (2 documents), Octobre 2001 (30 et 32
pp.)
* "Etude sur l'identification des sites prioritaires d'intervention du FEM au plan national par rapport a
la gestion integree des ecosystemes dans la mise en ceuvre du Programme d'Actions Communautaires
(PAC)." Monsieur Arimi Ari, Octobre 2001 (25 pp.)
* "Etude sur l'identification des besoins en formation en matiere de gestion des ressources naturelles
des partenaires du Programme d'Actions Communautaires." Mme Dodo Hannatou, Aofit 2001, (30
pp.)
* "Etude sur la conception des methodes et formulation d'un plan de communication du PAC."
Monsieur Mariko Boubacar, consultant Novembre 2001. (161 pp)
* "Etude sur l'analyse locale et la definition d'une methode participative communautaire adoptee au
VEWSIDA." Monsieur Bozari Mamane, Consultant, Septembre 2001 (112 pp.)
* Etude sur la definition d'une note conceptuelle en vue de deterniiner des activites eligibles au FEM
dans le cadre de l'OP 12 dans le contexte agro-ecologique du Niger." Mahamadou Issaka Magha,
Consultant. Novembre 2001 (36 pp.)
* "Identification des besoins en formation des acteurs du PAC" (training plan). In progress.
* "Analyse de reponse locale et definition d'une methode d'estimation participative communautaire
adaptee au VIH/SIDA" (HIV/AIDS study). In progress.
* "Preliminary atlas of poverty/vulnerability of Niger", Stone Environmental, Inc. March 2001 (75 pp.)
* "Community-based monitoring and evaluation for the Community Action Program", Hope Neighbor,
consultant, July 2001.
* "Survey of monitoring and evaluation methodologies in projects in Niger." Amadou Konare,
consultant. December 2000.
*   "Harmonizing decentralizing financial management in Niger", Hope Neighbor, consultant. July 2001.
- 76 -



*   "Preparation du manuel suivi/evaluation" (M&E manual). In progress.
*   "Local level institutions and their interface with local governments in Niger". Paula Donnelly-Roark
and consultants. In progress.
*Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGER: Community Action Program
02-Jan-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                         Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P072996       2002 Niger.Pnvate Imgaton Prorrobon                  0.00     38.72                          0.00     41.18      8.54      000
P061558       2001 WATER SECTOR PROJECT                            0.00     48.00                          0.00     46.69      7.19      0.00
P058730       2000 Agro-pastoral Export Promobon Project           0.00     10.35                          0.00      7.23     -2.91      000
P051272       1999 PRIVATIZ./REG REFORM                            0.00     18.60                          0.00     10.04      9.92      257
P035608       1998 NE TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                         0 00     28.00                          0.00      5.01      4.16      0.00
P049691       1997 URaAN INFRAS. REHAB.                            0.00     20.00                          0.00      347       3.99      3.99
P001999            HEALTH II                                       0.00     40.00                          0.00      6.67      9.51      3.98
Total:       0.00     203.67                         0.00     120.50     40 39     10.64
NIGER
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic     Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
Total Portfolio:                0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
FY Approval             Company                                    Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Conunitrnent:                0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGER: Community Action Program
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Nlger     Africa  Income      Development dlanondi
2001
Population. mid-year (mr/lions)                      11.2      674     2,511                 Life expectancy
GN per capita (Atlas methodt USS)                    180       470       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bilMions)                      2.0      317      1,069
Average annual growth 199541
Population (%)                                        3 4       2.5       1.9
Laborfcce I(%)                                        3.3       2.6       2.3     GNI    I             .         Gross
per          .       -        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 199541)                             capita          .           enrollment
Poverty (1% of population below national poverty line)
Urban populabon (% of totaj population)               21        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (ears)                       46        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bliths)             114        91        76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            40         ..        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populaton)   59        55        76
Illilteracy (% of poputation age 15+)                 84        37        37
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  31        78        96          Niger        Low-ncomegroup
Male                                                38        85       103            Ngr        LwIcm       ru
Female                                              24        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
EconomIdc ratioe
GDP (USS bilblons)                           2.2      2.7       1.8       1.9
Gross domestc Investment/GOP                20.3      7.8      10.6      12.6
Exportsotgoodsandservices/GDP               24.2     11.9      15.5      14.4                    Trade
Gross domestc savings/GDP                    8.2      3 8       2.9       2.8
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                     ..      3.1       2.9       3.6
Current account balance/GDP                   ..     -4.6      -7.4      -7.5     Dom.stc 
Interest paymrnts/GDP                        3.1      0.8       0.5       1.4     Dsti            .          Investment
Total debt/GDP                              47.1     54.4      89.8
Total debt service/exports                  31.6     315        9.4
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      57.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       .      345.1
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141     2000       2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.0      3.0     -1.4       7.6       4.2            Nger     - Low2ncome goup
GDP percapita                      -3.1     -0.4     -4.6       4.1       1.0
Exports of goods and services      -4.6      7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19W1     1991      2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 45.7     33 2      38.8      38.7
Industry                                    19.2     15.0      17.7      17.6
Manufacturing                              3 9      5 3       6.8       6.8      2
Services                                    35.2     51.9      43.5      43.7            o          g s7  ra  3D  0  D
Private consumption                         80.8     83.1      84.4      84.4    -as
General govemment consumption               10.9     13.1      127       12.8
Imports of goods and services               36.2     15.9      23.2      24.2                    GDI        GDP
1981-91  199141       2000     2001      Growth of exprts end Imports (%)
(average annual growth) 
Agriculture                                  2.4      3.2        ..         .    30
Industry                                    -1.7      2.6        ..        ..   i      .s
Manufacturing                              -1.8     3.3         ..       ..    I
Services                                    -2.6      2.5        ..        ..8                                 00   Os lt  
Private consumption                         -0.8      3.8         .         .
General govemment consumpton                 6.2     -0.8        ..        . 
Gross domestic investment                   -3.4      6.0         .                            Exports     :lrperts
Imports of goods and servces                -5.7     -1.2
Note. 2051 deta me Paeellranry estimates.
The diamonds show four key indlictors In tie country tin bold) corripamd with lIb Incorngroup *verage, if date are rninag the dimrond will be incrnpiete
- 79 -



Niger
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
19t31    1991      2000     2001     tnatlon (%)
Doornesfic pikres                                                                2
(% rhange)
Consumer pnices                                .     -1.9       2.9      4"0     10
Implicit GDP deflator                       106      14 6       4 5      4.0
Government flnance                                                                       96   97    9     9     00    01
(% of GDP, includes current gnnts)
Current revenue                                       7.8       8.6      9.2    -20
Current budget balance                               -1.5      -2.6     -18                   GDP defator  OCPI
Overall surplus/defcit                               -6 5      -7.6     -7.4
TRADE
(US$ mrriliionrs)                           1981    1991      2000      2001     Export rand tnport level (US$ mritL)
Total exports (fob)                            .     270       283       283      o-
Uranium                                             199        90       85
Uvestock products                                    40        49       49     40
Manufactures                                          .*
Totat imports (cif)                                  356        324      347
Food                                                 31        20       26     2                        A        I
Fuel and energy                              .       19        38       37
Capital goods                                       102        67       84       0
Export price index (1995=100)                                   105      107          95        s ST  Be       o    o
ImportprkceIndex(1995=100)                                      139      137                 *EpetIs      *l0mports
Temms of trade (1995=100)                                       75        78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP I%)
(USS nniDlons)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                   524      327       313       312      o
Imports of goods and servrces                786     436       448       473
Resource balance                            -261     -109      -135     -161
Net income                                              1       -17      -15
Netcurrenttransfers                          109      -20        17       30
Current arount balance                              -128       -135     -146    .10
Financing tRems (net)                                128        164      154
Changes in net n3sesves                        .       0        -29       -8    _1
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (USS flons)                    -5         78       94
Conversion rate (DEC localt/USS)           271.7    282.1     712.0    733.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   CornpoaHion of 2000 debt (US) mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,022    1.494     1.638
IBRD                                        0        0         0                              G 83
IDA                                        79      479       723        P. Fa8
Total debt service                           173      107        28       ..
IBRD                                         0       0         0         ..
IDA                                          1       5         14        .        E. 447                      B 723
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..
Official creditors                         135      23         54
Private creditors                          188      -55       -2
Foreign direct ivestment                    -6      15         15                          :4
Portfolio equity                             0       0          0                        D: 243    C: 74
Wortd Barn program
Commitments                                  0      19         45      130     A- IFDt                     E- Bhtatera
Drsbumeements                               13      17        68        B.-IDA           D-0Othw r-idtterls  F - PrWate
Prncipal repayments                          0       2          8               C - IMF                   G - Sho5t-t-m
Netflows                                    12      16         60
Interest payments                            1       4         6
Netbansfers                                 12      12         54
Uevelopment cconomfcs                                                                                             Bn vuZ
- 80 -



Additional Annex 11 STAP review
NIGER: Community Action Program
Project Number:     P073011
Country:            Niger
Project Name:       Community Action Program
STAP Reviewer:      Dr. J. Michael Halderrnan, Independent Consultant, Berkeley, California.
Date:               December 27, 2001
Key Issues
1)     Scientific and technical soundness of the project.
The Niger Community Action Program (CAP) has been carefully and thoroughly designed following
sound technical and scientific principles. The program aims to reduce poverty and improve governance
by stimulating economic growth, improving natural resource management, raising levels of health,
education and food security, and empowering communities and local governments. The CAP aims to
achieve these goals by strengthening local level capacity and financing demand driven micro-projects.
The CAP represents a major, long term effort with an indicative financing plan totaling US$237 million
over 12 years. The first four-year phase includes US$35 million in IDA funds and US$4 million from the
GEF. An Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument is being used to provide flexible, long-term
funding.
The CAP intends to establish and operationalize decentralized, participatory and transparent financing
mechanisms that empower poor communities to take control of their own development with the support
of their local govermnents. This approach reflects the response of the World Bank's Africa Region to the
Bank's corporate priority of "community-driven development" (CDD). It also reflects widespread
recognition among rural development professionals that decentralized, participatory approaches are much
more effective and sustainable than other approaches.
The Community Action Program aims at national coverage and its performance will have a significant
impact on the future of natural resource management in Niger. The funds provided by GEF will be "fully
blended" into the CAP but will be tracked separately for accounting purposes. The activities under the
CAP funded by GEF (the "project" for the purposes of this STAP Review and described below) are
based on appropriate scientific principles and up-to-date analysis fully consistent with the GEF's
Operational Program # 12, Integrated Ecosystem Management.
2)    Identification of the global environmental benefits and/or dravbacks of the project.
Niger is a very poor country, and its already degraded natural resource base does not bode well for the
future as the great majority of the population relies on agriculture and livestock production for food
security, income and employment. The CAP alone will be a significant program in Niger, but without the
GEF component it is extremely unrealistic to expect that poor people struggling with day-to-day
problems will have the "luxury" to focus their own resources or those provided by the CAP on achieving
long-term goals of sustainable natural resource management relevant to the global environmental. A key
challenge of "blending" the GEF's objectives related to global environmental benefits into a
community-driven development approach was that CDD must be demand-driven to be genuinely
participatory and sustainable. The CAP's Project Appraisal Document has met the challenge.
- 81 -



With GEF financing, the CAP will pro-actively promote "community-based integrated ecosystem
management" (CBIEM), defined for this project as "harmonized management of the cultivated areas,
natural rangelands and water resources in and around Nigerien communities by these communities in
order to maintain or recover a balance in the multiple functions of these natural resources." A key
project goal will be the maintenance or recovery of the condition of the natural resources in their capacity
as providers of essential functions (as areas for crops; as water and fodder for sedentary and
non-sedentary livestock, local and migratory wildlife; as well as household energy, food, medicinal
products, veterinary products, construction material, shelter, areas of cultural and social value, etc.). In
regard to global environmental benefits, the CBIEM activities are expected to significantly increase the
carbon storage capacity of the soils and vegetation, and to maintain/preserve globally valued biodiversity
and water resources.
3)     Project fit within the context of GEF goals, operational strategies, programme priorities
and relevant conventions.
The GEF funded project is fully blended into the CAP but fits well with the above criteria. The GEF
funded elements of the CAP are soundly designed, and they incorporate the principles (and are clearly
directed towards achieving the potential benefits) of Integrated Ecosystem Management set out in
Operational Program # 12. Economic and social factors are integrated into ecosystem management, and
the IEM systems at various levels are intended to be flexible and to incorporate lessons learned into
on-going and future activities. (Significantly, the design of the CAP is based on lessons already learned
in Niger from previous projects, pilot activities, and conclusions of poverty assessment field work.)
Participatory approaches are central to the project's approach to ecosystem management and sustainable
development. The project aims to develop an enabling policy environment, strengthen relevant
institutions, and make investments based on the principles of integrated ecosystem management.
4)     Regional context.
Niger is the poorest country in the Sahel region. Two-thirds of Niger's territory is classified as "Saharan
Zone," receiving less than 200 mm of annual rainfall. Only about 01% of the country receives more than
600mm of annual rainfall. In 1965, one quarter of Niger was arable; today only one-eighth is considered
arable. About 85% of Niger's population is squeezed into a corridor 100-150 kilometers wide north of
the border with Nigeria. Given the apparent downward trend in rainfall, perhaps no country is at greater
risk of desertification than Niger - a factor with significant regional implications. By slowing and
hopefully reversing the degradation of natural resources in Niger, the CB1EM activities supported by
GEF through the CAP aim to prevent increased pressure on the ecologically richer areas to the south of
Niger, thereby protecting globally important environmental assets in the wider West Africa region.
5)     Replicability of the project.
Depending on the project's performance, GEF will co-finance the first two of the CAP's four phases. If
the project is successful in developing effective and potentially sustainable community-based integrated
ecosystem management approaches and techniques, there would be clear scope to replicate these
approaches and techniques in other parts of Niger and neighboring countries. Through the CAP's close
coordination with the Africa Land and Water Initiative, best practices and lessons learned from the
project may well have an impact on natural resource management in other parts of Africa. Given the
need for long-term commitment to solving the problems, if the GEF supported elements of the CAP
prove successful the GEF may wish to reconsider its decision to limit its support to the CAP's first two
phases.
- 82 -



6)     (Anticipated Effectiveness and) Sustainability of the project.
When assessing sustainability, it is also useful to assess the likelihood of the project performing
effectively. The CAP will pro-actively promote the GEF funded CBIEM approach in the following ways
(the reviewer's comments are in italics):
(a)    Communities will be actively assisted to analyze the linkages between poverty reduction and the
benefits of CBIEM. Pilot activities in this regard did not sufficiently articulate these linkages, and the
PAD recommends adequately training or otherwise supporting the facilitators or local development
agents. Successfully overcoming this problem may well be important to achieving CBIEM objectives. In
regard to Community Support (Component 1), the effective involvement of all primary stakeholders in
CBIEM can be very challenging as there may well be conflicts of interest between and within various
groups and, as the PAD notes, Nigerien society is highly stratified around age, kinship and gender;
(b)    The project will emphasize support for the national decentralization process to create an enabling
institutional and legislative environment conducive to CBIEM. The GEF financed a study as part of
project preparation that, inter alia, highlighted the rights and interests of non-sedentary livestock holders
in natural resource tenure policies and discouraged cultivation in marginal lands. Both the general issues
related to decentralization and the specific issues highlighted in the study deserve considerable attention
if the project is to achieve its objectives. Effective devolution of the responsibility for NRM to local
governments and communities will be necessary for the CAP/CBIEM to function as intended, but
decentralization and devolution can be complicated and difficult processes. Additional supportfor the
decentralization process, beyond what will be made available by the CAP, may well be necessary to
enable the CAP/CBIEM to proceed as outlined in the PAD. This reviewer agrees with the conclusion
discussed in the PAD on page 22 that the CAP itself shouldfocus on creating demandfor
decentralization from the bottom up, but is concerned that the effective performance of the CAP/CBIEM
could be jeopardized if the major issues ofpublic sector reform are not adequately dealt with in good
time by the Government, CAS, PRSP, UNDP et al. Given existing conditions, there might be a risk that
what is currently intended under the CAP as a community based approach to NRM could be subverted
into a top down exercise. The participation of communities in the design, implementation and monitoring
of CBIEM activities is correctly viewed as critical to project success and sustainability.
(c)    The project will favor interventions in areas of environmental vulnerability and measure project
impact in these areas. One particularly noteworthy aspect of the project relevant to adaptive
management, project effectiveness and sustainability is the proposal to use two complementary M&E
systems, a national multi-sectoral system (the national poverty monitoring system) and a
community-level system. GEF funds will be used to incorporate information relevant to ecosystem
function at both M&E levels.
(d)    Communities will have access to a single Local Investment Fund which will represent blended
IDA/GEF financing. This is an interesting experiment that merits close monitoring. Two key points: (1)
highly skilled, well trained individuals will be needed at the interface with communities, (2) every effort
should be taken to identify communities with real (if latent) potential to successfully carry out
community-based activities. The very small proportion of rural Nigeriens, particularly women, who have
completed at least secondary school significantly reduces the pool of those available to carry out the
fairly complicated (even when simplified) requirements of the micro-project cycle. This situation makes
it more difficult to promote direct community involvement, and it increases the risk of elite capture at
various levels.
Secondary Issues
7)     Linkages to other focal areas.
The project is multi-focal, covering biodiversity conservation, international waters, and land degradation.
- 83 -



8)     Linkages to other programmes and action plans.
The Niger CAP has been developed (and anticipates being implemented) in coordination with a similar
CDD project in Burkina Faso that also involves an OP 12 component. In Niger there are a number of
relevant GEF supported projects that are on-going or being developed: (a) African Land and Water
Management Initiative, (b) Enhancing conservation of the critical network of wetlands required by
migratory water birds on the African/Eurasian flyways, (c) Desert margin program, (d) Reversing land
and water degradation trends in the River Niger basin, (e) Reversal of land and water degradation trends
in the Lake Chad basin ecosystem, (f) Integrated ecosystem management in the shared watersheds
between Nigeria and Niger, (g) Buffer zone of the W Park management project, (h) Niger-Algeria:
transboundary biodiversity conservation project, (I) strengthening of scientific and technical capacity
relating to sustainable use and conservation of the biodiversity reserves in arid West Africa, (j) Tenere
reserve biodiversity management project, (k) capacity needs assessment for the implementation of the
Niger national biodiversity strategy and action plan. These projects focus on specific areas of GEF
interest (biodiversity, international waters or mitigation of global warming) and/or are restricted to
certain geographic areas. In contrast, the Niger CAP is multi-focal and is intended to eventually cover
the entire country. For these reasons, the Niger CAP is complementary to the other GEF funded projects
in Niger.
9)     Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects.
The rationale for this GEF project is that it will add to the IDA-funded Niger Community Action
Program the inclusion of environmental factors of local, national, regional and global importance through
the introduction and promotion of a community-based integrated ecosystem approach. As explained
above, the rationale is sound. No damaging environmental effects have been identified.
10)    Stakeholder involvement.
The CAP will involve a large number of stakeholders from central government, local administration,
community groups, NGOs and other donors. Project preparation appears to have actively involved
stakeholders from the time of initial preparation. A considerable proportion of the PHRD grant was
earmarked for client consultation. The community based M&E methodology was developed and tested
in the field. A stakeholders' forum was reportedly held in late 2000 to publicize the project concept and
receive input from various stakeholders. Project design makes community participation a center piece of
project implementation and monitoring. GEF funds are to be used to identify and include various types
of primary stakeholders within comrnunities who have an interest in maintaining the various productive
functions of the natural resources.
11)    Capacity building.
The CAP clearly recognizes the need for and importance of capacity building and institutional
strengthening as central to project success. For example, the Community Support component aims to
introduce decentralized and participatory planning procedures and to build the capacity of
community-based organizations and other local institutions to design, implement and manage
micro-projects. Capacity will be strengthened to effectively carry out participatory appraisal and
planning to facilitate needs assessments, local development planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. GEF funds will be used, inter alia, to support community-based organizations to incorporate
into the participatory appraisals an analysis of the linkages between poverty reduction and harmonized
management of natural resources.
-84 -



12)   Innovativeness of the Project
The CAP is an innovative effort to "fully blend" GEF financing into an IDA-funded Community-Driven
Development program. This innovative, comprehensive and multi-sectoral approach well reflects the
spirit and intent of the GEF's recently established (April 2000) Operational Program #12.
Response to STAP review:
The review represents a general endorsement of the project in terms of rationale, design principles,
participatory approach, and innovativeness, and finds the approach consistent with the spirit and intent of
Operational Program #12.
The reviewer draws attention to several aspects of the project that must receive special attention as the
project design is finalized. These may be summarized as follows:
*   The reviewer notes that there is much work to be done in articulating the linkages between poverty
reduction and integrated ecosystem management as they exist at the community level. He correctly
points out that pilot activities did not provide adequate input on this problem. The project team will
therefore give more attention to this aspect in the design of component #1 prior to appraisal. The
lessons from IDA's Natural Resource Management project should be particularly illustrative.
*   Given the complexity and challenge of implementing decentralization, additional support, beyond the
CAP, may be needed to ensure that the objectives of component 2 are achieved. While the reviewer
agrees with our focus on capacity-building and creating demand for decentralization, the PAD should
better reflect the risks associated with this aspect.
*   The reviewer highlights the capacity constraints in Niger and the need for highly trained community
facilitators. If they cannot be found, true community involvement could be compromised and the
project benefits captured by elites. Again, this should be better reflected in the risks. The reviewer
apparently supports an approach where we target, in the first phase, communities that already
demonstrate sufficient capacity - thus increasing the likelihood of success.
*   The reviewer approves of our use of dual M&E system (at community and national levels). Prior to
appraisal, the project team will be more specific on what information related to ecosystem function is
to be collected and monitored, particularly during the first year.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 12
Incremental Cost Analysis
This annex summarizes or elaborates aspects of the PAD that relate to GEF financing in the CAP. It
begins with (a) a review of the environmental situation in Niger, (b) GEF's OP12 and Integrated
Ecosystem Management, (c) the baseline scenario without GEF financing, (d) the scenario with GEF
financing, (e) the incremental cost analysis, and (f) a listing of related GEF supported projects in the
sub-region.
a) The Environmental Situation in Niger
Based on rainfall pattems, Niger is subdivided in four main agro-ecological zones: i) a Saharan zone,
covering 65 percent of the territory, receives less than 200 mnm of rain annually, ii) a Sahelo-Saharan
zone for pastoral use with annual rainfall ranging between 200 and 300 mm, iii) a Sahelo-Soudanian zone
for agro-pastoral and agricultural use with annual rainfall ranging between 300 and 600 mm and iv) a
Soudanien zone, largely for agricultural use with more than 600 mm annual rainfall, covers only about
one percent of the national territory. As a result of both a decrease in annual rainfall during the last three
decades and an increasing exploitation of the natural resources due to population growth, the overall
productivity, biodiversity and soil cover of the vegetation in the country, covering both the natural
rangelands and the cultivated areas, is in decline. This, in turn, through a loss of water retention capacity
of vegetation, further accentuates the already reduced availability of surface waters, in particular during
the dry season.
On a local and national level, this situation negatively affects animal productivity and biodiversity and
human well-being through a reduced supply of water, fodder, food, household energy, medicinal and
veterinary products. While of global environmental interest, the actual losses pertaining to terrestrial
vegetation and its effects on surface water is leading to significant reduction of the carbon storage
capacity of the soils and vegetation, loss of biodiversity and decline in condition of waters. The latter
includes both intemational ones and ones of importance to globally valued migratory birds. Overall, one
can say that the trends in the environmental situation of the country is increasing the vulnerability of the
West African region as a whole to desertification through expansion of the Sahara desert. This poses a
potential threat to all the global environmental assets contained in this region.
A major continuing human-induced threat to the maintenance and or recovery of the present terrestrial
vegetation is the uncontrolled expansion of the cultivated areas in the two southem agro-pastoral
-ecological zones at the expense of natural rangelands without replacing the lost functions of these
resources and therefore increasing the pressure on the remaining areas. Maintenance and/or recovery of
these areas is of particular interest since the natural vegetation used to be very well equipped with
mechanisms of resistance and resilience to cope with the erratic and harsh climatic conditions in the area,
while the less diverse and mostly annual agricultural species are much more vulnerable to the climatic
forces. Unfortunately, the expansion of cultivated areas often includes marginal lands and banks or
surface waters which are particular ecologically sensitive sites within the ecosystems. With regard to the
socioeconomic values of the natural rangelands and the many surface water, or "mares, in the southem
agro-pastoral zones, these used to represent important dry season grazing and water areas for migrating
wildlife, presently mainly migratory birds, and livestock coming from the more northem pastoral zones.
Currently the seasonal movements of pastoral peoples and their herds have difficulties passing through
the agro-pastoral zones to reach the Nigerian markets, since access and availability of the grazing and
- 86 -



water resources in this area has been reduced. The reduced condition of the remaining natural rangelands
in these areas, has also seriously affected the availability of native food, fodder, household energy,
medicinal and veterinary products. The maintenance of the "mares" in the southern areas, also appear to
be threatened by unresolved conflicting interests and use for migratory birds, wildlife, livestock,
cropping and fishing.
Table 1 sumnmarizes the threats, root causes, and global implications of the current environmental
situation, and how it relates to proposed project components.
Table 1: Linkages between the environmental situation in Niger, global environmental issues, and
GEF-supported activities
Environmental Situation  Linkages with Global  Threats                  Root Causes                               Project Components of
and Impact on           Environmental Issues                                                                      Activities
Parameters of Poverty                                                                        _
Overall decrease in       I increased           Uncontrolled             *  Dedine In annual rainfaD              * Raising awareness and
productivity and         vutnerability of the   encroachment of         *   Over-exploitation of natural resources as  assisting the local
biodiversity of the      West African region    cultivated areas on         related to populabtion growth            communities in the design,
terrestrial vegetation   to desertification     natural rangelands,      *  Current insttutonal porlcy and legislative  Implementation and
affecting animal         through expansion of   including marginal lands    setting relating to environmental        management of
productivity and         the Sahara desert.     and banks of surface        govemance, such as relating to land      CBIEM-related
biodiversity, and human a Nationwide            waters, without replacing   tenure practices, aHow and/or encourage  microprojects
wellbeing through        decreasing carbon      the ecological and          uncontrolled extension of cultivated  a Support the Govemments
reduced sustainability of  storage capacity of  socioeconomic funcions      areas and over-exploitation of natural   decentrarization efforts in
the supply of water,     the biomass and        of the vegetation of these  rangelands.                             the removal of poicy and
fodder, food, household  loss of biodiversity   natural rangelands within  *  Umited awareness and coordination     legislative barners to the
energy, medicinal and    Dedine in condition    the cropping system. The    exist within and between various         application of CBIEM.
veterinary products.     of waters, induding    vegetation of these         stakeholders on local, national and      Support the establishment
intemational ones     natural rangelands are       global level regarding the Inkages      of a decentralized financial
and those of          Important barrers to land    between poverty reduction and the       mechanism and provide
importance to         and water erosion,           benefits of community-based integrated  financial resources to allow
globally valued       sources of carbon            ecosystem management (CBIEM).           for the implementation of
migratory birds.      sequestration and            CBIEM, as defined under this project,   CBIEM- related
providers of fodder, food,  alms to harmonize the management of      micro-project.
household energy,           cultivated areas and natural rangelands  *  Support the establishment
medidnal products,          through supporting the preservation      of two complementary M&E
veterinary products,        and/or recovery of the multiple function  systems, a national
construction material and   of the naturel rangelands, while, where  muti-sectoral and a
shelter.                    applicable, Incorporating some of these  community-particpatory
funcions into the existing cropping      one, to appraise linkages
systems.                                 between poverty and the
*  On the short term, financial resources   conditions of ecosystems.
are lacking on local and national level to
allow for the promotion and support of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  CBIEM .
b) Operational Program #12 (OP12) of the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
GEF's OP 12, formulated in April 2000, promotes Integrated Ecosystem Management (IEM). IEM
provides a comprehensive framework to manage natural systems across sectors and administrative
boundaries in the context of sustainable development, and facilitates intersectoral and participatory
approaches to NRM on an ecosystem scale. EEM differs from conventional Natural Resource
Management approaches mainly in its emphasis on the ecological system and the linkages within the
system between ecological, economic, and social factors. IEM also places emphasis on common pool
resources, such as rangelands, as opposed to privately managed cultivated areas. Within the context of
the CAP, IEM will be implemented mainly at the community level, and is thus referred to as
Community-based Integrated Ecosystem Management (CBIEM). In its holistic approach, OP12 brings
synergy between three GEF focal areas (biodiversity, climate change, and international waters) and land
- 87 -



degradation. Thus, eligible activities for GEF financing include investment in soil and water
conservation, and management of forests, watersheds, and wetlands. GEF cannot finance activities
related to, inter alia, introduction of alien species, forest plantations or monoculture, or establishment of
agricultural systems that move communities to marginal lands. GEF will also finance technical assistance
(for surveys, policy reforms, capacity-building, etc) and targetted research that promotes LEM. A
preliminary and inexhaustive list of type of comrnunity-microprojects illegible for GEF co-financing is
given in Table 2.
Table 2: Partial listing of community microprojects eligible for
GEF cofinancing in the CAP
Community-participatory       * Design of natural resources use plan for the community territory in context of the functioning
awareness raising activiies      of the local, national and global ecosystems.
* Listing of function of native species of particular human and/or animal use -such as for food,
fodder, medicinal, veterinary and household energy - and those of use as barrers against
wind and/or water erosion, while indicating those of which the producbivity is declining.
* Appraisal of degree of importance of these native species in the identified uses for humans
and/or animals.
Management of Natural         * Identification and protection of marginal lands against cultivation with annual crops.
Rangelands                    * Allocafion, maintenance and respect of livestock corridors for nonresident livestock holders.
* Protection and/or recovery of degraded lands.
* Identification and protection and/or recovery of declining native plant species and/or habitats
or portions of the community rangelands of particular human, animal or anti-erosive use.
* Active implementation of anti-erosive measures.
Management of Waters          * Maintenance and/or recovery of ripahan vegetation.
* Identification and protection and/or recovery of declining natve plans species and/or habitats
or portions of riparian vegetation of particular human, animal or anti-erosive use.
* Allocation, maintenance and respectation of livestock watering areas.
Management of Cultvated Land  * Take marginal lands under cultivaton with annual crops out of production and/or recover.
* Diversify cropping system through the introduction of native natural rangelands species of
particular human, animal and/or anti-erosive use.
* Allocate portion of cultivated land to production of fodder, with either native or introduced with
mixed leguminous and/or perennial species
* Maintain diversity in traditional crop species
c) Baseline Scenario
GEF finances incremental costs for technical assistance, investments, financial services and targetted
research. These incremental costs may be viewed by comparing the baseline scenario (the IDA-financed
CAP without GEF involvement), and GEF scenarios. Under the baseline, the project would aim to reduce
poverty through empowering communities to prioritize, design, and implement micro-projects, facilitated
by local authorities and NGOs. Only minor attention would be given to assist the communities in
analyzing the linkages between poverty reduction and natural resources management in general and of
integrated ecosystem management in particular. The institutional and legislative framework relating to
environmental govemance would continue to allow uncontrolled expansion of cultivated areas, including
the cultivation of marginal lands and banks or surface waters, at the expense of the natural rangelands
and availability and accessibility of surface waters. No nation-wide and community-participatory
monitoring and evaluation systems would be establish to guide geographic upscaling of the poverty
activities within the context of integrated ecosystem management and no targetted financial support
would be given to encourage the development of micro-activities related to natural resources
management in general or to integrated ecosystem management in particular. With this approach, it is
- 88 -



expected that only a small share of the CAP's local investment funds would be used for CBEEM since
similar multi-sectoral, CDD, projects in the region show that priority issues for communities usually
address short-term needs, i.e. the need for food security during droughts as through the establishment of
cereal banks and income generating activities. As is, the current community-based natural resource
management efforts in the region, tend to give priority to the maintenance and/or recovery of the
cultivated areas without much attention for incorporation of lost functions of the rangelands within the
cropping system. Simultaneous maintenance and recovery of the rangelands, including marginal lands
and banks of and surface waters would be given only minor and random attention. As a result, under the
baseline scenario, at least on the short term, further degradation of the land and water resources will take
place, decreasing the local and national availability of water, fodder, food, household energy, medicinal
and veterinary products while increasing the vulnerability of the West African region to desertification
through expansion of the Sahara desert.
d) GEF Scenario
Under the GEF scenario - the IDA-financed CAP with co-financing by GEF- the global environmental
objective of the CAP is to promote community-based integrated management of the mainly arid and
semi-arid (agro)ecosystems in Niger as a means to combat land and water degradation in West Africa,
while fostering multiple global environmental benefits. CBIEM is defined for this project as harmonized
management by communities of the cultivated areas, natural rangelands, and water resources in and
around Nigerien communities by these communities in order to maintain or recover a balance in the
multiple functions of these natural resources as seen from a local, national and global ecosystem
perspectives. More concretely, for this Sahelian country, seeking this balance will involve the
maintenance or recovery of the condition of the natural resources of ecosystems as a whole as they
function as providers of cropping areas, water and fodder for sedentary and non-sedentary livestock and
local and migratory wildlife, household energy, food, medicinal products, veterinary products,
construction material, shelter, areas of cultural and social value, barriers to land and water degradation
and as sources of carbon sequestration and biodiversity. Over the CAP's lifetime, CBIEM, through
holistic management of the land and water resources, is expected to significantly enhance the carbon
storage capacity of the soils and vegetation, to preserve globally-valued biodiversity and to maintain the
condition of international waters in the country. The numerous scattered lakes in Niger are of importance
to migratory birds while some of the international water bodies, such as the river Niger and the Lake
Chad Basin, also represent areas of relative high biodiversity. Since further degradation of the land and
water resources in Niger would accelerate the expansion of the Sahara desert and result in increased
pressure on the ecologically richer areas to the south, the longer term impact of the project is expected to
contribute to the preservation of the many globally important environmental assets encompassed in this
region (Table 1).
The root causes behind the lack of community-based integrated ecosystem management (CBIEM) in the
country are: i) lack of awareness relating to the function and linkages between different subcomponents
of ecosystems, such as the cultivated areas, the natural rangelands and water resources, and their role in
poverty reduction, ii) lack of human capacity and methodologies to analyze and monitor these roles and
linkages, iii) lack of involvement of all the different type of stakeholders, including the vulnerable ones,
in natural resources management planning and implementation, iv) lack of institutional and legislative
backing conducive to integrated ecosystem management, such as the current land and water resources
tenure practices, and v) lack of technologies and financial resources to apply integrated ecosystem
management
The project's approach relies on removing barriers for successful mainstreaming of CBIEM through
identifying constraints, indicating and demonstrating solutions, capacity building, enhancement of the
- 89 -



information base for sound decision-making, policy development, and micro-investment. The global
environmental objectives will be blended and realized through each of the five project activity
components, which promote CBIEM in the following ways:
*   Component 1: Community support: The project will proactively support (i) community-based
organizations (CBOs) in the incorporation in the participatory appraisal of the analysis of the
linkages between poverty reduction and harmonized management of the natural resources relating to
water availability, food production and nutritional value, health care and availability of traditional
household energy, (ii) the identification and inclusion of the various types of primary stakeholders
within communities having interest in the maintenance of the various type of production functions of
the natural resources (such as sedentary and non-sedentary livestock holders; croppers; collectors of
household products such as food, water and energy; fishermen; hunters and traditional healers and
nature conservationists) and (iii) the ability of the CBOs and communities to design and implement
relevant micro-projects related to CBIEM.
*   Component 2: Local governance support: In support of the Governments decentralization efforts,
GEF funds will be earmarked to support the Secretariat of the Rural Code in the development of a
national and local environmental governance framework promoting CBIEM such as to discourage
cultivation of marginal lands and banks of surface waters and resolve conflicting interests and use of
surface waters. For example, through the establishment of natural resources tenure and use policies
including the definition of the nature, composition and authority of local natural resources
committees with inclusion of representatives of various socio-economic and occupational levels. The
component will primarily finance targetted studies and capacity-building and awareness-building
activities.
* Component 3: Local Investment Fund: Half of the available GEF funds will be blended with the IDA
funds in this component, representing about eight percent of component financing. To promote and
support in particular the public and global good nature of CBIEM related activities, the proportional
community contribution required will be significantly lower for CBIEM related activities, such as
those indicated in Table 2.
*   Component 4: Poverty monitoring: GEF will contribute to the cross-sectoral national poverty
monitoring systems of the CAP providing feed back for rapid program adaptation through ensuring
the incorporation of socio-economic and natural resources data relating to the use and condition of
the ecosystems in their multiple function seen, from a local, national and regionalUglobal perspective.
Furthermore, local capacity will be developed to enable communities to participate in the
development and implementation of this system, in conjunction with the larger, multi-sectoral CAP
community-participatory M&E system. Baseline data, already collected in the preparation phase, will
be completed in the first year of implementation, to provide a benchmark on which to measure
progress.
*   Component 5: Project management: GEF will support project coordination, field services, financial
management and establishment of a communication program there where it concerns the
management of the support to CBIEM related activities. In addition, the GEF funds would also
support knowledge dissemination activities with a regional/global reach, e.g. as relating to the
developments of a similar project in progress in Burkina Faso and the Africa Land and Water
Initiative.
The IDA-grant supported activities will benefit from the GEF-supported activities through its immediate
support to longer-term local, national and global environmental concern accelerating the longer term
- 90 -



sustainability of the poverty reduction effort, which otherwise would only be addressed after the shorter
term basic needs would be fulfilled. At that point the further degraded natural resources would be harder
to recover and maintain. Within this context, reflecting the reality that the economic and financial
situation of Niger is such that it barely allows to provide for the basic local needs, is the justification for
allocating part of the GEF resources to natural resources management activities that normally should be
considered as of direct national interest
Other GEF-supported initiative in the country, on-going or under development, tend to focus on specific
focal areas of interest as distinguished by GEF- biodiversity, condition of international waters, or global
warming mitigation- and/or are restricted to certain geographic areas, nature reserves or ecosystems. The
nation-wide CAP, classified as a so-called multiple focal area project, will therefore be complementary to
all other projects. Furthermore, through its close coordination with the Africa Land and Water Initiative,
the best practices and lessons learned from this project will have an impact on the natural resources
management in Africa as a whole.
d) Incremental Cost Analysis
The incremental costs are calculated as the difference between the GEF alternative scenario and the CAP
baseline scenario. The results are presented in the matrix below.
91-



Table 3: Incremental cost matrix for GEF funding
Component   Cost          Cost       Domestic Benefit                                Global Benefit
Category      USS M
1. Community     Baseline      3.0       Increasad capacity of communifies to design and  Modest improvement in the ability of communibies to
Support                                  implement oommunity-based natural resources     design and implement natural resources management
management actiities which will primarily Improve the  activites which may lead to minor global environmental
management of the cutvated areas.               benefits.
GEF           3.5       Significant capacdy of communities developed to design  Significant capacdy of communities developed to design
Altemative              CBIEM micro-projects leading to ecological sustainability  CBIEM micro-projects, leading to significant conservation
and nalional socio-economic equity and growth.  of global environmenlal assets.
Incremental   0.5
2. Local         Baseline      3.35       Capacdty of local govemment and regional authorites  Modest improvements in the ability of local govemments
Govemance                                 strengthened to support decentralized natural resources  and administrations to support communities in the
Support                                   management which would mainly improve the       management of natural resources, mostiy pertaining to
management of the cultivated areas.            the cultivated areas, which may lead to minor global
environmental benefits.
GEF           3.75       Capacity of local govemment and regional authorities  Substantial improvement in the ability of central and local
Altemative               strengthened to support decentrarized integrated  govemments to support decentralized integrated
ecosystem management leading to ecological      ecosystem management leading to significant global
sustainability and national socio-economic equity and  environmental benefits.
growth.
Incremental   0.4
3. Local         Baseline      25.5       A limited number of micro-investments relating to natural  Possibly a very limited number of micro-investments
Investment Fund                           resources management planned and implemented    planned and Implemented relating to natural resources
locally,                                        management leading to minor global environmental
benefits.
GEF           26.6      A significant number of CBIEM-related micro-projects  Substantial number of CBIEM-related micro-investments
Altemative              implemented supporting ecological sustainabitty and  implemented leading to significant global environmental
national socio-economic equity and growth.      benefits.
Incremental   2.1
4. Poverty       Baseline      4.49       Cross-sectoral M&E system in place assessing linkages  Modest assessment tool established to guide natural
Monitodng                                 between poverty and land degradation, primadly relating  resources management generating minor global
to the cropping areas, to guide natural resources  environmental benefits.
management.
GEF           4.99      Cross-sectoral M&E system in place assessing linkages  Substantial assessment tool established to guide
Alternative             between poverty and the condition of ecosystems as a  integrated ecosystem management leading to significant
whole, to guide integrated ecosystem management  global environmental benefits.
respecting national sodo-economic and ecological
interests.
Incremental   0.5
5. Project       Baseline      4.49       Efficient and capable staff in place to disseminate  Natural resources management, mainly pertaining to the
management                                knowtedge and manage issues related to natural  cultivated areas, on local and national level fadlitated
resources management, mainly pertaining to the  which may lead to minor global environmental benefits.
cultivated areas, on local and natlonal level.
GEF           4.99      Effident and capable staff in place to disseminate  Integrated ecosystem management on local, national and
Altemative              knowledge and manage issues related to integrated  regional/global level faclitated leading to significant
ecosystem management on local, national and     global environmental benefits.
regional/global level.
Incremental   0.5
TOTALS           Baseline      39.83
GEF           43.83
Altemative
Incremental   4.0
- 92 -



e) Major related GEFsupported programs in the nation
The following list represents GEF supported relevant on-going projects and projects under development
in Niger.
*   African Land and Water Management Initiative: This Sub-Saharan Africa wide program, jointly
implemented by all GEF implementing agencies (UNDP, UNEP and the World Bank) under the
leadership of the World Bank, represents a global partnership which intends to contribute to food
security and income generation through attaining global environmental benefits by a more
sustainable use of the natural resources in Africa. For the first demonstration phase of the project,
four initial sites for interventions were identified by the African Sub-Regional Organizations. These
sites are Madagascar, the Lirnpopo River Basin (SADC), the Lake Chad Basin, Niger (CILSS), and
the Atbara-Angereb Watersheds in Ethiopia (IGAD). The interventions in Niger strengthen the
activities relating to community-based integrated ecosystem management (CBREM) as incorporated
in the underlying proposed CAP and the activities being developed for Niger within the below
mentioned Lake Chad Basin project.
*   Enhancing conservation of the critical network of wetlands required by migratory water birds on the
African/Eurasian flyways: This regional program, implemented by UNEP, aims to improve the
conservation status of African/Eurasian migratory waterbirds, by enhancing and coordinating the
measures taken by GEF-eligible countries to conserve the critical network of wetland areas that these
birds require to complete their annual migratory cycle. The 11 participating countries are: Estonia,
Hungary, Lithuania, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, the Gambia, South Africa, Tanzania and
Turkey. In Niger, the project promotes the sustainable use of the Kokorou and Namga wetlands,
lying 10 km apart approximately 150 km NW of Niamey, through the development of a community
participatory management plan.
*   Desert Margin Program. This regional program, being prepared by UNEP and UNDP, aims to
conserve globally important biodiversity by halting land degradation in three African regions
immediately threatened by desertification. The regions concerned are Western Africa (Burkina Faso,
Mali, Niger and Senegal), Eastern Africa (Kenya) and Southern Africa (South Africa, Botswana,
Namibia and Zimbabwe). On a secondary plan, this program would also preserve carbon sinks.
*   Reversing Land and Water Degradation Trends in the River Niger Basin: This program,
implemented by UNDP and the World Bank, aims to secure sustainable socio-economic development
of the 9 riparian countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Mali, Niger,
Nigeria and Chad) while respecting the environment and the maintenance of the condition of this
international water. During the current first phase of the project, a transboundary diagnostic analysis
is being developed fro the five countries that share the main stem of the Niger River (Benin, Guinea,
Mali, Niger and Nigeria).
*   Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem: This project,
implemented by UNDP and the World Bank, aims to achieve global environmental benefits through
concerted management of the naturally integrated land and water resources of the Lake Chad Basin
involving 5 countries (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Niger and Nigeria). Presently, six
pilot projects within the Lake Chad Basin are being developed, three of which entail the participation
of Niger: (i) Piloting adaptive strategies to mitigate land and water degradation on the northern
margin of Lake Chad (Chad and Niger), (ii) Lake Chad shoreline management plan definition
(Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria), and iii) Integrated Wetland Management in the
Komadougou-Yobe Basin (Nigeria and Niger).
- 93 -



*   Integrated Ecosystem Management in shared Watersheds between Nigeria and Niger: This project,
implemented by UNEP and UNDP, aims to secure multiple global environmental benefits by
developing and implementing community-based integrated ecosystem management plans for the
shared watersheds along the Niger-Nigeria border.
*   Buffer zone of the WPark Management Project: This project, being prepared by UNDP, supports
community-based sustainable use and conservation of the biodiversity of the wildlife reserves of the
W Park in Niger, the Arly Park in Burkina Faso and the Pendjari Park in Benin.
*   Niger-Algeria: Transboundary Biodiversity Conservation Project: This project, being prepared by
UNEP, aims to conserve biodiversity in the transboundary area between Niger and Algeria.
*   Strengthening ofscientific and technical capacity relating to a sustainable use and conservation of
the biodiversity reserves in arid West Africa: This project, implemented by UNEP, supports the
sustainable use and conservation of the six savanna type Biosphere Reserves in West Africa. Niger
comprises two Biosphere Reserves, the "W" National Park and the Air and Tenere Reserve.
*   Tenere Reserve Biodiversity Management Project: Prepared by UNDP, the first phase of this project
aims to develop a decentralized community-based management system of the Tenere Reserve.
* Capacity needs Assessment for the implementation of the Niger National Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan: This project, being prepared by UNEP and UNDP, identifies the needs to strengthen the
capacity in the areas of: biodiversity conservation in situ and ex situ, taxonomy, preservation of
traditional knowledge and biodiversity knowledge management in the context of CHM.
These projects tend to focus on specific focal areas of interest as distinguished by GEF- biodiversity,
condition of international waters, or global warming mitigation- and/or are restricted to certain
geographic areas, nature reserves or ecosystems. The nation-wide CAP, classified as a so-called multiple
focal area project, will therefore be complementary to all other projects. Furthermore, through its close
coordination with the Africa Land and Water Initiative, the best practices and lessons learned from this
project will have an impact on the natural resources management in Africa as a whole.
-94 -



Additional Annex 13: Institutional Arrangements
NIGER: Community Action Program
(This annex supports the text in section E on financial and institutional arrangements)
Figure 1: Global institutional framework
Central                                            Coordination
*fo nInfonnation
inistration                                           Unit
\   / <                                \\ ~~~~~~     ~~(CCN) /
Infounation  Inmo
Contraalizt
Infmation  DpInforration
Co   t   Admimstrationrl
State                                            Coordinatio
Techilical                                              Unit
Support      A     Partial    Infr ation     /          <(CCR)X
X   Paymnent           Fund Trase 
\  Contract  \            /Agremn
SuppoS upporest
Cornmunities                  Con tact
(Leader)
/~~~~ 95 X-
Payment  /             \       Advices
<~~ / Support / \ ~~~~~~Request 
\        ~~~~Financing  |       */     Oeraltor   \
Private service                    Financing 
Supr                  Requlest  2\                 tA   C
- 95 -



Figure 2: Project institutional framework
- - - -CAP-Implicated Ministry Representative
Agr. Development                        High Commission for
Ministry              Other         Adm. Reform and Dec.
(MAD)                                  (HCRA/D)
Guardianship  Steering Committee           Sup ort
(CP)
National
Coordination Unit
(CCN)
Regional
Coordination Units
(CCRs)
Financial Agreement
Commune                    Communities
Contracts                   Contracts
Service providers
- 96 -



Figure 3: Financial flows
Matching         Program Account Washington|
Contribution
(State)            IDA          GEF
Tran sfer
Project account    Special account
Niamey             Niamney
Regional Special
Sub Account
Alternative  IK
Payments   aymnents-  Trnsfe   Transfers
Community Account
_Pyments
Services providers, suppliers, etc.
-97 -



Additional Annex 14 Executive Summary of Social Impact Assessment
NIGER: Community Action Program
I. Introduction and Key Operational Findings
The Niger PAC/CDD project has undertaken a Local Level Institutions (LLIs) study to better understand
how LLIs function within local societies of Niger. With this information in hand, the Project will be able
to capitalize upon existing internal capacity to build greater program sustainability. The LLI study, based
on qualitative/participatory inquiries with approximately 60+ villages in five different provinces of
Niger and more than 1188 quantitative Household Surveys randomly selected from these same villages,
also serves as a tool for Social Assessment. This Social Assessment paper summarizes key operational
findings, which if utilized, will increase inclusion, sustainability, and more effective poverty reduction
and equitable development. (Etude sur les Institutions Locales: Decentralization et Pauvrete au Niger,
by Dr. A. Sayo, with regional team, CARE Niger) Draft report for PAC Niger, March, 2002.) The key
findings, to be discussed below, include the following:
*   Specific indigenous institutions are highly preferred by local communities over government, project,
or NGO introduced-organizations.
* Participation in these identified LLIs is significantly higher, more inclusive than in externally
introduced organizations, and seem to have a significant impact on poverty reduction
*   Specific indigenous institutions, found country-wide, have been identified as effective for PAC/CDD
utilization in management of project funds allocated to communities (FIL), internal M&E, and
possibly to mitigate negative environmental effects.
Traditionally, LLIs have been a blind spot for international development agencies and national
governments. Aid, when it moves out of the capital city, normally goes directly to local communities or
local governments, with no stops in between. But this route ignores the endogenous weave of local
institutions that traditionally encircle and support local communities. But now that decentralized
governments are being urged to join rural people in creating sustainable and accountable local
development, LLI institutions are now regarded as potential resource points for effective and internalized
poverty reduction.
The first LLI study was undertaken in Burkina Faso in 1998-99, where the mix of quantitative and
qualitative data was able to provide unique insights into local level organization and results of local level
activities. Here, certain high-performing local level institutions were found to contribute to reduced
levels of poverty and inequality at the local level. The structure of these high-performing local
organizations means they can exist in a number of African countries because they depend more on
internal participation rather than on any one country's cultural assets. (See Can Local Institutions
Reduce Poverty? Rural Decentralization in Burkina Faso, by Donnelly-Roark, Ouedraogo, and Ye,
World Bank Policy Research Working Paper Series, #2677, 2001.
Local level institutions incorporate many different kinds of indigenous organizations and functions.
Because LLIs create the rules by which organizations operate and interact, they become, over time, the
repository of indigenous knowledge systems and the foundation by which local society organizes itself.
These rules are also continually and dynamically updated, sometimes in diverse and contested ways.
LLIs include: village level governance; accepted methods of community resource mobilization; social
and mutual aid societies; security arrangements; asset management; conflict resolution councils;
management committees for infrastructure and sector services; conflict and legal adjudication
committees; livestock and agricultural production cooperatives; tontines and savings federations;
- 98 -



religious associations; and lineage associations among others (Donnelly-Roark et al, 2001, p.3)
The Niger data set features, as noted earlier, participatory and qualitative inquiry within 60 villages in
five regions, plus quantitative household surveys covering 1188 households from the 60 villages. . The
size of the sample should allow final results to be reliably extrapolated by the project to other areas of
country. The five provinces selected--Diffa, Maradi, Agadez, Tillaberi, and Dosso-each include two
different zones where villages and households were selected. Each of the provinces were selected to
reflect diversity of the population, diversity agro-ecological zones, along with socio-cultural and
socio-political diversity and prior historical experience. (Sayo, p. 8)
II. Historical Contexts
Neither democratization nor effective decentralization have been easily attainable in Niger. Over the past
forty years, the various political regimes have ranged from military to democratic. Despite these
differences, all have tended to utilize the state bureaucracy--essentially an urban institution--as a tool to
dole out patronage and hold control.
Tracing the evolution of political parties is an effective means of understanding efforts at
democratization. They include:
1946-1959. First era of multi-partyism was characterized by political planming to combat colonialism.
1959-1974. PPN-RDA was the only political party on the scene. Although seen as democratic, it was in
reality a facade as all contradictory debate was seen as treasonable to the nation.
1974-1989. A military coup suspended the National Assembly, and all democratic structures were
suppressed.
1989-1990. MNSD, party of the state was created
1990-present. Restoration of mult-partyism. Civil society leaders from the Unions and schools have
been leaders. But during this time there have been four republics, two coups, two military regimes, and
two armed rebellions in the north and east of the country.
Obviously, Niger has a considerable way to go to establish a regime that features individual rights, along
with liberty of expression and association. Recent efforts at democratic regimes have illustrated little
responsibility to citizens, but also demand little of its people in terms of laws and obligations. One
observer concludes that while western democratic institutions are not absolutely critical for some level of
democracy to emerge, enduring 'classic consultations' have now lost their popular credibility and are
therefore no longer sufficient to maintain the current fragile democratic gains recently made.
It is for this reason that moves towards political decentralization with its accompanying decentralization
of power are viewed positively in many quarters. It is hoped that the introduction of rural populations
and their institutions can break the patronage grip that the state bureaucracy continues to wield. But for
this to come about, it will be essential that each level of decentralization is accompanied by recognition
and utilization of strong community organizations. (Sayo, pp. 11-14)
All of this takes place in one of the poorest countries of the world. A 1993 national Household Survey
indicates that 63% of the population is poor, and 34% of this group is extremely poor. Rural poverty is
more intense than urban poverty. Indicators suggest that the intensity of poverty has increased over the
past seven years.
III. LLIs are Preferred and Effective
99 -



The LLI study illustrates that those institutions seen as indigenous by local communities are strongly
preferred, and certain types of these institutions are more effectively managed. These findings have
substantial implications for the design of the PAC/CDD, the first objective of which is to build the
capacity of Niger's rural communities to design, implement, and manage micro projects.
The LLI study indicates that there is a remarkable richness of local level institutions that operate within
and among villages. The following typology, developed as a result of the LLI study, illustrates type,
interaction between 'modem' and 'traditional', as well as function of these LLIs. The percentage
indicates the number of households that have participated in this category during the past year. (A total
of 2133 organizations were named, and were placed in 33 categories serving diverse organizational
needs.)
*   Administrative and political LLIs. (25%) These include all aspects of the chieftancy (a few are
women); council of elders (some include women); leaders of groups, council for local development,
etc.
*   Productivity and private sector LLIs (15%) These include all production organizations for
individual households: cooperatives, and socio-professional organizations for individual household
members.
*   Technical LLI's. (15%) These include maintenance of infrastructure installations and maintenance
of natural resource environments. Organizations include little known groups as: Garso, Sarkin
Noma, Maidagi, Maidawa, and Sorko.
*   'Assurance' LLIs. (45%) These include organizations focused on equitable development and, in
difficult times, collective economic assistance. Organizations include such little known
organizations as Fada, tontines/MMD, Club Zabin Sonka, and Kungiya Waalde.
These local level institutions make up the cohesive framework within which communities maintain and
perpetuate themselves. The first two categories--a total of 40%-are made up of organizations either
relatively well-known from the traditional sector, or institutions that have been introduced by
governments or development agencies. But the two categories that have the most sizeable level of
participation--a total of 60%---formulate the social and collective economic networks which perform
well, are preferred by local residents, and yet relatively unknown beyond rural and national borders.
These LLIs have two noteworthy aspects that seem to be somewhat unique to Niger. The first is that
popular indigenous institutions seem to spread relatively fast across the country. In different provinces
popular indigenous institutions may have different names, but are recognized to serve the same function.
For example, Fada and Club Zabin Sonka are both youth organizations that are organized to serve the
community, motivate effective community actions, and monitor effectiveness of such actions. They are
found across the country under different names.
The second noteworthy aspect is how institutions are designated as either 'internal', or coming from the
outside. Internal or indigenous institutions were clearly defined as preferred by local people, while
institutions believed to be imported from the outside by the government or development agencies were
seen as peripheral or marginal. On the other hand, institutions or methods of organization that fit the
cultural scene-even when they originally come from the outside-are quickly adopted and defined as
intemal or local. For example, the tontine now known as MMD (Women Moving Forward) was
originally introduced by several different donor organizations. However, it is now identified across the
country as an 'intemal', local, and highly preferred organization. (Sayo, pp. 40-57)
Analysis is ongoing to better understand how these local level institutions impact on poverty reduction at
the community level. Preliminary analysis does indicate a positive relationship, as illustrated in Table 1.
- 100 -



Table 1. Poverty Incidence vs. LLI performance
Non-Poor              Poor               Very Vulnerable
Villages with low     12 %                 21 %                65 %
performing LLIs
Villages with medium   13 %                27 %                60 %
performing LLIs
Villages with high     19 %                28 %                53 %
performing LLIs
IV. LLIs Make Local Government More Effective
Donor programs that recognize LLIs are rare, but one is currently operating in Niger as a pilot for
Decentralization, and illustrates the benefits of formalizing LLI recognition. Diffa, one of the five
provinces selected for the LLI study is relatively prosperous overall, but its two departments included in
the study show striking contrasts. In the surveyed department of Maine the LLI participation rate is 20%,
while in N'Guigni it is 87%. The poverty rate in Maine is 35% while in N'guigmi it is only 8%.
Moreover, the expenditure per capita in N'guigmni is more than double that of Maine, while the inequality
is just marginally lower. This demonstrates that N'guigmi has established a fairly equitable growth path
that leads to a low poverty level.
The only clear difference between the two departments is the operation of the UNDP sponsored
Decentralization project--PADL-N-in N'guigmi. The objective of this project is to model and practice
good governance. For this they established procedures and mechanisms for greater accountability,
transparence, and citizen participation. Several of these procedures and mechanisms (particularly in the
CLD committee that was established to advise the elected officials), tap directly into the LLIs discussed
in the previous section.
The Niger LLI analysis concludes that effective decentralization will be achieved only if its procedures
are explicitly linked to existing and respected indigenous institutions, and only if the representatives
elected are actually trained in how best to serve their communities, and not just the national political
parties. Inclusion of preferred local level institutions in local government. seems therefore to play a key
role in effective decentralization.
A second contribution that attention to LLIs can bring to local government is utilization of the grappe
--or group of five to eight small villages--as the focus for the project (or in time local government)
interventions. The grappe is defined as: 'a group of small villages or hamlets who share a community
life'. Use of the grappe allows all of the relevant LLIs to be included, and at the same time makes the
number of local groupings to be included more manageable. LLI analysis defined seven criteria for all
three ecological zones that effectively defined grappes:
* shared historical lines (100% of cases)
*   shared parental lines (100% of cases)
*   shared religion [e.g. mosque on Friday] (100% of cases)
*   distance between communities (80% of cases)
*   existence of a commercial market (80% of cases)
*   existence of shared socio-economic infrastructure (80% of cases
- 101 -



* social cohesion ( 60% of cases: Agadez, Diffa, and Tillaberry)
Use of these six to seven elements should allow an effective definition of grappes in departments and
provinces.
V.     LLI Utilization Can Contribute to PAC/CDD Effectiveness.
There are two and perhaps three categories of local level or indigenous institutions currently operating
in Niger, that if systematically utilized, can significantly contribute to PAC/CDD effectiveness and
long-term sustainability for equitable growth and poverty reduction. The first is in the area of
management of Local Investment Funds. Rather than setting up an external, project related institution,
there is the option to use MMD, a popular tontine found throughout the country ( 22,000 credit unions
established in villages throughout Niger). Still primarily women-led, but now with branches for all
groups, this indigenous institution offers the possibility of effective allocation and management of local
investment funds that is internalized at the community level, but effectively connected, over time, to
local government. The risks are apparent in terms of scaling-up, but the opportunities for long-term
sustainability and internal effectiveness definitively outweigh the risks according the LLI analysis.
The second group of LLIs to be considered are those that can perform the functions of monitoring and
evaluation for PAC/CDD. As mentioned earlier, Fada and Club Zabin Sonka as well as 'samaria,
dambo, tsarintche', etc are youth organizations organized to serve the community, motivate effective
community actions, and monitor Effectiveness of such actions. They are found across the country under
different names. As such they could serve to internalize project M&E functions at the local level, but
also allow use of M&E results at project and local government levels. It should be noted that these
groups include the very poor, but are looked upon by communities as energizers for collective activity.
Finally, a number of indigenous institutions dedicated to natural resource and environmental
sustainability were identified. These organizations are usually ethnic specific and clearly aligned with
spiritual values of the cornmunity. It would be an interesting initiative to associate these with the
environmental safeguards required at the project level.
In summary, substantial local level and indigenous institutions are active at the local level. They are
clearly preferred by communities, and those that are well organized seem to have (investigation ongoing)
clear and positive impacts on reduction of poverty. For sustainable success, the PAC/CDD project
should utilize these institutions to their upmost.
- 102-



Additional Annex 15 Gender profile for Niger
NIGER: Community Action Program
GDP per capita, $PPP
120
Adults living without                     Gender gap in primary school
HIV/AIDS    8   0      80                     enrollnent
40
Access to improved water              XGender gap in adult Iitery
soureceGne                                             a nautltrc
Lifexpectancy at birth  \> Representation of women in
Life expectancy at birth          /                parliament
Percent of adequately nourished
-    SSA    -  Niger             children
Note: This figure indicates that Niger's GDP is only about 50 percent of the SSA avrage. The country ranks above the
SSA average with respect to the access to improved water sources and in the number of people living without
AIDS/HIV. Niger has a lower number of adequately nourished children and a life expectancy consistent with the SSA
average. With respect to the gender disaggregated data for education, literacy and the representation of women in
parliament Niger has a gender gap that is significantly greater than the SSA averages.
Technical notes: this spider web is constructed to show where the country is in relation to the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)
average in the aspects of economic development, health and education. The SSA average was normalized to 100. The
indicators were constructed in a way that a higher magnitude of an indicator indicates a higher level of development.
To achieve this consistency, we inverted the percent of malnourished children and the HIV/AID S prevalence to percent
of children being adequately nourished and adult living without HIV/AIDS, respectively. If a country line is inside the
SSA line, the country's development level is below the SSA average, and vice versa.
Definition of indicators:
GDP per capita, $PPP = GDP per capita converted to international dollars using purchasing power parity rates;
Primary school enrollment gap = the ratio of female to male gtoss primary school enrollment rate;
Literacy gap = the ratio of female to male literacy rate for people aged 15+;
Life expectancy = life expectancy at birth in years;
Representation of wvmen in parliament = percent of women in parliament;
Adult I iving without HIV/AlDS = percent of adults living without HIV/AID S;
Access to impmved water source = percentage of the total population with reasonable access to an adequate
amount of water from an improved source;
* Percent of adequately nourished children = 100 minus the percent of under-five children suffering ftom moderate
& severe underweight, below minus two standard deviations from median weight for age of reference population.
Sources: Afikca Country Gender Database (A CGD)
- 103 -



Additional Annex 16: Summary of Environmental Assessment
and Environmental and Social Management Framework
NIGER: Community Action Program
A.      OVERVIEW
Introduction
The Government of Niger plans to undertake a long-term phased program of investment to support
community development at the local level. This Community Action Program is a four-phase program that
will extend to 2015. Its 5 main components are:
1. Community support through participative planning, execution and management of micro-projects that
have an emphasis on sustainable development;
2. Decentralization support through capacity building at local government level;
3. Funding of micro-projects through a local investment fund;
4. Poverty and environmental monitoring for impacts of the CAP; and
5. Program management (project coordination, field services, financial management and
communication).
The first three components are directly involved with implementation of the micro-projects while the latter
two are concerned with overall program management and poverty monitoring.
The scope of micro-projects is very broad, and will be proposed by communities through a participatory
process with the regional coordination units (Cellule de Coordination Regionale - CCR), which are the
Program teams in the regions.
Program Area
The area of the Community Action Program (Program) is the entire Niger territory. However, within this
territory, the first phase of the Program is aimed at about 15 - 20% of communities. The population in
Niger is very unevenly distributed, 85% being concentrated around the Nigerian border to the south. The
predominant occupation in Niger is agriculture (40% of GDP), therefore most micro-projects will work
with agricultural communities.
Program Benefits
The proposed Program will support all communities in funding micro-projects e.g. educational facilities,
health centers, literacy centers, wells, forestry, fisheries, soil conservation, dune stabilization and
agriculture. The Program requires co-funding by the communities themselves, in an effort to ensure an
economical and rational use of resources. A short "negative list" of micro-projects (that preclude funding)
will be presented to the communities e.g. religious establishments. The prioritization of critical
micro-projects rather than the creation of "wish-lists" will be encouraged given the limited resources. All
social groups will be represented in the micro-project appraisal process, and will be able to benefit from
the CAP. One of the major emphases of the Program is also the improvement of natural resources. To this
end, the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) has pledged US$ 4 million to the project. A high percentage
of the environmental and social impacts of the Program are anticipated to be positive. Benefits from GEF
funds under GEF Operational Program #12 (Integrated Ecosystem Management) are an added indication
- 104 -



of high environmental standards for the project, in addition to the World Bank Safeguards.
B.      ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Environmental Assessment
As with all World Bank projects, the CAP is subject to environmental assessment and to the other
safeguards policies (i.e. OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats, OP 4.09
Pest Management, OPN 11.03 Cultural Property (being converted into OP/BP 4.11 on Physical Cultural
Resources), OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples, OP/BP 4.36 Forestry,
OP/BP 4.37 Safety of Dams, OP/BP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas and OP/BP 17.60 Projects in
International Waterways) and the policy on disclosure of operational infornation (BP 17.50 on
Inforrnation Disclosure and their provisions for safeguard policies-related documents). Safeguard policy
issues are relevant to CDD projects because these projects sometimes finance sub-projects with adverse
environmental and / or social impacts. Even in cases where individual CDD micro-projects have little or
no adverse impacts, they may collectively lead to significant cumulative impacts (e.g. the impact of many
small-scale activities involving irrigation or the use of pesticides in agricultural projects)
For the CAP, a highly qualified Nigerien specialist, who helped draft environmental impact assessment
laws for Niger, carried out an environmental assessment (EA) of the CAP. The EA gives a general context
of the World Bank environmental and social requirements, and of the necessity of the EA. It describes the
methodology used for the study, including criteria for the classification of micro-projects and their impacts
(nature, intensity, extent and duration). The EA gives a complete depiction of the environmental context in
Niger, and its national and international legal context. After a description of the CAP, the EA describes the
type of micro-projects that will be supported e.g. building schoolhouses and creating watering points. It
lists potential impacts e.g. dust and noise from construction and stagnant water from small dams. A
comprehensive section on mitigation measures of negative impacts follows e.g. rural roads: acquire land
with the consent of the population, choose the route least disruptive to human populations, prevent dust by
watering the construction sites etc. The EA addresses a wide range of issues in anticipation of potential
micro-projects, and suggests mitigation measures for them. The EA therefore presents a nearly complete
list of mitigation measures that can be used by Program staff and communities in micro-projects. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), as part of the same document, describes the seven stages of the
standard EIA procedure in Niger (see Policy and Legislative Framework below), including the required
format for an ELA report. This is followed by a description of the mechanism for public participation and
the need for a strong institutional framework for executing mitigation measures, monitoring and
surveillance. A training program for all actors in the CAP is outlined.
Implementation of the proposed Program would result in the following primary impacts, as identified in
the EA:
Socio-economic; negative impacts:
(a)     Pollution, noise and dust from construction impacts
(b)     Waste from markets with possible health impacts
(c)     Water-borne disease from water retention from small dams
(d)     Waste from health centers
(e)     Water-borne disease from irrigation projects
(f)     Conflicts between farmers and herdsmen over improved grazing lands
and restricted access to cattle corridors
(g)     Pollution from leather tanning
- 105 -



Biophysical; negative impacts:
(a)     Lowering the water table from water wells
(b)     Pollution (pesticides, fertilizers) from market gardening
(c)     Overgrazing, overbrowsing and lowering of water table from pumping water from an excessive
increase in the national herd size
(d)     Contamination of ground water from development of latrines
(e)     Fragmentation of the hydrographic network from the construction of roads
(f)     Overexploitation of water resources from the development of wind and solar pumps
(g)     Reduction in vegetation cover from development of rural roads (especially at the margins)
(h)     Flooding forest land from small dams; drying up forest land downstream of small dams
(i)     Deforestation from converting forest land into agricultural land
()      Deforestation from production of firewood and wood for construction purposes
(k)     Deforestation from development of natural tanning from bark and pods of trees
(1)     Soil and vegetation degradation from the concentration of cattle around new watering points
(m)     Soil and vegetation degradation from the concentration of cattle around new veterinary health
centres
(n)     Overexploitation of wild fauna to supply markets from the development of new markets
(o)     Increase in plastic waste from the development of new markets
(p)     Habitat destruction from dams
(q)     Habitat destruction from land development for irrigation
(r)     Habitat destruction from increased use of timber
(s)     Habitat destruction from increase in rural roads
(t)     Soil pollution and salinisation from use of soil for market agriculture
(u)     Soil degradation from the use of clay and other materials in the construction of health centres,
classrooms and other buildings
(v)     Soil degradation from development of infrastructure for animal husbandry (fences, corridors,
vaccination areas, grazing areas)
(w)     Soil and water pollution from leather tanning
(x)     Soil degradation (water and wind erosion) from deforestation (see above for causes of
deforestation)
(y)     Soil degradation around watering points from an increase in cattle herd size
Environmental and Social Management Framework
As the exact actions of the CAP are not known in advance (the micro-projects could range from
immobilizing dunes to building schools), the Environmental Assessment was supplemented by a
Framework for identifying, screening and addressing each future micro-project on a case-by-case basis
(the Environmental and Social Management Framework). Program teams will review each micro-project
for environmental and social impacts as it is submitted for approval.
The aim of environmental and social impact assessment is to anticipate what effect a certain activity could
have on the environment and society and mitigate for it. The process of assessing the impacts of CAP
micro-projects therefore had to be inserted into the overall CAP procedure. This was achieved by selecting
certain key actors in the procedure and integrating them into a safeguards training program (see Training
below). These key people will then be able to assess the impact, if any, of micro-projects.
The ESMF then describes the present government structure and its efforts at decentralization, and how the
CAP, which is a national program, will integrate itself into this structure and help promote it. The ESMF
- 106-



describes how environmental safeguards will be integrated into this program. The legal context in Niger is
elaborated, followed by the EIA procedure in Niger (see detailed section Policy and Legislative
Framework below). The available enviromnental capacity in Niger is limited, as the environmental
infrastructure has only been in place two years. For this reason, a training component in safeguards issues
(and by implication in environmental and social issues) has been planned (see Training below). The
process of the community action programs is then described. The key enviromnental and social elements
of the EA have been summarized in a worksheet / form that is detachable and can be filled out in the field.
It works as a checklist, is organized by subject, and covers all environmental and social issues, both from
the point of view of the Niger government and World Bank Safeguards. After checking off the impacts of
the activity of the micro-project, the community / CCR classifies the micro-project as A, B or C. This is
done by working down a checklist, which is part of the EA, and is detachable. The checklist systematically
addresses all potential environmental and social impacts that a micro-project could have. Using the
checklist, the agent determines if the micro-project is classified A, B or C. The micro-project is then
allowed to proceed, with or without EIA, as required. The procedure to be followed once micro-projects
are classified A, B or C is:
* Class A: full EA according to Niger regulations. Micro-project can proceed if mitigation measures
proposed in EA are followed.
* Class B: modification of micro-project at local level (through discussion between grappes and
Program Regional Coordination Unit - CCR) determination and application of mitigation measures.
No further requirement for EA.
* Class C: no requirement for EA; micro-project can proceed.
If the Program team does not approve of the micro-project (i.e. if it does not satisfy World Bank
safeguards or the Niger environmental laws), then a mechanism has been set up to discontinue the flow of
funds and halt the micro-project. The Comite Technique d'Arrondissement (COTEAR) approves the
micro-project and allows the CCR to disburse funds; the COTEAR is the technical committee at "
arrondissement" (regional) level. The COTEAR will be trained in safeguards issues, and will be able to
approve or reject micro-projects on environmental and social grounds. If it rejects a particular
micro-project, it advises the CCR not to release funds for that micro-project. Additionally, the CCR is
expected to carry out random checks of the micro-projects in operation for safeguards issues, and can, if
the micro-project fails to meet the required standards, discontinue funding.
The process of carrying out ELAs and mitigation measures is then detailed, including scoping and
screening, necessary baseline studies e.g. water flow data, analysis of impacts, analysis of altematives and
mitigation measures. The same process is given for social assessment. A description of the World Bank
Group Safeguard policies is then reviewed, including the ones that, if triggered, will exclude the
micro-project from being financed under the CAP e.g. Projects in Disputed Areas. The need for public
consultation and participation, which is implicit in the CAP, is underlined. The actors responsible for the
participatory process at every stage of the micro-project cycle are identified e.g. CCR and NGOs. The
need for disclosing certain documents (e.g. ISDS, EA, ESMF) in-country and at the World Bank InfoShop
is mentioned. Finally, the process of monitoring and evaluation is outlined. T his pertains to monitoring the
participation process and the implementation of mitigation plans. An extensive list of indicators is for use
in environmental and social monitoring. The importance of establishing baseline data for the use of
indicators to be useful is stressed.
- 107 -



Training
The procedure of the Framework raises the question of having qualified personnel at all levels to screen
micro-projects for World Bank safeguards and to classify them A, B or C. Therefore, a comprehensive
training program has been planned to train senior Program management, junior management and
communities in safeguards issues. The training program has been targeted at all levels, including:
* Bureau d 'Evaluation Environnementale et d 'Etudes d 'Impact (BEEEI) management staff, the Nigerien
entity responsible for reviewing EIAs, its non-permanent members composed for the most part of
representatives and members of the environmental management unit of the CCN of the CAP in
Niamey (20 people);
* Management staff from the regional administration of the Ministry of Planning, from the environment
representing the BEEEI and from the prefecture and the members of the regional unit for
environmental management of the CAP regional coordination committee (CCR) (30 people);
* Management staff of the regional administration composed of the technical services and other
authorities; two representatives of the Plan and the Environment from each sub-region representing the
BEEEI;
* All the technical management staff of the sub-regions, all technical service management staff involved
in the CAP, representatives of local communities;
* Communities and their organizations, community development agents, NGOs and other organizations.
It is worth noting that the Program is to a large extent an environmental one, having received funding from
the GEF. It will be based to some extent on pilot projects managed by the United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UJNCDF) and by the Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles (PGRN). One pilot
project carried out by the UNCDF in the Diffa region of Niger served as a pilot project for the CAP. The
PGRN is a natural resource management project that was active in five different arrondissements in Niger
and lasted six years (ending in September 2002). Experience gained and capacity built in these two
projects will be used in the CAP. Therefore although the CAP is a new project, there is already a pool of
experienced staff from which the CAP could benefit.
Resettlement
Resettlement is not anticipated to be an issue. The CAP is a community-based Program that will be
developed on a participatory basis. Communities themselves will suggest micro-projects for financing, and
will probably not, therefore, suggest micro-projects that will displace them. Furthermore, the CAP
precludes funding micro-projects that involve resettlement issues.
Cultural Property
Niger is rich in archaeological heritage. Major works e.g. roads or dams could therefore have an effect on
cultural property. However, the Program does not plan to finance micro-projects that cause damage to or
otherwise impair cultural property.
Other Safeguards
There is a "negative list" of micro-projects (i.e. those that will not be funded by the CAP). In addition, the
CAP will not fund micro-projects that trigger the safeguards on Cultural Property, Indigenous People,
International Waterways, Projects in Disputed Areas or Involuntary Resettlement.
Policy and Legislative Framework
- 108-



In 2000, Niger established a procedure for environmental impact assessment, which applies to all projects
executed in Niger. The procedure for environmental assessment in Niger can be sunmuarized in seven
stages:
1.      Project description
2.      Initial examination by BEEEI
3.      Terms of reference for environmental assessment
4.      Environmental assessment
5.      Analysis of the environmental assessment
6.      Recommendations / mitigation
7.      Monitoring and surveillance
The CAP must satisfy the Nigerien environmental requirements above as well as the World Bank
environmental and social requirements. Environmental management in Niger is governed by Law 98-56 of
29 December 1998 through two instruments: (i) Article 27 (the National Environmental Plan for
Sustainable Development - PNEDD) and (ii) Article 31 (Environmental Impact Assessment). The law
requires the government to create a PNEDD and to review it every five years. It makes it compulsory to
carry out an EIA for all development projects, programmes or activities likely to affect the human and
social environment on account of their size or type. The key actors are the Bureau of Environmental
Assessment and Impact Studies (BEEEI), the National Environmental Council for Sustainable
Development (CNEDD), the Ministry of the Environment and Civil Society.
The BEEEI is the entity responsible for reviewing environmental impact assessments in Niger. It is part of
the Ministry of the Environment, Hydraulics and the Fight Against Desertification. As for any project in
Niger, it will be responsible for environmental review of micro-projects in the CAP. The CNEDD is the
entity responsible for elaborating and applying the National Environmental Plan for Sustainable
Development. As such, its policies complement the World Bank safeguards policies. The Ministry of the
Environment is responsible for setting government policy on the environment; its policies also
complement World Bank policies.
However, this Nigerien framework is aimed at addressing impacts from known activities, and generally
applies to single, large developments e.g. dams, roads, mines or factories. The CAP however consists of
many micro-projects that will be initiated in the future, whose impacts are unknown. In this case, it would
be too impractical, costly and laborious to carry out a full EA on each micro-project. For this reason a
screening procedure has been set up (see Environmental and Social Management Framework above), and
a micro-project will only be subject to a full Nigerien EIA procedure when it is found to have significant
impact.
Compliance with Regulations and Procedures
At the time of negotiations, the proposed Program was in full compliance with the provisions of all
applicable Nigerian and World Bank procedures.
Prior to appraisal, the Government of Niger disclosed the Environmental Assessment and the
Environmental and Social Management Framework.
- 109 -



C.      REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
Reporting
As an element of Program reporting requirements, the CAP would prepare routine reports concerning
progress in implementation of activities related to environmental and social aspects. As necessary,
supplemental reports with greater detail than the routine reports also would be prepared on these topics.
The reports will include the checklist, filled out by the communities and the CCR in the field, the
mitigation measures suggested and the means to carry them out for each micro-project.
Program Supervision
The Supervision Plan for the proposed Program would include the participation of World Bank
environmental and social safeguards staff in missions to review progress in implementation of the
Environmental Assessment and Environmental and Social Management Plan. The performance of the CAP
in the implementation of these activities under the Program would be a standard element of supervision
reports, including the Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion Report. Supervision teams
will report on implementation to Program management, as well as offer constructive advice in case of
shortcomings.
- 110 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 32251
0                                           5                                           10,             jI5
NIGER                                                             A                                     .--,.             LIBYA
PAVED ROADS                                                                          -\
ROUTES PERMANENTES                          ;'                                         '
EARTH RpOADS                                           '4 
'N,                                      ROUTES RN TERRRRE-                                      "
N,                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVETS                          A
FLE UVES                                  F     -                          -      '                |-
N  N                   * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISRIICAPITALSA                                   t                      -I
CHEPFLIEU D'ARRONDISSEMENT              ,           '..      ''4-.
N,                    ~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT CAPITALS      ,                                I1
N,                      L3   CHEF-LIEU DE DEPARTEMENT           A F
NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE NATIONALE              A
~ ________ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
LIMITE D'ARRONDISSEMENT
i              _   _ DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES       '                                 I,
- '' "N _            RIMITE DE DEPARTEMENT   4                                    j,
20''                                  ____ INTERNATIONAL ROLUNDARlES  / 
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES  I/)        A                                       6 t M A
)              s;,                  ~~~~~~~~   ~     ~    ~~~                                            ~   ~~~~~~~A R L I T     205-
j               _--1;    'T'        <2 -+   ,---~'           A  G   AID E Z
E' 4           RIN Ej
glk  tE   ]   /   ]  TCHIN-                                                                            0   50  100 P1  \'  I  !  !s   1 io  200
/t;7-  $   1  >S<J < ~~~~~~~~~ aet>E   t~~~~~\>>>/__y~~~~~<  _  X   ,./   |     /      |     KILOMETER5~~~~KLOMTER
d   . . .T b '                                                                              M p  DIj gs   U n i t   o   j   W  r l d   8 - k
MALI                                                        -- jI CzS4s  <   /  pt  /  4_   |          N G U I G M I  /               ond=myotHADinhxrmoeionwUd m
y  t  _._.---, ff S;  \  TAP4oUA jJX  r        <         ~    ~~z jl N D E R!i                                            neSas7 cy royr
Alr~t4                                                                              ALEI ELINBYA 
KONNIiighzaM.,,,u' 
\ ERF > >TABARADEN>                                                                                                        U  RE  l  bOTUamAD  15A2IER
U    R   K ,1-1                         4                                                    A                                             /,\           z
9  /                                                               I          DIFFA          7           mismap,,aspcauiuuauibNIyGuEhaI A 
/1  YKI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUA           I~    ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY20









IMAGING
Report No.:        23819  NIR
Type:     PAD



