Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052053 NIR 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Community Action Program Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated March 28, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052053 NIR 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 2003 between the REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Recipient a letter dated  
February 7, 2003, describing a program of objectives and actions designed to support the 
implementation of the Recipient’s decentralization and local development policy (the 
Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(C) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(D) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the development grant agreement (the 
Development Grant Agreement) of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
International Development Association (the Association), has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been 
approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2; and 
(F) 
the Recipient has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financing towards the Project pursuant to the Development Grant Agreement, and the 
Association has agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
Page  3
-
2
-
equivalent to twenty-five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights  
(SDR 25,400,000) (the Development Grant); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend a grant to the Recipient (the GEF Grant) upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated 
January 1, 1985, as amended through October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (16), 
(17), (19) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i), (k) (l) and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (a) and(c), 12.02 (a) and (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(p) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.”; and 
`
(vii) 
Section 12.05 is modified to read as follows: 
“This Development Grant Agreement and all obligations of the 
parties thereunder shall terminate on the date seven years 
following the Closing Date.” 
Section 1.02. (a) Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, Section 1.02 of the 
Development Grant Agreement, and the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and 
(b) 
wherever used in Section 1.02, Article III, Article IV, Schedule 2, 
Schedule 3, and Schedule 4 of the Development Grant Agreement, as incorporated in this 
Agreement pursuant to Recital (E), Section 1.02, Article III, and paragraphs 2 (c) and  
3
(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:  
(i) 
the term “Association” shall mean the Bank; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Grant” shall mean the GEF Grant; 
(iii) 
the term “Grant Account” shall mean the GEF Grant Account; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(iv) 
the term “Special Account” shall mean the GEF Special 
Account; and 
(v) 
the term “90-day Advance Account” shall mean the GEF 90-day 
Advance Account; and 
(c) 
the following additional terms have the following meaning: 
(i) 
“Developing Grant Agreement” means the agreement of even 
date herewith between the Recipient and the Association for 
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such 
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Development Grant Agreement; 
(ii) 
“GEF Special Account” means the special deposit account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and 
(iii) 
“GEF 90-day Advance Account” means any of the advance 
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to four million United States Dollars (US$4,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under Matching Grants in 
respect of the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for Micro-projects 
to be carried out under Part C of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the GEF Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA: (i) a GEF Special Account in the name of the NCU; and (ii) eight GEF 90-day 
Page  6
-
5
-
Advance Accounts in the name of each RCU, all in commercial banks on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the GEF Special Account and 
each respective GEF 90-day Advance Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007,
 
or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project; Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of the Development Grant Agreement are 
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were 
fully set forth herein. 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Development Grant 
made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Development Grant Agreement. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused 
by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations 
under the Development Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development 
Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this GEF Grant 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for finance
 
is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 
6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economy  
BP 389 
 
Niamey 
 
Republic of Niger 
 
Facsimile:   
 
(227) 73 59 34 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By /s/ Joseph Diatta 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
U.S. dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Civil Works 
0 
80%  
 
(2) 
Goods 
0 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
80%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
300,000 
85% of foreign  
 services, 
 
 
expenditures 
 
including audit fees 
 
and 80% 
of local  
expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
1,300,000 
 100% 
 
(5) Matching 
Grants 
under 
2,100,000 
100% 
of 
amounts
 
Part C of the Project  
 
disbursed 
 
(6) Operating 
Costs 
300,000 
90% 
 
TOTAL 
  ________ 
 
4,000,000 
 
======== 
Page  11
-
10
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by 
the NCU and the RCUs on account of office supplies and maintenance, administrative 
support, communication, insurance and utility services, travel and associated subsistence 
allowances, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, rental expenses, banking charges, 
and salaries for contractual and temporary staff except the staff referred to in Section II 
(2) (c) and Section II (3) (c) of Schedule 4 to the Development Grant Agreement, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:  
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b) 
expenditures under Category (5) of the table set forth under paragraph 1 
of this Schedule 1, for any Matching Grant, unless such Matching Grant has been made 
in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section III of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Grant Agreement and with the PIM and the EMP, and a Matching Grant 
Agreement, on the terms and conditions specified in Section III of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Grant Agreement and in the PIM and the EMP, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been duly executed by and is binding on the parties thereto, and has 
become effective. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works, goods and services 
of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;  
(ii) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; and (iii) Matching Grants, training, and operating costs, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
Page  12
-
11
-
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank for deposit into the GEF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
GEF Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
 
FCFA 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account and deposited into the 
GEF Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount of FCFA 150,000,000
 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
GEF Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of one million and five hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(US$1,500,000). 
2. 
Payments out of the GEF Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Grant Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the GEF Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the GEF 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and deposit 
into the GEF Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the GEF Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GEF Special Account and the 
GEF 90-day Advance Accounts, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the GEF Special Account or any of the GEF 90-day Advance 
Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; 
or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the GEF Special Account and any of the GEF 90-
day Advance Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
GEF Special Account or any of the GEF 90-day Advance Accounts: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the GEF Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the GEF Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the GEF Special Account or any of the GEF 90-day Advance Accounts
 
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the GEF Special Account and in any of the GEF 
90-day Advance Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
7. 
GEF 90-day Advance Accounts: 
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the GEF Special Account and deposit 
into each GEF 90-day Advance Account sufficient funds to facilitate the implementation 
of the Project, provided that the Recipient shall at no time cause the amount held in any 
GEF 90-day Advance Account to exceed the FCFA 3,000,000 each. 
(b) 
Payments out of the GEF 90-day Advance Accounts shall only be made 
for eligible expenditures in respect of Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the table in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
(c) 
Any withdrawal from any GEF 90-day Advance Account shall be 
justified by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
(d) 
If the Bank or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any GEF 90-day Advance Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant RCU shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank or the Recipient, refund to the GEF Special Account such outstanding 
amount. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
