roamat of                                _
The World Bank
FOI OMCIAL uSE ONLY
LA). a3it-Tub
Reput N. P-3628-IND
REPORT AND RECHENDAIION
OF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
TETNATIONAL BAN  FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPN
TO THE
EXECUTIE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN1 AoIT EQUIVALENT TO US$63.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDCNESIA
FOR THE
THI  AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
June 30, 1983
Ivmu                  aft dh    be _ _       W       _



CUa;Ncr 
Currency unit - Indonesal  Ruplah (Rp)
US$1         -  p 970
NplOO        - USSO.103
Bp 1,000     - US$1.03
Rp 1  illion  - US$1,030.93
GOVNNT OF INDONESIA FISCPT    YEAR
AprIl 1 - Narch 31
SCOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL A EVATOS AND ACRONM  USED
AATE   - Agency for Agricutural Education, TrainIng and Extension
AARD    - Agency for Aricutural Research and Developent
AIC     - Agricltral Iforation Center
GOI     - The Governmet of Indonesia
ISTC    - Inservice TrainIng Center
NEC     - Ninistry of Education and Culture
NOA     - Manistr  of Agriculture
PmU     - Project Implemetation Unit
UXPELITA - National nFve-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 19. '-84)
SNTP    - Agricultural Techuology School (NEC)
SPP     - Agricultural Development School (WOA)



VOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
nDONES1A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Sua _ry
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         $63.3 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee).
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description: The project constitutes the third phase of the Government-s
long-term strategy to Improve quality and supply of
middle-level agricultural manpower. The project would
provide funds for civil works, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance and fellowships to: (a) improve and
expand preservice agricultural training; (b) upgrade and
expand inservice training programs for agricultural staff;
{c) expand the provision of locally adapted information
materials for agricultural extension programs and training
institutions; and (d) strengthen management and planning
services for agricultural training.
The main benefit of the project would be to promote agricul-
tural development by increasing the provision of
well-trained agricultural technicians.  There is some risk
that the Government wi'- not provide sufficient additional
resources to the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training
and Extenion (AAETE) Planning Division for it to expand its
capacity as planned. This risk will be offset by the
establishment of the proposed Center fe- Agricultural
Manpower Development which would greatly increase AAETE's
overall analytical capacity and support the planning
function. There is also some risk that, due to increased
budgetary constraints, the Government may try to reduce the
operating costs and thereby lower the standards for training
agricultural technicians. The focus of the project on
improving the quality and internal efficiency of existing
Agricultural Development Schools (SPPs) rather than on
expansion will help to minimize this risk.
This doument has a rstcted dWinbutmn and may be usd by reipients ony in the pafonnance
of thir officiaJ duties. l contet my m othewi be diclaed without World lank authoriation.



Estimated Costs:|a                            Local      Foreign     Total
M$ ( illion)    --
Preservice Training                     29.0        26.1       55.1
Inservice Training                       Z.4        1.8         4.2
Agricultural Information Centers         4.7         4.3        9.0
Management and Planning                  0.9         2.5        3.4
Base Costs                                 37.0        34.7       71.7
Physical Contingencies                   3.7         3.5        7.2
Price Contingencies                     18.2         8.1       26.3
Total Project Cost                    59.0       46.3       105.2
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                     -           u.2        0.2/b
Total Financing Required              59.0       46.4       105.4
Financing Plan:
Bank                                        16.9        46.4       63.3
Government                                  42.1         -         42.1
Total                                 59.0       46.4       105.4
Estimated Di sbursements:
Bank FY             1984  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
-~~- g S Million)-
Annual                    2.2   5.4   11.4   16.0   12.5    9.5    6.3
Cumulative                2.2   7.6   19.0   35.0   47.5   57.0   63.3
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4367-IND dated July 5, 1983.
/a Totals are rounded.
lb $157,855
Note: Total project costs exclude taxes.



REPOR  AEND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPXENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAiN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and reconmendation on a prcposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $63.3 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Third
Agricultural Training Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
inclAding five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects- (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorand'im has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled Indonesia: Policies fnr Growth with Lower Oil Prices'
(No. 4279-IND dated May 12. 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for
the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country nas a
highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant m.neral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the pcpulation live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population detnsities in the world. About 20%
of the population r ive in urban areas in both Java and the Other Islands, and
the current rate of urban populatior. growth is over 4% p.a. The 1982 estimate
of GNP per capita is $580, which places Indonesia amongst middle income
countries.ll
/i On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNr.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery fron the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives f or domestic and foreign
private investment. However, for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign          b
exchange earnings from o.l. Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/BL, when the current account
enjoyed a surjplus of $2.1 billion. Oil receipts also provide about 70% of
Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained increase In
demand via the budget. The pattern of expenditures has also helped foster
diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for agriculture,
through investment in infrastructure, support services and effective use of
subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This supported an agricultural
growth rate of almost 4% per annum over the past decade, and movement towards
self-sufficiency in rice. During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing has also enjoyed
a high growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but this has been
predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, th2 macroeconomic resource position has changed dramati-
cally. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume and
price of oil -xports have led to a turnaround in the current account of about
$10 tIllion in two years, with a deficit of almost $7 billion in 1982/83,
equivalent to about 8% of GNP, a level that cannot be sustained for more than
a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effectively to the
worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of 1983, introduced a
comprehensive package of policy measures to reduce the current account
deficit.  First, in January 1983, an austere 1983/84 budget was introduced,
that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies on oil, fertilizer and food,
and a squeeze on current expenditures. Second, on March 30, 1983, the Rupiah
was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970 to the US dollar, without changing
the full convertibility of the currency. This was, in part, in response to
the substantial private sector capital outflow over the previous months.
Third, in May, a major rephasing of public investment was announced, in
particular of large-scale import-intensive projects in the industrial, elec-
tric power and transport sectors. These measures shlould ensure the effective
management of the foreign eAchange position in the short run, and the reduc-
tion of the current account deficits to sustainable levels over the next two
to three years. As a consequence of the changed resource position, growth was
low in 1982 and will continue to be low in 1983.  In order to minimize the
impact on domestic incomes and employment, the Government is reallocating any
rupiah savings from the rephased profits to public expenditure activities with
a high domestic content.



-3-
Policy for MediumrTerm Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth rates
be restored in the medium term: a rate of growth of the order of 6Z per annum
for the nonr-oil economy is probably necessary co have a significant impact
on employment creation and poverty allev:iation in the 1980s. This will
require the diversification of the economy away from its present dependence on
oil, for both foreign exchange earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government has already taken major policy inititatives to
mobilize domestic resources. This involv,ed both the increased mobilization
of private savings, especially of the household sector, through the
financial system, and the diversification of sources of public finance away
from oil exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced a
major financial reform on J..ne 1, 1983, that includes the significant
deregulation of deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in
subsidized refinancing facilities from the central bank and the removal of
all credit ceilings. In addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this
is an important ster in the deregulation of economic activity that should
also lead to increased efficiency of resource use. With respect to public
finance, the quantitatively most important measures in the recent past have
been the large increases in domestic fuel prices to reduce the subsidy on
consumptior.; subsidies on food and fertilizer prices have also been reduced,
and the Government is in the process of introducing a major tax reform.
s.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
non-oil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
quence, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be alloca-
ted to exports if growth is to be maintained, especially in the relatively
laborintensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import
replacement. This will require measures to improve the overall efficiency
of the sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory
framework, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and
specific export promotion policies. The Government has already introduced a
range of export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import
substitution bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for
exporters, raise product quality and improve marketing capacity.
9.        Agriculture will also continue to be of -,reat importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-roil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.



-4-
This achievement is largely a result of the rehabilitation and expansion of
irrigation systems, and the dissemination of new agricultural technology,
particularly with respect to the timely delivery of seeds and fertilize:s.
Future investment in physical infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads,
combined with a favorable market environment and good support services will be
the main determinants of further expansion in food production. In the past
tree crops have suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the
trees is now very old, but the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has a highly
ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating substantial
investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution and
marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promocing
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so.
Per capita consumption of the bottom 40% in the expenditure distribution is
estimated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These
gains are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduc-
tion in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from
47 to 53./1 These improvements should not, however, mask the continued
existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 40% of the population are estimated
to have been in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be ~n rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and
possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for most of the
1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages.
However, in the 1979-81 period, bumper rice harvests appear to have lea to
improvements in wages and incomes in Java, while agricultural incomies on
parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops declined in the face of
the international recession. Following the devaluation this situation will
likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed by the international
recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade.  In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13Z; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in
1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employ-
ment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 5 -
rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikely that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the future. If an adequate growth in labor demand
is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies specifically
oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring overall growth.
In the short-run, the maintenance of employment-intensive public works
activities can make a significant contribution.
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending tl-e provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%.  However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facili-
ties, notably at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an
improvement in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This
will have to be complemented by a major expansion in water supply and
sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the
1970s is to be maintained. Currently, only 18Z of the rural and 40Z of the
urban population have access to safe water /1 compared with Government
targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment policies
outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital inflows.
Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of significant
net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to be smoothly
implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and the development
process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past financial asset
accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves declined by
$3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an additional
$0.9 billion. While the reserve cover is still adequate, the scope for
additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of future deficits
will have to come from medium- and long-term public borrowing. About $5 bil-
lion per annum of new commitments will be required over the next three years
to finance the projected deficits during the adjustment period. It is
reasonable to expect that at least 40% will come from official development
assistance (ODA) - at the June meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on
Indonesia the donors pledged over $2.2 billion for 1983/84 - with some
increase in borrowings from the financial markets and continued use of
official and private export credits.
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 6-
14.       ToLal public debt outstanding at end-1982 was $18.3 billion, with
an additional $12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 542 of the total and no short-term debt;
the average maturity of new commitments was 15 years in 1982. The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of exports, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at
about 26% in the mid-1980.. This is largely a consequence of the decline in
anticipated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt
burden is high by Indonesia's past standards, but remains wlthin the limits
of prudent debt management. Backed by the effective program of domestic
adjustment, Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external
finance without undue difficulty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       As of March 31, 1983, Indoneria had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million. IFC
investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6Z
respectively in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank
loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture
(including transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over
one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In
addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all other sec-
tors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban development,
water supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing
(including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications. population and
technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with
the objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank
Group lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of irfrastructure and prcluction facilities.  Special attention
was also given .o meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical
assistance needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita
III (1979-84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high
growth and stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special
emphasis on more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.
This focus, which was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic
economic report, required greater attention to employment gentration
(particularly in the industrial sector) and to improvements in basic public
servlces. While Bank lending was already consistent with these objectives,
increased emphasis has been given to these priorities.



-7-
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all likeli-
hood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
men'- can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. The
only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a rapid expan-
sion planned in the education sector, a di-rect response to the severe shortage
of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is
focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will build on
Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource-intensive industries.
This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facili-
tate sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued lending is
concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia-s energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree crops will
continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated.
Continued lend:ir, in the areas of provision of social services, in population,
health and nutticion, urban development and water supply will increasingly
emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative low-cost
solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen .major improvements in the disbursement
ratio A1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of 21.31%,
in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18% in FY82.
The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However,
it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out of GDI's budgetary,
procurement and payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and
opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical
manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken
by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions
have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank '.ave
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-8-
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition,
procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the COI in a special
effort to identify problems In the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of the major causes
of implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these
efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless important
that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia-s much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the first lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Second Nonformal
Education, the Second Provincial Irrigation, and the Second Swamp Reclamation
Projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL TRAINING SECTOR
Introduction
21.       Indonesia's agricultural extension services have been a successful
contribution to the impressive growth of the agriculture sector in recent
years. The focus of these services varies widely by region. In Java-Bali new
varieties and technical packages for irrigated rice have resulted in steadily
increasing output. In the Other Islands, where topography and soils limit the
areas suitable for irrigation, development is closely connected to the



- 9 -
generation and extension of appropriate technical packages '^r rainfed
agri-ulture, with a focus on total production systems rather thaa on single
crops, and to the development of forestry, fishery resources, and tree crops.
Agricultural Extension
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) consists of four commodity-
oriented Directorates Geaeral responsible for food crops, estate crops,
livestock and fisheries -a separate Ministry with responsibility for fores-
tr-y wa^ establishes la March 1983) and two functionally-oriented agencies,
the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) and the Agency
for Agricultural Education Training and Extension (AAETE). In 1974 a
Presidential Decree established AAETE with Jurisdiction over extension,
although the operation of most extension services at the provincial level
has remained under the control of the representatives of the various
Directorates-General. AAETE has concentrated on refining extension metho-
dology and producing extension materials ir addition to managing the
education and training of agricultural staff. AAETE operates one national
and 11 regional Agricultural Information Centers (AICs) established under
the First Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND).
23.       Agricultural extension in Indonesia uses the training and visit
(T and V) system, which has been introduced effectively in several
provinces. However, further improvement of the agricultural extension and
support systems is constrained by several factors, including the lack of
appropriate technology for secondary food crops, insufficient manpower skill
development and the need for greater coordination in the delivery of
services to farmers. Linkages between research and extension also need to
be strengthened. Although the existing AICs have been adequately staffed
and are operating satisfactorily, they have experienced difficulties in
developing extension materials which adequately reflect the varying needs
and conditions in different provinces and in integrating sufficiently with
agricultural services across provincial boundaries. There is a need to
establish an AIC as a part of the agricultural support system within each
province in order to strengthen the research-extension linkage and to adapt
research findings to local farAing conditions.
Agricultural Manpower Requirements
24.       Pronounced scarcities of managerial and technical staff constrain
the implementation of agricultural development programs. A recent report /1
indicates that middle-level technical manpower will be in short supply
through the mid-1980s and that standards of agricultural technicians need to
be raised. The report has stimulated the Government to undertake additional
studies to ascertain the magnitude of effective demand for agricultural
/1 Indonesia: Technical and Professional Manpower in Agriculture,
IBRD Report No. 3249b-I1D, August 20, 1981.



- 10 -
technicians.  The most recent MOA projections indicate an annual growth in
demand for agricultural technicians of 16% during the latter part of
Repelita III (1979/80-1983/84) declining to 9Z during Repelita IV (1984/85-
1988/89). This would be equivalent to an annual demand for technicians of
about 12,600 in 1983/84 and 13,400 in 1988/89. The estimates reflect the
changing composition of demand between sectors. Sectoral priorities
outlined in the draft plans for Repelita IV indicate that technician
requirements for the food crops and livestock sectors will decline relative
to the estate crops, fisheries and forestry sectors which will require
proportionately more manpower. The demand for technicians in these sectors
is estimated to grow at an annual rate of 10%, 23% and 8%, respectively,
between 1983184 and 1988/89.
25.       To meet the demand in the agricuitural sector for middle-level
technical manpower, the Government has adopted a three-point strategy. As
a short-term strategy, the Government has requested AAETE to establish an
Accelerated Training Program for recruits from general secondary schools.
This two-year program will produce about 10,300 graduates by the end of
Repelita III in 1984, mainly for the estate crops, fishery and forestry
sectors, and will result in a small shortfall in 1983/84 in relation to
estimated demand. The second point of the strategy entails a program to
strengthen and consolidate the regular system of agricultural secondary
schools during Repelita IV. Under the program the combined output from
Agricultural Development Schools (SPPs) and Agricultural Technology Schools
(SMTPs) would increase from 9,600 in 1983/84 to 12,100 in 1988/89, comprising
an increase in the efficiency of existing schools and and a modest expansion
of marine fishery and forestry schools. The strategy's third point involves
development of post-secondary diploma training programs as a gradual means of
raising the qualifications of middle-level staff over the longer term.
While this strategy is expected to result in a significant gap betweer the
actual supply and estimated demand for technicians during Repelita IV, it is
a realistic strategy which takes into account budgetary constraints and the
absorptive capacity of the MOA and the provincial agricultural services.
26.       The supply of adequately trained manpower also depends on the conr-
tinuous upgrading of basic managerial and technical skills through inservice
training. Inservice training pro-rams presently focus on orientation and
remedial training reflecting the nigh growth of the agricultural extension
force and the resulting large inflow of new staff, uary of whom are inade-
quately trained. Such training represented 40% of all inservice training
in 1980/81. As the growth rate of the extension force declines, in the mid-
and late-1980s, training would focus increasingly on improving the technical
knowledge and skills of existing staff and less on orientation and remedial
training for new or unqualified staff.
/1 Indonesia: Technical and Professional Manpower in Agriculture,
IBRD Report No. 3249b-1D, August 20, 1981.



- Ul -
27.       The Government has established minimum standards for inservice
training. New personnel are to receive two months of training (orientation)
in the first year of service, and 20% of those already employed would
receive one month of training (skill upgrading) each year. Based cn these
standards and the projected manpower increase during Repelita IV, inservice
training demand for the next plan period would increase from 45,600 man-
months in 1982/83 to 52,400 man-months by 1988/89.  Supply of inse-r%ce
training capacity within MOA is expected to increase over the same period
from 31,000 man-months to 43,000 man-months including planned exDansion
under the Second Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 1692-IND) and a further
expansion proposed under the Third Agricultural Training Project. In
addition to providing for some increase in MOA training capacity, particu-
larly in underserved provinces, the government strategy is to provide
greater opportunities for advanced inservice training for agricultural
technicians through the universities and proposed agricultural polytechnics.
28.       Improved provincial distribution of training capacity would
increase opportunities for inservice training in the under-served provinces
and would facilitate the provision of training which is more relevant to
local farming and development conditions. The absence of suitably located
training facilities has resulted in high unit costs for training in the past
(e.g., in the National Agricultural Extension Projects). Presently, nine
Other Island provinces lack facilities for agricultural inservice training.
While some provinces could continue to use training facilities in neigh-
boring provinces, the remoteness of certain provinces and the build-up of
agricultural staff associated with the transmigration program in other
provinces would Justify the establishment of additional provincial inservice
training facilities.
Organization of Agricultural Education and Training
29.       Technician-level agricultural education is provided at the upper
secondary level at two types of schools, the SMTPs and the SPPs. The SMTPs
are financed by the national government and administered by the Ministry of
Education and Culture (MEC). The SPPs, which account for about 8CZ of the
total output of agricultural technicians, are under the responsibility of
AAETE and are financed by the national budget, provincial budgets and
private sources. In 1981/82 state SPPs accounted for 21% of total
enrollment, provincial SPPs for 61% and private SPPs for the remaining 18%.
Standards at all SPPs are under the control of AAETE. The SPPs offer three
years of agricultural instruction at the senior secondary level (grades
10-12). The majority of SPPs offer a broad-based curriculum which includes
mandatory courses in basic sciences, as well as applied vocational subjects
such as irrigation, farm mechanization and agricultural extension. These
required courses account for 68% of the curriculum. For the remaining 32%
of the curriculum students may choose from a variety of optional courses,
including agronomy, animal husbandry, fisheries, food crop production and
horticulture. A small number of SPPs, established under the Second



- 12 -
Agricultural Training Project, provide specialized training in marine
fishery and forestry. The quality and efficiency of the state SPPs has
improved with assistance from the First and Second Agricultural Training
Projects and the curriculum content is satisfactory. However, the
provincial SPPs, which account for almost two-thirds of total SPP output,
are of markedly lower quality. The implementation of the curriculum in the
provincial SPPs needs to be strengthened, particularly in applied subjects
and farm practice, through. the provision of adequate faim land and practical
facilities, better trained teachers and increased supervision by the
better-staffed and better-financed state schools.
30.       AAETE also has administrative responsibility for the Fishery
Training Institute. The Institute, which was established in 1962, is the
only Indonesian institution providing a postsecondary training program
(three years) to train skippers and engineers for deep-sea fishing, as well
as senior technicians in fish processing. The Institute also proposes to
establish a marine management program. Although the Institute has an
experienced staff and well-developed curriculum, it is located in the
Jakarta suburbs and lacks suitable facilities for practical training,
including training at sea in navigation, marine engineering and deep-sea
fishing techniques.
31.       Inservice training is carried out at provincial inservice training
centers (ISTCs) for middle-level agricultural technicians and one national
agricultural training institute for higher-level staff administered by
AAETE. Other MOA agencies also operate some inservice training institutions
including two Forestry Training Institutes and two Estate Crops Training
Institutes.
32.       The responsibility for planning and rationalizing all agricultural
education and training within MOA has been assigned to AAETE. AAETE's
functions include: (a) planning and assessment of training programs and
prescribing of relevant course improvements for all preservice and inservice
agricultural institutions under the authority of 'IOA; (b) budgeting and
administration for state SPPs and inservice training centers;
(c) accreditation and supervision of all provincial and private SPPs; and
(d) development and production of agricultural information materials. The
AAETE consists of a Secretariat, responsible for planning and budgeting and
administrative services, and three bureaus responsible for agricultural
secondary schools, inservice training, and agricultural information and
advice on extension.
33.       AAETE prepares annually a training program to meet MOA-s inservice
training needs. The program is prepared in consultation with the various
directorates-general. However, weaknesses in AAETE-s planning capacity
combined with the pressures created by a rapid expansion in MOA staff have
resulted in ad hoc planning concerned mainly with responding to MOA-s heavy



- 13 -
short-term training demands. To overcome the constraint imposed on agricul-
tural development by insufficient technical and managerial skills, AAETE
needs to develop a long-range planning capacity to identify skill and
knowledge gaps and determine specific job req.iirements in the context of
sectoral and regional development plans.  This would require not ouly the
strengthening of the existing Planning Division within the AAETE Secretariat
but also the creation of a core group of professional staff at the National
Agricultural Training Institute to evaluate training programs and identify
training needs as the basis fcr improved planning of staff development and
utilization.
34.       MAETE draws on the staff resources of other MOA agencies as
appropriate for the design and teaching of specific courses and may also
draw on their financial resources for a variety of ad hoc programs not
foreseen in AAETE-s routine budget, as in the case of training provided
under the National Agricultural Extension Projects. In addition, many kinds
of shorter, on-the-job training courses remain the responsibility of the
directorate-general concerned.
Government Strategy and Bank Role
35.       The success of the Government-s programs for the development of
the agricultural sector depends on effective implementation of its strategy
to provide more and better support services to farmers. Central to this
goal is the provision of well-trained, middle-level manpower to serve as
agricultural technicians for production, research and extension activities.
In order to provide such manpower the Government plans to: (a) strengthen
AAETE as the central agency responsible for overall planning and
rationalization of middle-level agricultural training in the country; and
(b) improve preservice and inservice agricultural training institutions to
meet agricultural manpower needs.
36.       The first phase of this strategy was successfully implemented
under the First Agricultural Training Project (Cr. 288-IND) which was
completed in 1978. The project established the AAETE and improved the
quality and efficiency of 14 state SPPs and 14 ISTCs. The second phase of
the strategy, which is being implemented through the Second Agricultural
Training Project (Ln. 1692-IND) focuses on: (a) establishment of five
additional state SPPs and seven ISTCs to increase overall capacity; and (b)
improvement in the quality of 9 SPPs (one state and 8 provincial) and three
ISTCs. The project became effective in July 1979. Implementation is about
nine months ahead of the appraisal schedule. Physical completion of most
project institutions is expected by June 1983.
37.       An OED Project Performance Audit Report has been prepared for the
First Agricultural Training Project. This audit (SecM80-527, dated June 30,
1980) states that the project was well conceived and successfully implemen-
ted. Other points of interest are: (a) the need for more advanced project



- 14 -
preparation before approval; (b) the over-provision of technical assistance
manr-years; and Cc) the shortage of housing for teaching staff. These
lessons have been taken into consideration in the design of the proposed
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The proposed project was prepared by AAETE with Bank and UNESCO
assistance. A Bank mission appraised it in September/October 1982.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from May 5-6, 1983. The
Indonesian delegation was led 'y Mr. Salmon Padmanagara, Director-General
of AAETE. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4367-IND) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
39.       The project constitutes the third phase of the Government-s long-
term strategy to improve quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. The project would provide funds for civil works, furniture,
equipment, technical assistance and fellowships to:
(a) improve and expand preservice agricultural training through
assistance to: (i) about 30 existing provincial SPPs; (ii)
8 new state SPPs; and (iii) a new outstation for the existing
Fishery Training Institute;
(b) upgrade and expand inservice training programs for agricul-
tural staff through: (i) the establishment of four new agricul-
tural inservice training centers (ISTCs); and (ii) support to
one existing fishery ISTC;
(c) expand the supply of locally adapted information materials
for agricultural extension programs and training institutions
through the establishment of 15 new provincial agricultural
information centers (AICs); and
(d) strengthen management and planning services for agricultural
training through: (i) establishment of a Center for Agricultural
Manpower Development at the existing National Agricultural
Training Institute; (ii) pre-investment studies (to be managed by
th,e Center); and (iii) provision of training for AAETE planning
staff.



- 15 -
Components
40.       Preservice Training.  The main focus of this component is improve-
ment in the quality and internal efficiency of provincial SPPs. The
objective would be to lower repeater rates and increase examination pass
rates and to bring both rates closer to those of the state SPPs. To this
end the project would address existing deficiencies in facilities 2nId
teaching equipment, land for agricultural practice and teacher quc,:Fica-
tions. The project would continue the assistance provided to provincial
SPPs under the Second Agricultural Training Project by financing additional
facilities, furniture and equipment to a further 30 provincial schools,
including 12 unimproved SPPs in the Other Islands. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, each
provincial SPP to be provided with physical facilities would have a total
land area of no less than 7.5 ha on Java and 15 ha outside Java (Section
3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       The project would also finance the establishment of eight new
state SPPs in the Other Islands. In line with increased government priori-
ties in the forestry and fishery sectors, two SPPs would provide training in
forestry, four in marine fishing and one in brackish-water fishing. The
remaining school, to be located in a province with no existing SPP, would
offer a broad-based agricultural curriculum.
42.       The project would provide the Fishery Training Institute with an
outstation on the coast of West Java and a deep-sea training vessel with a
capacity for 60 trainees. These facilities would permit an increase in the
total institute capacity from 400 to 600 students. The present curriculum
and staffing of the Institute is satisfactory.
43.       The SPPs would use the curricula developed under the First and
Second Agricultural Training Projects which allow for the inclusion of
optional subjects adapted to local conditions and requirements. The state
SPPs would continute to be responsible for supervising teacher performance,
curriculum implementation, on-farm practice, and administration of examina-
tions in the prTvincial and private SPPs. The Teacher Training Center
established under the Second Agricultural Training Project would provide
inservice training to all teaching staff in the project schools by the
completion of the project.
44.       All project SPPs would have a standard capacity of 240 students.
Due to improved facilities and increases in efficiency, the output of the
provincial schools is expected to increase from about 1,900 to 2,300. On
completion, the capacity of the eight new state SPPs would be 1,920 with an
annual output of 640. The project would provide two man-years of technical
assistance, 450 manr-years of local training and 32.5 man-years of overseas
fellowships for SPP and Fisl-ery Institute staff to be trained in teaching
methods and subject matter.



- 16 -
45.       Inservice Training.  A new agricultural ISTC would be established
in each of four provinces in the Cther Islands where no ISTC presently
exists. Additional facilities and equipment would also be provided to
strengthen training at one existing fishery ISTC. Each new ISTC would be
located adjacent to an existing state SPP under a single administration in
order to maximize efficient utilization of staff and facilities. Under the
project, total ISTC capacity would increase from 3,273 to 3,515 places. In
addition to provision of remedial training for underqualified staff and
administrative and promotional training required for all staff, each ISTC
would provide skill-upgrading courses in technical and management subjects
relevant to the particular agricultural needs and priorities of the
province, such as the extension methods courses developed under the Bank-
assisted National Agricultural Extension Program. Each ISTC would have a
training capacity of 2,520 man-weeks and, based on an average course of six
weeks, would train about 420 provincial staff annually- Each ISTC would
have five qualified full-time instructors, assisted by other MOA senior
staff in the teaching and design of specific courses. About 16 manr-years of
fellowships would be provided to train ISTC instructors in subject matter
and teaching methods.
46.       Agricultural Information Centers.  In line with Government aims to
provide an AIC for each province, the project would establish an AIC in each
of 15 provinces where no AIC is presently located. The AICs would produce
printed and audio-visual materials to keep agricultural extension staff,
farmers and training institutions informed of agricultural developments and
research. Each AIC would be located near to the provincial headquarters of
the agricultural extension services. A director and five subject matter
specialists, responsible for assembling research findings into packages of
practices suitable for extension, would be appointed to each AIC. Staff
would receive training in communications in a two-year program being
established at the Institut Pertanian Bogor with assi3tance from USAID.. In
addition, 26 manryears of fellowships would be provided under the project.
47.       Management and Planning.  This component would strengthen AAETE
capacity to analyse the skill levels of agricultural staff, develop improved
training programs to overcome identified skill deficiencies, and plan for
manpower development as a service to the various 140A agencies.
48.       The project would establish a Center for Agricultural Manpower
Development within the exf-ting National Agriculti-ral Training Institute.
The Center would have a full-time professional staff of 30, of whom about
half will have received overseas training under the Second Agricultural
Training Project and will be assigned to the Center from the National Office
of METE or other AAETE-managed institutions.  The Center would be respon-
sible for developing and implementing a program coviering five areas of
activity: (a) evaluation of existing training programs and tracer studies of
graduates of METE training institutions; (b) surveys of the qualificaticns
and technical and managerial skill levels of agricultural manpower;



- 17 -
(c) identification of training needs; (d) development of curricula for
agricultural training programs; and (e) development of appropriate learning
materials. The results of the studies carried out by the proposed Center
would be used by the AAETE Planning Division and Bureaus in improved
planning for agricultural manpower development and utilization. Under the
project, office and library facilities would be provided for the Center.
The project would also provide 25 manr-years of fellowships and funds for
pre-investment studies to be managed by the Center, including the monitoring
and evaluation of project activities. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that GOt would submit to the Bank for comment: (a) a staffing
plan for the renter by December 31, 1983; and (b) an annual work program for
the Center (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The project would also strengthen the capacity of the Planning
Division of AAETE to: (a) create and manage irformation systems providing
data on a regular basis on MOA manpower needs in relation to the quality and
quantity of the existing stock; (b) coordinate manpower development and
training with the Directorates-General, the MOA Bureau of Personnel and with
the provinces, particularly to link more closely skill training to provin-
cial agricultural development needs; (c) analyze manpower data and factors
relevant to the effective utilization of staff; and (d) develop strategies
and programs for development and improved utilization of staff. The present
20 planning staff in AAETE would be increased to 35 by 1985. Under the
project 2 man-years of technical assistance and 16 manyears of fellowships
would be provided. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI
would submit a staffing plan for the Planning Division to the Bank for
comment by D-cember 31, 1983, and that it would review the planning capa-
bilities of ti.e Divirion and submit a proposal to the Bank by December 31,
1984 for the strengthening of the Planning Division (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreemeat;'.
Management and Implementation
50.       The project would be implemented by AAETE, which has successfully
implemented the First and Second Agricultural Training Projects. AAETE
staff responsible for project implementation would be adequate to implement
two projects simultaneously, as the Second Project's complscion date is
scheduled for June 1984 and most of the physical facilities have already
been completed. Provincial committees, representing the departments of
Agriculture, Public Works and Home Affairs, were established under the
Second Agricultural Training Project to assist with implementation. This
arrangement proved satisfactory and the committees will continue their role
under the proposed project.
51.       Architectural and engineering services required for the project
would be carried out by local consultants acceptable to the Bank. As far as
practicable, design and construction standards established for the Second
Agricultural Training Project would be used in the Third Project. About 90%



- 18 -
of project institution sites have been identified. Sites have been acquired
for the first phase of construction (comprising about 17 provincial SPPs in
Java and Bali) which is expected to begin in November 1983. Furniture and
equipment lists would be based to a large extent on those prepared for the
Second Agricultural Training Project. The implementation period would be
approximately 6-1/2 years. All construction and furniture and equipment
procurement is expected to be completed by June 1987. Consultant services
and fellowships would be completed by December 1988.
Status of Project Preparation
52.       The project is in an advanced stage of preparation.  AAETE has
selected architects using funds under Ln. 1692-IND and is already adequately
staffed to implement the project. Bid documents would follow the pattern
developed for the Second Agricultural Training Project and bids for the
first phase civil works would be invited in mid-1983. Furniture and equip-
ment lists were reviewed at negotiations and related tendering is expected
to begin in late 1983. Terms of reference for specialists were also
reviewed at negotiations. Institutions for 70% of overseas fellowships have
been identified.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       Total project cost is estimated at $105.4 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
$46.4 million or 44% of total project cost. Physical contingencies repre-
sent 10% and price contingencies 35% of base costs. Price contingencies are
calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and estimated on the
basis of the implementation schedule and the following expected annual
increases in prices: local - 20% for 1983, 15% for 1984, 11% for 1985, and
7% for subsequent years; foreign - 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985
and 6% for subsequent years.
54.       Base cost estimates refer to May 1983 prices and because of the
tax exempt status of the implementing agency do not include taxes. Con-
struction, furniture and equipment costs have been estimated on the basis of
recent contract awards in the Second Agricultural Training Project. The
accommodation schedules on which the cost estimates are based are functional
and appropriate for the project's objectives. Based on Jakarta prices, the
average construction cost per square meter gross area for SPPs is $185 and
the cost per student place for academic and communal facilities is $2,200.
Site development costs have been estimated at an average of 20% of construc-
tion costs. An average regional adjustment has been applied to the civil
works cost (site development and construction). Consultant fees for archi-
tectural services and for preparing equipment specifications are being
financed out of loan proceeds of the Second Agricultural Training Project.
Site supervision, estimated as 4% of civil works costs, would be financed
out of loan proceeds for this project. Unit costs for technical assistance



- 19 -
are estimated at an average of $8,500 per manmmonth for foreign consultants
(inclusive of salaries, allowances and international airfare), $1,600 per
manr-month for overseas felluwships, and $215 per mamonth for in-country
training. The proposed Bank loan of $63.3 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, would finance 6UR of the total project cost. The
Government contribution would be $42.1 million.
Recurrent Costs
55.       The incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project
are estimated at about $5.5 million equivalent per year by 1988/89 (19P 7/83
prices) when the project is expected to be fully operational. This would
represent 17% of the projected combined development and routine budgets of
AAETE. These amounts are consistent with government plans and expectations.
Procurement
56.       Contracts for civil works, furniture a-id equipment would be
grouped to the extent practicable to increase bidding competition. Civil
works contracts at 60 sites would amount to about $61.6 million equivalent
including contingencies, of which contracts estimated to cost above
$2.5 million each would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding, and the remainder on the basis of local competitive bidding. Based
on experience from previous education projects in Indonesia and since conr
struction sites are spread over a wide geographical area all bids are expec-
ted to be local and foreign firms are unlikely to be interested. However,
each region has sufficient contractors to provide adequate competition under
local competitive bidding procedures. Equipment packages of $100,000 equi-
valent or more would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment items which cannot be
grouped to form bid packages of $100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding, under government procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate total value not
exceeding $2.0 million equivalent (about 10% of the total equipment value).
Miscellaneous equipment items in packages not exceeding $50,000 equivalent
and subject to an aggregate total not exceeding $0.7 million could be
purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least three price quotations.
Instructional materials and books would be procured through direct purchase
after negotiation for discounts. Furniture and vehicles would be financed
entirely by the Borrower.
57.       Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture and equipment indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Prior Bank review would be
required of awards for civil works contracts above $1.5 million each (esti-
mated as 23% of the total value of contracts) and for equipment contracts
above $100,000 each (estimated as 75% of tot2l value). When ICB is used,
domestic manufacturers of equipment would be allowed a 15% preference
margin, or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation.



- 20 -
Locally established consulting firms which have undertaken similar assign-
ments for and have a good working relationship with the Government are
expected to be selected. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
GOT would employ consultants in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Maintenance.  Earlier Bank-financed agricultural training facili-
ties have been well-maintained. The Government generally provides an
adequate annual budget for maintenance of physical facilities. It is under-
stood that the Government would allocate sufficient funds for the mainte-
nance of the proposed project-s facilities, including the training vessels.
Disbursements
59.       The proposed loan of $63.3 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six-and-a-half years.  Disbursements would be on the basis
of: (a) 70% of total expenditures of civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f.
costs of imported equipment and the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
equipment and 60% of imported equipment procured locally; and (c) 100% of
the costs of consultant services and fellowships. To the extent practi-
cable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in an amount of $100,000
or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan.
Auditing and Reporting
60.       AAETE would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
project expenditures. Auditing would be performed by an auditor satisfac-
tory to the Bank and annual audit reports would be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that GOI would comply with these review and
reporting arrangements (Sections 3.04 and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
61.       The main benefit of the proposed project would be to promote
agricultural development by increasing the provision of well-trained agri-
cultural technicians. At full operation, the project would increase
enrollments of SPPs by 18% to 11,140 places and expand ISTC capacity by
about 12% to 4,000 places. Some 25% of increased output would result from
new and expanded facilities in the Other Islands. The project would also
improve the quality and quantity of agricultural extension materials
available to extension agents and farmers. Further, the project would
strengthen AAETE's capacity to carry out quality control, training needs
analysis and long-range planning in order to improve the overall training
system and staff deve'lopment for the MOA.



- 21 -
62.       The proposed project would be a follow-up to the First and Second
Agricultural Training Projects. The first project was successfully comple-
ted and the second has made good progress under an experienced implementa-
tion unit. There is some risk that the Government will not provide suffi-
cient additional resources to the MAETE Planning Division for it to expand
its capacity as required. However, the estahlishment of the proposed Center
for Agricultural Manpower Development is expected to greatly increase the
overall analytical capacity of AAETE and would support the planning func-
tion. There is also some risk that, due to increased budgetary constraints,
the Government may try to reduce the operating costs and thereby lower the
standards for training agricultural technicians. The emphasis of the
project on improving the quality and internal efficiency of existing SPPs
rather than on expansion will help to minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 30, 1983
Uashington, D.C.



- 22 -
--              ~            ~ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 page.
IIDONCSIA              - SOCIAL IIDICATORS DATA SIflT
INDONCSIA                            RUttIERC SoUPS (IElTID AmasAs) IN
NOST                      (N6T R CCET iSTINAU) /b
/b     /b  RD~WET            mom  imWLE  ID          "L    INsC41
~~  ~       P.S?DIATSLk~/     ASI: PACIFI                  ICMR A ACART3
196-      1970_1  CSTW4TI-          LS    eii             AT. AMERiC      AI
AURA (THOAIID SQ. 34)
TOTAL                             1919.3      1919.3      1919.3
ACRICULTURAL                       266.0       307.1       317.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   90.0       130.0       530.0             1023.6                   205.2
355G CON611M1ION R3 CAPIrA
(RILnCRANS OF COAL EQUIVALEN'T)    129.0       1413.0      266.0              792.3                   1407.6
HFOILATXOU AM VITAL STATISTICS
POP[ltATtON.NID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  946nso.t   116201.0   149451.n
URSAN PDPlILATION (C OF TOTAL)      14.6        17.1        20.6               32.9                    65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPU.ATION IN YTAR 20no (HILL)                           215.7
STATIONARY POPULATION ("ILL)                             399.5
YEAR STATIObARY POP. REACHED                             2140
POPUILATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1m.                       49.3        60.5        76.2              260.7                    35.6
PrR SQ. XH. AGES. LAND           355.9      317.4        461.2             1696.5                    93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 FRS                         40.7        44.0        39.6               39.4                    40.1
1s-A4 YRS                         56.2        53.4        57.1              57.2                     55.3
45 AND ASOVE                       3.1         2.5         3.1                3.3                     4.1
POPULATION GROWHN RATE (t)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.0         2.3               2.3                      2.3
URBA.TI                            3.7         3.6        4LU                 3.9                     3.7
CRUDE BnRlEl RATE (PER THOSM)       45.8        40.7        34.6               fl.3                     31.5
CRUDF DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)        22.5        17.2        t3.1                9.6                      9.1
CRnsS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.7         2.2                2.0                     2.0
FAunly PLANNINC
A.CCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)          . .      11 .1      3051.0
I'SERS CZ OF IIASNIED WOEN)         ..         0.2        36.0              46.6
FM  AND UTRITION
IIDrEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(19469-71-100)                      93.0       102.0       122.0              125.2                   113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REUJIREM0ENTS)     86.G        94.0       110.0              126.2                   I11.3
PRRTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          13.0        42.0        49.0               57.9                    67.9
OF WHICII ANIMAL AND PULSE        6.0         6.0         7.0/C             14.1                     34.1
CHTLIJ (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        22.9        16.9        13.7                7.6                      5.3
UMALTH
LIVE FXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       41.2        47.3        53.5               60.2                    64.6
INFANT MOST. RATE (PER THOUS)      149.9       120.9       105.0              68.1                     62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                .         3.0        23.0               37.1                    6.8
[IREAl                              .         10.0        41.0               54.3                    77.3
tItRAI.                             *.         1.0        13.0              26.4                     44.3
ACCESY Tm EXCRFTA DISPOSAL
;r nF POPILATION)
TOTAL                               *         15.0        23.0               41.4                     54.6
"?RHAN                               .        19.0        20.0              47.5                     69.3
RIIRAL                              *         14.0        24.0               13.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         46730.o    26510.0    11530.0               7771.9                  1774.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           4510.0/f   7680.0       2300.0             2462.6                   1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1360.0      1650.0      1610.0/d           1047.2                   :7f.0
URBAN                            250.0          o. 70n.07                   Gsn.                    647.5
RURAL                               *-          .       3160. oT7d         2591.9                  1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .          ..        22.4/.             27.0                    27.t
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         4.8
URBAN                              4.9         5.3
RURAL                              4.3         4.7
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               *          1.5
URBAN                               ..         1.6
RIWPAL                               *         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               **
URBAN                               ..          ..
RIURJL                              ..          ..



- 23                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
lSOKESIA              - SOCLL IKoICLTOrS DAn SIEEr
t DONESIA                           REFEREN   CuiwS (WEICED AERCES) a
lDSr                    (KIST  ECET ESTIMATE) b
l90b         /b    =ETr X         xDOUE tED             ItEDDlE sCOtS
1960   170- Enlb        _StA G PaC vaC      LAT. AMERICA 4 CAst
EWJCAU
ADJUSTED CIROLLMT RATIOS
PRLIARY:  TOTAL                  71.0        77.0       98.0             101.2                   105IS
MALE                  86_0        8130       104.0             106.0                  lOb3
FEMALE                 58.0       71.0        91.0              97.5                   103.6
SLCOUMAKY: rOT!.L                 b.0        15.0       Z8.0              44.9                    4L _
-ALE                   10.0       20.0        33.0              50.0                    3t 6
FE.ALE                  3.0       10.0        22.0              44.6                    41.:
VOCATIGMAL CZ OF SEWEDgAY)         20.4       2Z.1        I5.5               W8.5                   34.4
PUPIL-TEAC2EX LATtO
PaLntLfy                         39.0       2S.0        34.0              32.7                    30.7
SEC&O3RDAY                       14.0        13.0       16.0              23.4                    16.7
ALsr LITERACY RATE (Z)             39.0        5b.6       b2.01  -          72.                     79.5
PASSNca CARw/THOUSAD POP            1           -1 Z       3d&               Y.7                    45.6
RADIO ILECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       7.2       21.9        42.4             113.7                   228.2
TV RECELVERS/TIOUISAD POP           0.1         0.8        9.6              50.1                    10.S3
NEWSPAPER  (ODALLY G6iERAL
ITEREST-) CLRCJLAXTLO
PER TDlSASO POPULTIIOS            11.0          __       17_71d            54.0                    64.1
CtYiDA ANNUAL ATTERSCICAPlTA        2.8          ..        0.8ec             3.4                     2.9
TOtAL LABOR FORCE (Tnw0s)       31491.0    41090.0    53604.0
FEruLE (PERCENT)                 27.8        30.9       29.2              33.6                    24.8
ACIICULTURE (PERCENT)            75.0        66.0       55.0              50.9                    31.3
trSTisY (PERCENT)                 8.0        10.0       15.0              19.Z                    23.9
PARTICIPATIoN aATE (PERCENT)
rOTAL                            36.7        35.4       35.9              38.6                    31.3
KALE                             54.2        49.5       51.1              50.7                    49.b
FEMALE                           20.0        21b6       2tUS              26.6                    14.8
ECOWOIC UEP&NUESCr RATIO            1.2         L.3        L.2               1.1                     1.4
isc D151811"M
PERlCE;sT OF PtIVATE I;COMt
rECEIVED By
4ICAEST S OF 3iOUSEHOLOS           _                   23 51d            22-2
diUHEST 02 UF W:AiLOS             ..          ..       *9.47;j           48.0
LiSes  ZOO OF SOUSeSOLDS           ..          ..        6.614             6.4
LOSEST 40; OF uIOUSEIIOLWS         ..          .        14.Crd            15.5
ESrTIMATED A8SULUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSAR                               _                  136.ONg           194.5                   789.8
RURAL                              ..          .        I2.OL&            155.0                  184.5
ESrLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LIME
LeVEL (USS PER CapiTA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      119.O             178.0                  519.8
RUKAL                              ..          ..       98.0              164.8                  372.1
ESTIMATED POP. RELDW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBA                               ..          ..       28.0jg            24.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       51.07j            41.1
.. SOT AVAILABLE
.aor APPLICABLE
/a The group averages for each indicator are populatlon.wLghted aritrhetic runm. Coverage of cuuntrics -ong the
Lndicators depends on availablLty of data and Is not unlforu.
/b  Lnless otherwise noted. Data for 19i0  refer to any year between 1959 and 19bl; -ats for 1970U between 1969 and
1971: and data for -Mlnst Recent Estlate  between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; 1e 19 5; If 1962; A  1978.
Mav 1983



j.                                            __7  00~~~~~~fba     lbi  Is 1As-T   ab-d-  *l-.a             :I4bAl      -WJ
-ml Alj~~~~~ o2ftt-                         -lbqA    Z*lb- p- (9-131.   b2-aA)IbAa  9al5-bb-
4a.-bbmaA~'*~l  ~      -al dl   -     lb                       *5LZabpaS   nPW                     ~     .i.-.a.9a  j-  -                      rbnC
W..~   a.b~.p   III  ,...           -Ai~W.  I-a Id-i--plI:b                      ba.l             ..i1    .a..     -a.
J.     J.l                       56b-tb,A                P1u -b9   .t   lai-    *6           .           b
-        ---             b----d4P    l1P*ilb-11la                                                  l    Ila     -         . . Idd-   b-  IbI4   *l           Al% lb  -b
--  ~ 4.6.4  3 la-I  b1.,a.a  -b13-bb9             b-9~p XII Pa(.111fl99   I.qai. -    pb9~bl iC  a.  . as
* :~~~-l            I-b--                 *b3 a~~~~~--------------  II   '
A?b . -!b'Ib-  J.b   lbq. - bIin-;   .a-Ip.ba.
~1~-b  ..a...a...aaz.,...aa,.Aad                                    .iSb3..l.A-Q-14.a.3            41b P.Ii4Z,3b-1l
~b--34  .   1                    .      ~     a. .4'1b.b-  ;I-b1.AIAlbl3ta.~l,.l._.apl'
1,13   - Aab   51'fl   ~   *   ..a .0 *...   . *9a        a
~flJ~; ~.'t  -4-a  3l4            lbA-PSdb   lf.A-a1.   b.  bbn   *4* d.tl-SVi4
-- ~ ~ ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       P                                  W -3 --l5   11..iblAlb4,bA  l1   ul5   41  1'   fb4, ~I   lb    l
..'al.a n   SI *ab-A    9i1   -.na  at-  b-b 9 .;..id  :;n- ;
*   4,-' -ab.1i a..a-.b-.~..  b.fl..ISb                                               1I   n daa    f-    -*a        bn1a                  a   n.1b.p-..
- I.  -ba . .b-  (5  99   Ab   lblbl..                                       4311T*      p.b,    At4   a3r  b  bl-b.tab1b
la.....lla  lb.~  I.' blb  ~4I J~..3. .4                 pb  *b3- 4b        p.    p   *lu  M   3.b-aA3-lbI P           A  0. b *,-Idj
Ia.     IISdbA a          baAl-4                  ~ib   *   p.a    oa5931.b   11-iI.Al.blf
-  -b~i I-l 4  l-  :-. 44 1'    a.    SlA'l 114               ~            n. -   bll    b 3-b  Ab-*i~'   a~             9aM  3.; l  S1f.b a
.Cbp  1.13 -boill   fl3a~AA   a.~ IbbIbflb-l'a4  - lbId     .b   *fb a                  11*b-;. 
ta.I  b-n-  *   ap.    alla~1 lb                                ~-3-al  p. ~1%llb   1-Mlbl..-lb
-,  .a.  .'-;    T flfT~f  baA_                             Af. b-s-     I.   NIs bb9-b  .aA   -nIlb-a-fbbpb
a4.baj  lfAfl                            11  -                                   -I    I -.1-
Il?lb::    -.:  ..bt- 31 -AT-4   flb~~bl 
~I~*11             *   ab-    ,.a   ..4b9-l  lb*p                  '9l*4    i Z4p
9-4.1-. ~ bll .ab;  *3bb blbilb-. blI                            .      -b-4lb   313P.ab.-l~4ab      b9-~*.  n-Ab-I
~  bl* b'bb19 ..b-9  nbj ~ *l~)13lP  i.la   aa. bl44~~    b4-b  i-                   Z9-i9       3 a
- ..- . -  . MA. a~a. ~':m.. -  *             ~           pa. P... *9WWI b11-sbba    b  4lbz- f9  -  -- 
S   jo     z2u               -         ...-aj.4                  . .                                                   -_______
I    X                                                                                                                              4-.4;:.NNVCVdbA



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of S pages
Population       147.4 mlilon (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita: US$580 (1982 esttiate)
INDONESU - ECONOYIC INDICA TOS
Amount                               Annual growth rate (:) /a
(million USS at
current prices)                    Actual                      Estimate          Projected
indicator                         1981          1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   198.  198Z   1983   1984   1985
NATIONKL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product lb      84,932          5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.6   0.1    1.5    5.2    6.2
Agrtculture                  20.794          0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    3.5    3.5   2.6    3.1    3.1
Industry                     35.634          5.6  11.1   14.Z    8.7    7.1   1Z.5    9.0  -6.3    1.3    9.5   9.2
Services                     28.503         10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.7    5.6    1.0    2.0    5.0
Consumptdon                    65,305          6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6  13.1   15.7   Z1.7    0.5    0.1    2.8
Gross investent                17,506         14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7    8.2   12.9  -11.9    1.1    8.6
Exports of cGMS                Z3,410         -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0  -0.1   -5.7   -3.3  -13.7    1.1   12.5  11.0
Imports of GffFS               21,290         11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9  24.3    3.3  -14.8  -8.8    2.3
Gross national savings         16.426        -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -20.0  -11.8   25.5   26.8  21.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                      166    190    214    238    315    407    447    49L    590    678    753
Exchangi rate                                  415   415    415    462    623    627    632    661    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices CZ)
(at current prices)                             Average annual increase (2) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990     1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product     100    100    100    100    100    100         3.9         8.4        7.4        5.0        5.4
Agriculture               54    47      3Z     Z5    24       Z3        2.7         4.1        3.3        3.5        3.8
Industry                  14    18      34     43     42     4Z         5.2        12.0        9.8        5.7        5.9
Services                  32     35     35     32     34      35        4.8         9.7        9.5        5.8        5.8
Consumption               91     89     79    71      76      73        4.1         8.4        9.2        5.5        5.1
Gross investment           8     14     20    21      22      23        4.8        18.3       12.2        5.7        6.4
Exports of GIPS           13    13      23     31     23      25        3.6         9.2        2.9       -0.1        4.8
Imports of CNFS          -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -21         3.2        22.1       14.0        3.0        4.9
Gross national savings     8      9     17     26    20       24        6.1        23.i       14.2        1.3       14.9
As Z of CDP
1960         1970          1975          1980          1982
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                              11.7        10.1           17.4          22.5          23.3
-     Current expenditures                                          14.0         8.4            9.9           1Z.8          11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                    -2.3        +1.6           +7.5          +9.7         +11.4
Capital expenditure                                           n.a.         5.0           11.3          13.0          14.6
Foreign financing                                             0.2          3.5            3.7           3.3           3.1
1960-70        1970-75           1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDlCATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (2)                          4.5             7.6               7.1            4.7            6.5
Annual GNP per capita grovth rate (:)                2.4            5.1               4.7            2.3             4.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)            2.2           11.2              11.0            5.6             4.9
ICOR                                                 2.2            2.2               3.3            5.5            4.5
Marginal savings rate                               0.30            0.48              0.28           0.18           0.3
Import elsticity                                     1.2            2.8               0.84           0.22           0.96
/a At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981. and 1981 prices for 1982-1985.
lb At market prices.
/c  Central Goverment only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                  East Asia and Pacific Programs
June 1. 1983



PopulatIon        :;4?_;4 million (mld-1980)                      -26-                                            AMu  I
CSP per Captta:  JSS580 (1982 estimate)                                                                            Pa- S of s page
IND?NESIA -AlANCE Or PATHEIMS, E1TERNAL CAMT"AI. AND DINT
(Mil long uSS at current prices)
Actual                     Estt ate                Yro1ected
Indicator                  1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982       1983     1984      1985     1990
BALAhCE OF FAM'SEStS /a
1.  Exports                           10,861   11.353   18,510   22.885   22.994    19.385   17.483   20.776   25.971   47.284
(a) Oil 5. LNG (Sgzss)             7.354    7.374   12,340   17.297   18,824    15.631   13.182   15,393   186247   32.866
(b)  Nor.ol                        3.507    3,979    6,171    5.587    4.170        3.754    4.301   S,33    6.460   14.418
2.  !=ports  :Inclucding net NFS)    -10,686  -11.493  -13.205  -17.589  -22.635   -22.681  -20.502  -20,586  -22.711  -39.666
(a)  011 sector                   -2.909   -3,364   -2.940   -4.050   -5.407    -5.468   -4.551   -4,212   -4,347   -6.769
(b)  ';ono1 i-ports              -7.241   -7.543   -9.028  -11.837  -14.561   -14.803  -13,986  -14,595  -16,708  -30.962
cf)  ':FS (net)                     -536      -566   -1,237   -1,702   -2.667    -2.411   -1,965   -1.779   -1,656   -1,935
3.  Resiurce balance                      175     -140    5.305    5,296       359    -3.296   -3,019        191    1.996    7.619
4.  Factor servIces                     -865   -1.015   -3.106   -3.165   -3.149    -3.466   -3.481   -4.119   -4.980   -86194
(a)  interest public debt           -441      -485     -635      -724     -820       -998   -1.271   -1.S5O   -1.918   -2.473
Ib)  trer (net)                    -424      -530   -2.471   -2.441   -2.329    -2.468   -2,210   -2,539   -3,062   -S.71
5.  rapltal g rants                       66        46        52       76       67        100      1O0       100      100       100
6.  Salance on currect account          -624   -1.109    2.198    2.131   -2.790    -6.762   -6.501   -3.928   -2,994          -575
7.  Direct foreign investment            285       271      217       140      139        276      350       350      400       700
8.  Public x & LT Loans
(a)  Disbursemen:                  1.956    1.638    1.939    2,864    3,203        4 98l    5.600    5,700    5.70D    7.500
(b)  :aorttation                    -825      -977   -1.335     -987   -1,001    -1,376   -1,6"   -2,D06  -2.457   -5,548
()  N;et disbursements             1.131       660      604    1.877    2.202       3.605    3.901    3.694    3.Z3    1.952
9.  G_n-er r.pitai (net)                -140       888   -1.329   -1.248      -606       -499    2.420      -225       130     -49
10.  Chang  fri reserves (- Increase)   -651       -708   -1.690   -2.736       988        28O     -270         9     -889   -1.728
11.  Net off:cial res.rves               2,208    2.916    4.606    7,342    6,354        .374    3.344    3.335    4,224    6.817
SRier-ve  in nnnths of nonoil
Imports - NFS                      3-4       4.3      5.4       6.5      4.4        2.1      2.5       2.4      2.8      2.5
Liemoranlus= :r-e
Met fT're!_n aqse:s of the banking
s:>:rrl 'h                       -        -    6,906   10.77   11.154       6,674    6144    6,135    7.024    9.617
Total reser-cs in nonths of nonoil
traorts . SFS                         3.4       4.3      8.1       9.6      7.8        4.7      4.6       4.5      4.6       3.5
'XTEP';t_ 'A-Il M A% DEBT /c
Cros3  !sburser.s s                             ?1,956    2,205    1,B65    2.536    2,359  4,383
Corcossioa-l 'oans                       442      484      433       659       792       669
Bilate-ral                             381      44B      399       611      718        587
IDA                                    49        29       30        42       69         78
Other                                   12        6         5        6         5         4
Moncnncessl.:nal Loars                 1.514    1.721    1.432    1.858    1,567       3,714
OfficIia  oxpnprt credits              218      271       61        44      165        485
tILD                                  191       168      199       331      106        713
cther .0 tilateral                      16       12       46        52       86        125
P'rtvate - source                   1,089    1,270    1.126    1,449    1,210        2,391
External Debt
Debt outstandinrg 6 disbursed Id   11.658   13.107   1234   14,882   15,529    18,350
OffIcIal - source                 7,077    8,390    8,434    9.400    9,746    10.990
rr!az:e  - snurce                 4,583    4,717    4.799    5.482    5.783        7,360
I'.dlsb,irse' debt                   445    5.39    7,932    9,454   11.557    12,221
Debt Service
otal service pa-mentn               1.262    2,062    2,100    1,772    1.974        2.277
Irterenr                            441       514      771       819      973      1.132
Pa:rents -as   e-ports /e            11.6      18.2     11.3       7.7      9.0       11.7
Average interest Rate on Kew Loans
(1)                                   6.3       7.6      6.6       8.2      8.6        9.4
OfficIal - source                      5.6      4.6      5.0       5.5      7.9        9.0
Private  - source                     8.6      10.2      8.6      12.3      9.2        9.7
Average Maturity of Mev Loans
(Years)                              20.5      18.0     18.6      18.6     15.Z       15.0
Official - source                    23.8      30.1     24.8      24.4     20.8       20.6
Private  - source                     9.1       6.7     11.0       9.9     10.6       10.8
AsM s  of debt outstanding at end of 1982
flat*,ritv structure of debt outstanding
4atur cies due within 5 years                                                                          40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                         69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                         5,7
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basts.
T7  tncludes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
T1  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.                                                            East Asia and Pacific Progr_s
71- A&  end of period.                                                                                        June 1. 1983
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page L of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
USS million
Loan/                                                             Amount
Credit Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number  Year               Purpose                      Bank    'IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5          -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea       -        7.8         0.5
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate            -       16.5        4.7
479     19 74   Bali Tourism                            -       16.0        0.4
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                         65.0     -          6.7
1179     19 76   Agricultural Research & Extension       21.5     -          0.1
119 7    19 76   National Resource Survey & Mapping      13.0    -           3.0
1236     19 76   Fourth Highway                         130.0     -          6.9
1237     1976   Fourth Education                         37.0     -          4.4
1250     1976   Second Shipping                          54.0     -          1.8
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension            22.0     -          0.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                       33.0     -           6.3
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0       -          0.3
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                 52.5     -           5.1
1337     19 77   Tanjung Priok Port                      32.0    -           9.0
1365     1977   Sixth Power                             116.0     -         28.4
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                    13.0     -          2.8
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education         19.0     -          7.2
1434     19 77   Eighth Irrigation                       63.0     -         28.8
1435     19 77   Ninth Irrigation                        35.0     -          4.4
1472     1977   Second Population                        24.5     -          7.1
148 6    19 78   Nono-Formal Education                   15.0     -          4.0
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders 1       65.0    -          23.9
1513     1978   Seventh Power                            94.0     -          29.7
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development              -      40.0        9.1
1578     19 78   Tenth Irrigation                       140.0     -         106.8
1579     19 78   Eleventh Irrigation                     31.0     -          14.0
827     1978   Rural Credit                              -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II        65.0     -          48.6
8 69    19 79   Polytechnic                              -      49 .0       24.1
1645     19 79   Twelfth Irrigation                      77.0    -           47.2
1653     1979   Third Urban Development                  54.0     -          23.1
898     19 79   Fifth Technical Assistance               -      10.0         8.7
1691     1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control        50.0     -          29.6
1692     1979   Second Agricultural Training             42.0     -          13.2
169 6    19 79   Fifth Highway                          123.2     -          74.8
1703     19 79   Fourth BAPINDO                          50.0     -          9.1



ANNEX II
-28-                    Tage 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                            Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                            (less cancellations)
Number  Year              Purpose                      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
919    19 79   Transmigration II                       -      67.0        23.0
1707    19 79   Transmigration II                      90.0     -         88.1
1708    1979   Eighth Power                           175.0     -          77.5
179    1979   Second Water Supply                     36.0    -           24.2
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development             -       12.0        9.6
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III      99.0     -          63.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development           -       45.0       34.4
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                     -       45.0       28.9
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II        -       42.0       36.4
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                  116.0     -         84.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV       42.0     -          35.3
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research          35.0    -           35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research           -      30.0        24.4
1869    1980   Third Population                        35.0     -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                            253.0     -        203.6
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development         46.0     -          40.6
19 04    1981   University Development                 45.0     -          43.9
1950    1981   Tenth Power                            250.0     -         177.7
1958   19 81   Swamp Reclamation                       22.0     -          18.1
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                43.0    -           38.8
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V       161.0     -         150.4
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development  106.0       -          24.1
27049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway               85.0     -         85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                         170.0     -         167.8
2066    1982   Second Seeds                            15.0    -           14.9
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport              185.0    -         158.4
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                100.0     -         98.9
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                 80.0     -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                         25.0     -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                    37.0     -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                  70.0     -          66.3
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution        66.0    -           64.1
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI          68.1     -          67.0
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering            25.0     -          24.6
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                5.5    -            5.5
Engineering Project
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /a                       300.0     -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /a 154.6      -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health                       27.0     -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation           22.4     -          22.4
/a  Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-29-                  Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                            Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                            (less cancellations)
Number   Year             Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
2248    1983   Transmigration III                     101.0     -         101.0
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development       30.0     -         30.0
Project
Total Bank loans and IDA credits            5,246.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                   -200.11   -7.69
Total now outstanding                       5,046.49  924.11
Amount sold to third party           28.24
Amount repaid by third party        -27.21     -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA Ia           5,045.46  924.11
Total undisbursed                           3,082.70  207.90   3,290.60
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                              Type of           Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor               business          --  (US$ million) -
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement            10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                 Textiles           2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles            2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia        Cable              2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.        Textiles            4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism            11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.4      0.7       6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles            2.0       0.3       2.3
.974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics        0.9        -        0.9
1974  P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -       0.5       0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles           2.4       0.6       3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.0      1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement               -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.        Textiles            0.4        -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles           1.3       0.2       1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                Textiles           0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera        Capital Market     4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries          Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas          Cement and
Inidonesia          Construction
Material          48.0       5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market      4.0       0.3       4.3
Total gross commitments                         118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled               79.6      5.7      85.3
Total held by IFC                                 39.2     12.3      51.5
Undisbursed (including participant-s portion)   16.7          -      16.7



-31-                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECrS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
?agc No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                 6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 2248, 499, 1604, 1751,           10-13
1835, 2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                      14
Rural Development (946)                                                     15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                               1516
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102, 2258)         16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)          20-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                             22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                        22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                  23
Health (2235)                                                               23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                           24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                              24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                           25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     26
Ports (1337)                                                                26
Tourism  (479)                                                                26
Urlnn Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                    27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (17w  and 2236)                                28-29
/1  These notes are designed to inform  the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-32-                ANNEX It
Page 6 of 29 pages
D. PROJECTS IN EXECCUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 19B4
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation systen in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 8(% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation: $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Hadiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All oi the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.



-33-                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) constiuction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 9SZ completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 6Cm accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87X of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of W4ay Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently
about 3-V of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV
(Cr. 995-IND).



ANNEX II
-34-                    TaPge 8 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi -river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 582 of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date:  May 10, 1979; Closing Date:  March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of aboutllO,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 421 of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43X of
the appraisal estimate.



-35-                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on Lhe Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Mad1'-a
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tcrc.ary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekaler
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year's delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park"C master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958  Swamp Reclamation:  $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9,000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.



-36-                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 page.
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Mil:ion Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date:  August 9  1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closins Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluatfun for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been request-' from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2248 Transmigration III: $103.6 Million Loan of April 18, 1983;
Effective Date: July 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project would support studies designed to identify and
evaluate suitable land for the settlement of 250-300,000 transmigrant
families; it would settle 2,000 families adjacent to the first Bank-assisted
project in Baturaja, South Sumatra and provide needed services and facilities



-37-                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
in the existing settlement; and it would assist program development by
improving staff training, expanding agricultural research, and
providing technical assistance to monitor and improve the ecological
soundness of transmigration projects.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue Ie Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturitv, attention
needs to 'De given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983184 in Riat (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved. Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attentio'n needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly beh..nd schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over



-38-                     ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND).  Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53Z of
appraisal estimate, and 9Cg of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Suallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate (PTP X)
and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is likely by
target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53Z of
appraisal estimate, and 64Z of latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V: $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October Z1, 1981;
-losing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder cocomnt
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
Training Institnte at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate 2nd SmalIholder VI: $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project will assist the GOI-s nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The project
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PIP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period. PNP XXVII-s project implemenr
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
ticn with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government-s commitment to the project. PFP XXIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The projecL would assist the GOI-s nucleus estates and smallholders
(NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree -rops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and Wes,
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces.  It would also support the institur
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursenents had
reached $9.8 million (8SZ) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development: $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155 of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of



-40-                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
management is required as well as reduction and ratio3nalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recomnendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47X) against an estimated $9.0 million.
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in nonr-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds    $15 Millon Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



-41-
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date:  December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
ranks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement althougn high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI-s
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND).  The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financirg ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



-42-
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMRP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21Z to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI-s progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan preceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Milliop Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 7RK of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 6(Z of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth EArtcation:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



-43-
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the cu-n-itry's
principal civil service training institution.  The completed MEC  a   jec:
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less .than 5U% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractcr for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effflective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 9(o of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either-been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Nonr-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, inr-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 9C% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



-44-
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68Z of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1962 the Bank agreed to the GOI-s request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciavi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business adminr-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired.  The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, vhich as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Managemnent is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 4a% of the appraisal estimates.



-45-             A~~~NNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2101   Secoad Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Admini
tration (CEA).
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.
Loan No. 2258 Public Works Manpower Development: $30 Million Loan of
April 18, 1983; Effective Date: July 1, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The main objective of the project is to improve the effectiveness
of the Ministry of Public Works (MIPS) construction activities through
manpower training. It aims to: (a) strengthen the management of MPW staf
training and related planning activities; (b) establish a Curricula and
Materials Development Unit in the NPW; (c) expand and upgrade the MPW's
training facilities and staff training program; and (d) provide experimental
training for small and medium-sized contractors and mandors (labor
subcontractors who directly hire and supervise construction labor). A
second objective is to strengthen Government planning and managemant
capabilities through provision of fellowship for key staff of economic
and policy-making agencies.
J



-46-                  ANNEX II
P-age 20of 31 pages
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in coo-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operati
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; ClIosing Date: December 31, 198-
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.



-47-
ANtINEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have oec-'
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and eocoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank. PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The c*onsultants- performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its



ANNEX II
-48-                    Page 22 of 29 pages
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal b aring areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it
to establish investme:at priorities and define policies for its short,
mediumr and long-t-e-m strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: May 2, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
('v) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO: $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise



9ANNEX II
-49-                     Page 23 of 29 pages
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Tenn lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981. Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.
POPULATION AND HEALTI
Population
Loan No. 1472  Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983);  Effective
Date:  August 4, 1977; Closing Date:  April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory.  About 9LC  of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 9Ca  complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 5C% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54Z.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
act ivities.
Health
Loan No. 2235  Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: May 18, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of $10.5 million and work plan
have b-een completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year



-50-                    ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
thcir availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaling balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of
April 5 1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



- 51-                  ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about IOZ-15Z.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40 completed compared to 72S
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provinc'al Departments of Public Works
programs of su?port works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 198
Effective Date:  February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.  C(nsultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road wJ-ks took place in late May 1982,
s-newhat behind schedule. The project is about 3 months behind sche4ule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.
.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and



-52-                 ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  S54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Goverment-s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficienc} of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurenent ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.  The project
is essentially completed.
Ports
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port: $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted.  All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port-s performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close on December 31, 1983.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bal- Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980. The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have



- 53 -                 ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club M-ed.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development: $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
979; Effective Date: September 26, 19 79;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-INnD) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) - with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 6% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
Hay 8, L981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Clo^ing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank-s assistance to GOI-s slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program coverit-g
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33Z of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Holuku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operatiorAl performance of the enterprises.  After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress.  The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28Z of appraisal ectimate.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
Of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been P.eed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 56 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
.~~~~~~~~~~~~
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         six months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         AAETE (with Bank/Unesco
assistance)
(c)  First presentation to Bank:            November 1981
(d)  First mission to consider project:   November 1981
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:        September 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:            May 1983
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:         uctober 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, ensure that each
provincial SPP to be provided with physical facilities would
have a total land area of no less than 7.5 ha on Java and
15 ha outside Java (para. 40);
(b) submit to the Bank by December 31, 1983 a staffing plan for the
Center for Agricultural Manpower Development and for the
Planning Division of AAETE (paras. 48 and 49);
(c) submit annually to the Bank for comment a work program for the
Center for Agricultural Manpower Development (para. 48); and
(d)  review the planning capabilities of the Planning Division within
AAETE and submit a proposal to the Bank by December 31, 1984 for
the strengthening of the AAETE Planning Division (para. 49).



~~. ~~~~   Sq uth   C~~~~~~~~~~,Inq ~~~~THIRD  AORICULTURAL TRAINING  PROJECT
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                               VP PC-mk" pm""M K'/P     *.  1aiC 
L )1                                 A-Lf
Nk                                                              It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~ u1L~SU
4  ~~~~~          \*.                    -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~:'  ~~~~~~                                                                                iAL~~~~~~~~A5us
0* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~              -~tovd  irm                                                                                 rl,
I?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                   4   qeLq
.            U.                ~*l?r .WA727 






