Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12631
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2341-IND)
DECEMBER 28, 1993
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Rupiah (Rp)
May 1983 U$Sl = Rp 970
A.nnual Average Exchange Rates of Rupiah to US$1
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990   1991   1992
1026   1111   1283   16 44   1686    1770    1843   2020   2020
FISCAl, YEAR
April I - March, 31
ABBREVIA'IIONS AND ACRONY'MS
AAET         -      The Agency for Agricultural Education and Training. AAET
was renamed the Agency for Agricultural Educatiotn, Training
and Extension (AAETE) by Presidenitial Decree in 1974 and
renamed back to AAET in 1990.
AIC          -      Agricultural Information Center
AMDC         -      Agricultural Nlanpower Development Center
APP          -      Agricultural Extension Academy
AUY          -      The Fisheries Academy Pasar Mlinggu
FAO          -      Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
GOI          -      Government of lndon.sia
ISTIC        -      In-service Training Center
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOEC         -      Ministry of Education and Culture
OPEC         -      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
Repelita     -      Five-Year Development Plan (1-1969/70-1973/74, 11-1974/75-
1978/79, 111-1979/80-1983/84)
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SPP          -      Agricultural Development School (MOA)
USAID        -      Agency for International Developmenit (United States)



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Third AQricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Third
Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower. It highlights the useful role of
the resident mission in helping to overcome implementation problems.
This project was the last in a series of three assisting the Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training, the branch in Indonesia's Department of Agriculture
dealing with both pre- and in-service training of agricultural extension staff. Related
ongoing projects are addressing training needs in a specific subsector (tree crops) and
provide support to agricultural research.
Tlhe Project Completion Report gives an adequate review of project imple-
mentation and results. Most physical targets were attained or exceeded, albeit with a
delay of two years. Institutional development is rated as substantial, as AAETE and its
constituent parts have been strengthened and their capabilities widened. Given the
previous record of AAETE in securing recurrent funding for its completed projects and a
related assurance in Part II of the PCR, the project's sustainability is considered likely.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. tts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAWINIG PROJECT
(LOAN 2341-IN]D)
CONTENTS
PREFACE  .......................................                                   i
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY  .....................                               ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity  ..............................                        1
Background  ...........             .....................               1
Project Objectives and Description  .....          .............        2
Project Design and Organization .....           ...............         3
Project Implementation  ......           ...................            4
Project Results  .........           .....................              6
Project Sustainability ...........................                      7
Bank Performance  ........             ....................             9
Borrower Performance ..........................                         9
Lessons Learned  .............................                          9
Project Relationship  ...........................    10
The Role of Consultants, Suppliers
and Contractors .............................    10
Documentation and Data  ........................    11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Main Findings and Lessons Learned  .................    12
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and Credit  ....................    14
Project Timetable .............................    15
Loan Disbursements  ............. .............                        15
Project Implementation and Results (Planned vs. Actual):
Training Places and Annual Output  ....           ............    16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Staffing and Staff Training ....... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    17
Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Project Costs and Financing:
Project Costs ..........  .        .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .   .    19
Project Financing  ........  .       ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
Allocation of Loan Proceeds .......  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    21
Compliance with Loan Covenants ...... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    22
Use of Bank Resources .23
Mission Data .23
Attachments to Part III
1. Pre-service Training Institutions (SPPs) supported under the Project
2. Applicants, Enrollment and Output of SPPs, 1981/82 and 1991/92
3. In-service Training Centers (ISTCs) supported under the Project
4. Agricultural Information Centers (AICs) supported under the Project
MAP - IBPrD 16851



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TIHRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2341-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Agricultural
Training Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2341-IND in the amount of US$63.3
million was approved on July 26, 1983. The project was implemented from 1983 to
1992. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1992, two years behind schedule. Total Loan
disbursement amounted to US$62.9 million and the last disbursement was on
June 29, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations
Division, Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). Part II is a
summary of a comprehensive project version PCR prepared by the Borrower and placed
in the Bank's project files.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision of
the project in May 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan Agreement; supervision reports; progress reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TIIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2341-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objective
1.        The objective of the Third Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND)
was to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower, expand
the supply of locally adapted agricultural extension materials and strengthen
management and planning services for agricultural training. Achievement of these
specific objectives would help GOI increase overall agricultural production.
Implementation Experience
2.        In general the Project was implemented in accordance with the proposals
included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) although delays in completing some
construction and three fishing training vessels resulted in the extension of the Project
for two years beyond the original project closing date. Virtually all project objectives
were achieved and, as a result of devaluation of the Indonesian Rupiah, some targets
were even exceeded. Management of project implementation greatly benefitted from
the experience gained by the beneficiary agency, AAETE, in implementing two earlier
projects (Cr. 288-IND and Ln. 1692-IND) which supported the development and
strengthening of agriculture sector pre-service and in-service training.
3.         The pre-service training component was fully implemented with assistance
given to expanding the capacity of 30 existing provincial SPPs and the construction of
nine new state SPPs on the Outer Islands, one more SPP than planned in the SAR.
4.         The in-service component was also fully implemented with the construction
of four new In-service Training Centers (ISTCs), the upgrading of one existing fishery
ISTC and the expansion of one existing ISTC.
5.         The Agricultural Information Center component was fully implemented.
Fifteen new AICs were built and staffed and all were producing a variety of extension
materials by the project completion date.
6.         The training planning and manpower development component was
implemented but the agricultural manpower development center (AMDC), established
under the project, was only 60 percent staffed by the end of the project implementation



- iv -
period and did not reach its planned potential. The AMDC component represented
approximately 1 percent of SAR project cost estimates.  Yet, it made a useful
contribution to AAET planning capacity through a series of studies undertaken during
project implementation.
7.         Overseas and local training to strengthen staff capacity exceeded SAR
expectations and the technical assistance program was fully implemented.
8.         The final project cost of US$90.2 million was US$15.2 million (or
14 percent) less than the US$105.4 million SAR estimate, due to the devaluation of the
Rupiah currency by about 52 percent during the implementation period. The declining
value of the Rupiah against the US dollar enabled several initiatives to be undertaken,
including expansion of the SPP Sorong, supporting the development of a provincial SPP
in Aceh, the fishery ISTC Tegal and the ISTC Batu, and upgrading equipment for
APPs, and repair of existing fishing training vessels.  Loan funds contributed
US$62.9 million or 70 percent of total project cost and reflected a loan disbursement
rate of 99 percent.
Project Results
9.         The project succeeded in reaching SAR targets for expanded number of
training places in SPPs and ISTCs and achieved 130 percent of SAR goals for annual
output of trainees from these institutions. Availability of training space in the Outer
Islands was increased as planned. Staffing targets for all project supported institutions
except the AMDC were met or exceeded and staff training targets were exceeded in
both the local and overseas categories.
10.        Two measures of SPP quality showed significant gains over the pre-project
situation.  The percentage of students graduating increased in both the state and
provincial SPPs and the percentage of students repeating the third year dropped
significantly.
11.        Project-created  capacity which provided additional pre-service and
in-service training of higher quality, supported Government agriculture sector objectives
of intensification of food crop production, employment creation, increasing income of
the rural poor and encouraging production of export crops.
Sustainability
12.        Sustaining the quality improvements obtained under the project will depend
on the ability of the AAET to maintain its SPPs, ISTCs and AICs, keep equipment and
teaching materials up-to-date and provide teachers with opportunities for skill
enhancement. AAET will be responsible for making the case to Government for
adequate budgetary support for the continuing operation, maintenance and quality
assurance required to provide the level of training needed by sector staff.



- v -
Lessons Learned
13.        The main lessons learned are:
(a)   A frank and open exchange of ideas and information between Borrower
and the Bank is necessary to obtain maximum impact from a project such
as the Third Agricultural Training Project, especially when rapid sector
development and change is taking place;
(b)   If the Borrower has incorporated procurement items in its forward
institutional business plan, it can be difficult to modify, remove or replace
such items when circumstances indicate the need for change;
(c)  It is difficult to asses qualitative training improvement without conducting
impact assessments on trainee performance in the work place;
(d)   Without the inclusion of qualitative indicators in the project documents,
project management is more likely to concentrate on procurement of goods
and services which have clear indicators assigned. Future projects dealing
with agriculture sector training should include measures of qualitative
improvement;
(e)   Field visits during implementation supervision are essential;
(f)   Accurate financial records clearly presented are of the utmost importance
for effective project management and Bank project supervision; and
(g)   Closer attention should be given to site and soil survey, site selection and
site development to avoid recurrence of the problems encountered at the
Fishery Outstation.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TIIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN 2341-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name      :      Third Agricultural Training Project
Loan Number       :     2341-IND
RVP Unit          :      East Asia and Pacific Region
Country                  Republic of Indonesia
Subsector         :      Agricultural Education/Training
2.    Background
2.1         In the late 1970s the agricultural sector in Indonesia accounted for about
36 percent of GDP, 25 percent of total exports, 80 percent of non-oil exports, and
employed about 60 percent of the total work force. The sector had a dualistic structure,
consisting of some 14.4 million smallholder farms which cultivated about 14.2 million
ha, and about 1,800 large estates which occupied about 2.2 million ha. Production in
all subsistence and cash crops, except oil palm and tea, was dominated by smallholders.
About two-thirds of the farm families lived on the "inner islands" of Java, Madura, and
Bali, where 65 percent of Indonesia's population was concentrated. However, together
these islands accounted for less than 7 percent of the country's total land area.
Consequently, about 70 percent of farmers cultivated less than one ha of land.
2.2         The primary long-standing objectives for development of the sector were
to: (a) intensify and accelerate production of food crops, primarily rice; (b) create
productive employment; (c) raise the incomes of the rural poor; and (d) improve net
foreign exchange earnings by increasing export crops and reducing rice imports. As
a necessary first step, investments in agriculture during the First Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969/70-1973/74) were directed largely towards
rehabilitation of neglected irrigation works and other infrastructure, and of rundown
public sector tree crop estates. The inner islands received most attention under the First
Plan. The Second Plan (Repelita II, 1974/75-1978/79), however, emphasized wider
distribution of development effort over different regions. With this in mind, Repelita
II objectives centered on (i) a pricing policy for farm products designed to give
incentives to the rural producer; (ii) heavy investment in new roads, irrigation,
marketing facilities, and other infrastructure; (iii) strengthening production techniques
and inputs through rural credit schemes and development of an effective extension
service. These policies continued to receive heavy emphasis during Repelita III



- 2 -
(1979/80-1983/84), commencing in April 1979, with the addition of: (a) formulation
of a national food strategy which would further promote rice while increasing emphasis
on the production and consumption of non-rice food crops; and (b) revival and
promotion of traditional agricultural exports. Also in Repelita III, the Government
planned to vastly expand its continuing program of transmigration, which had long been
an integral part of the strategy to increase agricultural production. This program sought
to move mainly landless and near-landless farm families from the densely populated
island of Java to the underutilized, though less fertile, areas in the other islands and
help establish them on their own holdings.
2.3          The Government, recognizing the importance of skilled middle level
technical personnel, adopted a multiphased strategy of building sector capacity to
provide pre-service and in-service training for extension workers. The Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training (AAET), which would coordinate and administer
middle-level agricultural education and training, was established in 1972 with support
from the Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND). AAET was, in 1974, renamed the
Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) by a Presidential
Decree. All schools and in-service training centers under the, then, five Directorates
General (Food Crops, Livestock, Fisheries, Estate Crops and Forestry) would be
transferred to AAETE which would centralize and rationalize their management. Under
the Second Education Project (Cr. 288-IND) 14 existing senior secondary agricultural
schools were upgraded (one marine fisheries secondary school was upgraded with FAO
assistance) and curriculum development undertaken. Under a second Bank project-the
Second Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 1692-IND, 1979)-quality and numbers of
agricultural technicians were augmented through the expansion or rehabilitation of 42
existing pre-service (SPP) and in-service (ISTC) institutions; establishment of five new
SPPs, seven ISTCs and eleven AICs and the provision of technical assistance for the
SPPs, ISTCs and AAETE to strengthen planning and management and to undertake
studies.  The third phase of capacity building was continued under the Third
Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND, 1983), which supported government's
long-term strategy of improving and expanding pre-service and in-service agriculture
sector training.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1         In the context of GOI's overall agriculture sector policy which called for
increase in agriculture production and welfare of farmers, the objective of the Third
Agricultural Training Project (Ln. 2341-IND) was to improve the quality and supply
of middle level agricultural manpower, expand the supply of locally adapted agricultural
extension materials and strengthen management and planning services for agricultural
training.



-3-
Components
3.2         The project provided funds for civil works, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance and fellowships for the following components:
(a)   improve and expand pre-service agricultural training through assistance
to: (i) about 30 existing provincial SPPs; (ii) 8 new state SPPs; and
(iii) a new outstation for the existing Fishery Training Institute;
(b)   upgrade and expand in-service training programs for agricultural staff
through: (i) the establishment of four new agricultural in-service training
centers (ISTCs); and (ii) support to one existing fishery ISTC;
(c)   expand the supply of locally  adapted  information materials for
agricultural extension programs and training institutions through the
establishment of 15 new provincial agricultural information centers
(AICs); and
(d)   strengthen management and  planning services for agricultural
training through:  (i) establishment of a Center for Agricultural
Manpower Development at the existing National Agricultural Training
Institute; (ii) pre-investment studies (to be managed by the Center); and
(iii) provision of training for AAETE planning staff.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1          The project was modelled on the successful design of the Second
Education Project (Cr. 288-IND) and the Second Agricultural Training Project
(Ln. 1692-IND) which had proven effective in meeting the objectives of improving the
organization and quality of pre-service and in-service training for agriculture middle-
level technicians. The four project components addressed the quality and capacity of
SPPs and ISTCs, expansion of the supply of extension materials through the
establishment of new AICs and the strengthening of management and planning services
for agricultural training. AAETE had proven itself capable of managing the completed
Second Education Project and the ongoing Second Agricultural Training Project.
Provincial Committees with representation from the Departments of Agriculture, Public
Works and Home Affairs were in place under the Second Agricultural Training Project
to help with implementation and would continue to serve under the Third Agricultural
Training Project.
4.2          Project design/concept which supported the still expanding public sector
extension service reflected development objectives and was in line with Government
policy. GOI funding for staff expansion and training was available given the high price
of oil in the post OPEC period and the projected need for more technical staff was
considerable.



- 4 -
4.3          Project designers could not have anticipated the tightening of government
budgets following the precipitous drop in oil prices in 1986 and the freeze on hiring for
public service jobs which followed. Both of these events were to have a negative effect
on agricultural education and training in that funding for in-service training for the
rapidly built-up extension cadre was drastically reduced, operation and maintenance
support dropped sharply and graduates from the expanded SPP network of institutions
had fewer employment possibilities.
4.4         The project's support for the creation of the Agricultural Manpower
Development Center (AMDC) and the strengthening of AAETE's planning capability
appeared, in hindsight, to have provided too narrow a focus of responsibility for human
resource management within the sector. Due to a lack of MOA initiative, little capacity
to undertake manpower planning, rationalize appointments and transfers, update job
descriptions, undertake training needs assessments and, in general, manage human
resources was developed outside AAETE. The Agency, by default, became the
identifier of training needs, the trainer and the evaluator of its own training programs.
It would have been more effective if the project had included a component for at least
the Directorates General to help them assess their training needs and evaluate the impact
of training so that they could have approached AAETE as "educated consumers of
training" and provided valuable impact evaluation observations to AAETE to strengthen
future training activities.
4.5         More appraisal attention to the desirability of purchasing a large fishery
training vessel would have possibly avoided heated debate, delays and finally a less than
satisfactory compromise.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         Overall, project implementation was successful albeit with a completion
period of two years longer than planned.  The principal factors responsible for
implementation delay were: (a) protracted decision-making on the number and size of
training vessels and subsequently delay in the construction and delivery of the vessels;
(b) slow completion of the fisheries outstation for the Fisheries Academy, Pasar Minggu
(AUP) at Serang; and (c) severe budgetary cutbacks in the mid-1980s due to the sharp
fall in oil prices.
5.2          The project design included a fishing training vessel of sufficient size to
accommnodate 60 trainees but without details. In view of the severe budget constraints
facing the Government in the mid-1980s, a series of discussions between the
Government and the Bank took place over the course of almost two years concerning
the size and number of, and the justification for, vessels to be purchased, and the
availability of funds for maintenance and operation of fishing training vessels. A
contract for the construction of three 100-ton vessels was finally signed in November
1989, with the delivery date set for February 1991, two years behind schedule. The
construction of the vessels was further delayed by late arrival of auxiliary engines and
power units, and the three vessels were finally delivered in February 1992, one year
behind the agreed delivery date. Due to the fact that the contractor was not able to



- 5 -
finish rectifying deficiencies, detected after the vessels had been delivered to their ports,
in time to obtain a certificate of final acceptance of the vessels before the extended
Closing Date of June 30, 1992, the final payment of five percent of the contract value
had to be funded from sources other than the loan proceeds. In hindsight, while it
could be argued that the delay in deciding the size and number of vessels could have
been lessened if details were worked out and agreed at appraisal, it is not likely that any
one could have anticipated the mid-1980s severe budget cutbacks. In retrospect, it
provided an opportune time for both the Government and the Bank to further review
and discuss the fishery training situation, and deepen the understanding of this
subsector.
5.3          The location of the fisheries outstation for AUP at Serang was ideal but
the site was ill chosen being low-lying, close to the sea, and subject to a high water
table which reflected the movement of the tides. Therefore, the outstation site had
serious drainage and waste disposal problems.  Also, when the first phase of
construction of the fisheries outstation was almost complete, three buildings began to
sink due to lack of piling. It took almost two years with substantial effort and work,
to save and stabilize the buildings, solve the drainage and waste disposal problems, and
to bring the campus into commission. In retrospect, it is evident that the construction
deficiencies could have been avoided by siting buildings on higher ground and carrying
out proper soil analysis during site selection, undertaking appropriate site development,
and providing closer supervision during site development and construction.
5.4         In contrast to previous decades, the budgetary environment during which
the project was implemented was increasingly constraining. In particular, the sharp fall
in oil prices in the mid-1980s necessitated that Government institute severe budget
cutbacks, which affected implementation of all Bank-supported projects. In responding
to the budgetary constraints, the Loan Agreement was amended, in July 1986, to:
(a) include a new category "project management, monitoring and supervision " financed
100 percent by the Loan; (b) increase disbursement against civil works from 70 percent
to 90 percent; and (c) include furniture in the category of material, equipment and
vessels and to increase disbursement against local expenditures from 60 percent to
75 percent.
5.5          Project costs changed considerably during implementation due largely to
the devaluation of the Rupiah currency from Rp 970/US$ at appraisal in 1982 to
Rp 2,020/US$ in the last year of disbursement in 1992. The total project cost, as
currently estimated, is US$90.2 million compared with an appraisal estimate of
US$105.4 million. The total amount disbursed from the Bank loan was US$62.9
million which represented 70 percent of the total cost, and the remaining undisbursed
balance of US$388,510.18 was cancelled effective June 29, 1992. The GOI financing
of US$27.3 million was significantly less than the US$42.1 million estimated at
appraisal (Part III, Tables 5, 6 and 7). The declining value of the Rupiah against the
US dollar and the extension of the project implementation period enabled several
initiatives to be undertaken-such as expansion of the SPP Sorong with facilities for
aquaculture courses, supporting the development of a provincial SPP at Kotacane,
Aceh, the fishery ISTC Tegal and the ISTC Batu, and upgrading equipment for



- 6 -
Agricultural Extension Academies (APPs) to meet the standard set by the Ministry of
Education and Culture for accreditation of the D3 program, and repair of eight existing
fishing training vessels.
5.6          Project Management. Project management was based on the model
developed under the Second Education and Second Agricultural Training projects and
proved quite effective in achieving SAR targets. Another factor which lent stability to
project management was the low turnover in project managers, there being two during
the eight years of implementation.  Project delays due to fishing training vessel
discussions, construction site problems and budgetary constraints were outside the
control of the PIU. The one area of weakness evident during project supervision was
the lack of clarity concerning current project financial status. In producing an up-to-
date financial statement, management frequently found it difficult to reflect and
rationalize figures for goods and services obtained and paid for, goods and services for
which disbursement applications were pending and goods and services which had been
paid for out of the Special Account. This was however largely due to the prevailing
internal mechanism which allowed only the Directorate General of Budget, the Ministry
of Finance, to prepare withdrawal applications for disbursements and for replenishment
of funds in the Special Account, and the project management had no direct control over
the preparation of withdrawal applications for disbursements or replenishment for the
Special Account. As a result, supervision missions spent excessive time and effort in
understanding apparent differences in management's accounts versus the Bank's
disbursement records. The lack of accounting clarity made it difficult to discuss, in a
meaningful way, proposals for the use of remaining project funds as the project entered
its final year of implementation.
5.7          All loan covenants were complied with except for one provincial SPP in
Java which was provided with less than the agreed land area of 7.5 ha.
6.    Project Results
6.1         Implementation Targets. The project met all of its SAR targets in terms
of construction of new SPPs, ISTCs and AICs, expansion and improvement of existing
provincial SPPs and training centers (Part III, Tables 4A, 4B, and 4C). In addition,
by agreement with the Bank, one new state SPP was constructed in Irian Jaya and
assistance given to a provincial SPP at Kotacane, Aceh. All equipment including
fishing training vessels, was procured and additional equipment and books for the
Diploma 3 (D3) programs in the APPs were purchased. Staff training program targets
in both local and overseas categories were exceeded SAR projections. The technical
assistance component was fully implemented. AAET's planning staff increased to
40 persons, 5 more than the SAR target. The Agricultural Manpower Development
Center was established but not institutionalized and only 60 percent staffed (18 of 30
persons planned in the SAR) by June 1992. AMDC undertook 40 studies/surveys
which included SPP graduates tracer studies, evaluation of training programs, training
needs assessments, extension worker job analyses and farmers group development.
Many of the studies/surveys proved useful in planning new curricula and designing
extension campaigns. The tracer studies also confirmed the decreasing availability of



- 7 -
employment opportunties in the public sector and prompted a realignment of the SPP
curriculum towards preparing students for self-employment or work in the private
sector.
6.2          Training places available at SPPs and ISTCs met SAR estimates, while
the numbers of staff who had completed long and short-term training in country and
abroad exceeded SAR expectations. By project closing date the SPPs reflected two
significant quality changes over the pre-project situation. State SPPs registered an
increase in the percentage of students graduating from 98 percent to 99.4 percent, while
the project-supported provincial SPP figures improved from 79 percent to 98.4 percent.
There was a significant improvement in the percentage of SPP students repeating the
third year of the program. Repeaters in the state SPPs dropped from 2 percent to
0.6 percent while repeaters in project-supported provincial SPPs dropped from
21 percent to 1.6 percent (Part III, Attachment 2).
6.3          Fifteen AICs were established in provinces where no previous AICs had
been built. The 15 centers were staffed and were producing a variety of extension
support materials by the project closing date.
6.4          Project impact as distinct from project result is difficult to measure but
it is reasonable to assume qualitative improvement in the areas of administration,
planning, education and training based on the numbers of staff who obtained advanced
degrees and participated in short term training and study visits and the input of technical
assistance. New, expanded and rehabilitated teaching, laboratory and dormitory space,
teaching equipment, books and new and renovated fishing vessels can also be assumed
to have had a positive impact on agricultural education and training. AAETE also
increased its capacity to provide training to estate crops personnel through training of
key commodity teaching staff under the Tree Crops Human Resource Development
Project (Ln. 2992-IND), implementation of which began in 1989. This increased
capability, together with the improved facilities, has had a positive impact on the estate
crops sub-sector.
6.5          Although qualitative impact cannot be measured satisfactorily, the rice
self-sufficiency objective of GOI was achieved and the project has contributed to the
achievement of this goal.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1          The issue of whether or not the objectives achieved by the project are
sustainable needs to be viewed from two perspectives; first, continuing demand for the
graduates or trainees from project-supported institutions; and second, the policy and
budgetary support for project-supported institutions and their activities.
7.2          SPPs. Employment opportunities for SPP graduates have declined due
to limits placed on public sector hiring although state SPP graduates are in demand.
In order to bring about improved graduate employment, a new policy is being
developed which would assign responsibility for horticulture, animal husbandry and



- 8 -
fishery to the SPPs and introduce a new curriculum. Responsibility for food crop and
estate crop training would shift to vocational schools under the MOEC.
7.3         ISTCs. The expanded ISTC capacity can continue to meet a substantial
part of the various in-service training demands of the more than 30,000 extension
workers throughout Indonesia. The most serious threat to sustainability is a decrease
in the level of funding made available from government sources. To date, the ISTC
network has been largely cushioned from budgetary cuts by project-related training
programs funded by multilateral and bilateral projects which have generated training
activities implemented by the ISTCs. Experience during the 1980s oil price drop
indicates that availability of domestic funds for training is very vulnerable in times of
fiscal pressure.
7.4         Fisheries Outstation. Sustainability of the fisheries outstation at Serang
should not be a problem from the point of view of demand for in-service training.
However, the campus will require considerable and uninterrupted operation and
maintenance funding due to its closeness to the ocean and the nature of the site.
Funding, therefore, is key to sustainability for this project supported institution.
7.5         The Agricultural Manpower Development Center (AMDC).  The
AMDC was founded and funded under the Third Agricultural Training Project but
without continuing government financial support cannot be sustained.  Many of
AMDC's activities are important such as conducting tracer studies on graduates of the
SPPs; follow-up surveys of the performance of staff trained at the ISTCs; and
development of curricula and learning materials but some tasks such as training needs
identification and agricultural manpower development and utilization should be the
responsibility of other parts of the Ministry. The fact that the AMDC was not
institutionalized should not seriously affect the planning capability of AAET as the staff
who undertook a useful number of studies during project implementation are still
employed in various parts of the Agency. The collective capacity of these staff can still
be mobilized to conduct studies as required.
7.6         AICs.  The agricultural information centers which are designed to
develop and produce a variety of materials and methodology in support of local
extension activities can be sustainable provided funds are available when required.
During implementation of the Third Agricultural Training Project, AIC activities were,
from time to time, reduced to a minimum due to shortages of operating funds. There
is continuing need for the products of the AICs as long as the present model of
extension services operates, however, sustainability will depend on the quality of the
product and in devising ways of combining cost recovery and ensuring budgetary
support.
7.7         Fishing Training Vessels. Past experience in Indonesia (and elsewhere
in Asia) indicates that operation and maintenance support for fishing training vessels is
generally weak. Vessels are not maintained and those few that are do not undertake
many training voyages due to lack of operational funds. The three vessels purchased
under the Third Agricultural Training Project together with the eight vessels



- 9 -
rehabilitated will place even greater demands on O&M funding and, despite a ruling
which enables money from the sale of fish to be used to defray O&M costs,
sustainability of their effective use is difficult to predict.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1         There was continuity in composition of Bank project supervision with two
project officers/task managers and one resident mission backup task manager during the
total implementation period. Considerable supervision attention was given to solving
civil works and implementation issues leaving less time for discussions of education and
training quality and implications for training resulting from sector development.
Regular field visits during supervision missions proved useful in addressing problems
associated with civil works, especially at the site of the fisheries outstation and with the
rehabilitation of existing fishing training vessels. The involvement of resident mission
staff in general supervision and with specific supervision of the special account and
audit reports was extremely valuable not only to the Bank but also to Project
Management. Supervision Aide Memoires contained important issues requiring project
management follow-up.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1          The satisfactory performance of project management and project
institutions reflected experience gained during the implementation of two earlier projects
(Cr. 288-IND and Ln. 1692-IND) which supported agricultural training. The Borrower
had some difficulty in providing its share of counterpart funds especially during the oil
price decline of the mid 1980s. By focussing on project physical implementation the
Borrower may have missed an opportunity to use the project to address new directions
in agriculture sector education and training.
10.   Lessons Learned
10.1        A frank and open exchange of information and ideas is essential if the
maximum impact is to be obtained from a project such as the Third Agricultural
Training Project.  The Bank was not always privy to changes being planned or
implemented in the areas of agricultural education or training which impacted on the
project until after the event. Future projects should recommend more open dialogue
between the Borrower, other donors and the Bank in order to maximize project impact
on training.
10.2        Once items are included in the SAR it is difficult to modify, remove or
replace them. The project had such an item, a fishing training vessel to accommodate
60 trainees. At some point during implementation this was translated into a 500-ton
vessel. The Bank became concerned about the size of the vessel especially given the
difficulties encountered in obtaining funding for the operation and maintenance of the
existing training vessels. The size of the vessel in contrast with the more modest
vessels employed by fishermen in Indonesia evoked concerns about the relevance of the
larger vessel in providing useful training for students. Despite protracted discussions



- 10 -
on the advisability of replacing the one large vessel with a number of smaller wooden
boats of the type used by local fishermen, project management and the Bank were
unable to convince fisheries staff of the logic for making a change in specifications.
Finally, as a compromise, three 100-ton vessels were built and the 500-ton vessel
dropped.
10.3         It is difficult to asses qualitative training improvement without conducting
impact assessments on trainee performance in the work place.
10.4         When Bank projects fund large civil works, procurement and fellowship
components, the focus of supervision is diverted from quality improvement to
quantitative measures of procurement and disbursement. This is due, largely, to the
omission of indicators of quality improvement in the project documents. In contrast,
quantitative indicators are included. Future projects dealing with agriculture sector
training should include measures of qualitative improvement.
10.5         Field visits are essential during supervision to identify implementation
problems and help with finding solutions. A case in point is the fisheries outstation at
Serang where serious site problems required numerous supervision visits before finally
arriving at a solution.
10.6         Clear and accurate project generated financial records are essential for
effective project management and Bank supervision.
10.7         Closer attention should be given to site and soil survey, site selection and
site development to avoid recurrence of the problems encountered at the Fishery
Outstation.
11.   Project Relationship
11.1         Cooperative interaction between the Bank and concerned Government
agencies during implementation of the two previous agricultural education and training
projects (Cr. 288-IND and Ln. 1692-IND) contributed to the design, preparation and
implementation of the project. Regular supervision from Bank headquarters and easy
access to Resident Mission staff enabled Project management to deal with Bank
procedures with relative ease. Project management's satisfactory relationship with other
Ministries and client groups within the Ministry of Agriculture was achieved as a result
of years of contact and the establishment of informal and formal networks.
12.   The Role of Consultants, Suppliers and Contractors
12.1         Throughout project implementation appropriately qualified consultants
were engaged to provide pedagogic support, architectural and engineering expertise and
site supervision. Consultant performance was satisfactory. Contractor performance and
standard of construction was generally adequate with the exception of problems
encountered at the fishery outstation at Serang where site conditions proved extremely



- 11 -
difficult. Equipment supplied was delivered according to specifications but furniture
quality proved variable.
13.   Documentation and Data
13.1        The SAR and the Loan Agreement constituted the main implementation
reference source for project management and Bank supervision. These documents were
supplemented by Supervision Mission Aide Memoires.
13.2        In general, Project management kept a comprehensive data base and
supplied project progress reports on time. Financial data proved the most difficult to
interpret due in part to delays in submission of claims from provincial project sites and
the difficulty in interpretation of data between categories such as contracts signed,
claims submitted and claims paid.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEWFROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.1  Introduction
Third Agricultural Training Project is one of the projects which has financial
assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
The project constituted the third phase of the Government's long-term strategy to
improve quality and supply of middle-level agricultural technicians. The main benefit of
the project is promoting agricultural development by increasing well-trained agricultural
technicians.
The objectives of the project are: (a) improve and expand agricultural preservice
training; (b) upgrade and expand inservice training programs; (c) expand the
provision of locally adapted information materials for agricultural extension programs
and training institutions; and (d) strengthen management and planning services for
agricultural training.
Total project costs estimated of US$105.50 million. The Bank provided
US$63.30 millionor 60% and the Government of Indonesia allocated a Rupiah budget
of US$42.20 millionequivalent or 40% of the total project costs. The Loan Agreement
was signed on August 22, 1983; effective date was on October 25, 1983; and original
closing date on June 30, 1990.
2.2  Lessons Learned
Sustainability of institutional functions (which were assisted by the project) is
fullyand tied to the Government's commitment of long-term funding.
On the initialstage of project implementation furthermore during the preparation
stage, it is fundamental the Government of Indonesia clearly understand the key
issues and follow-up to facilitate the project management unit on achievement of
project targets and objectives.
The Bank could cancel one or more project target(s); on the other hand, the
Bank also could approve additional project targets proposed by the project amended
to the original plan. The Bank cancelled construction of one 500 GT training vessel,
on the other hand, Bank approved additional and expanded activities or works such
as expand number and programs both overseas and in-country fellowship programs;
additional construction and upgrade another 6 institutions; assist the Agricultural
The Borrower also prepared  a full Project Completion Report, which is available
in project files.



- 13 -
Training Institutes (APPs) with equipment; and budget reallocation from one to another
category, etc.
Joint field inspections by IBRD mission and the Project Management to several
project sites, very useful to solve crucial problem(s) faced in the field.
The existence of IBRD RSI is very important and helpful for both IBRD
headquarters  and the project, especially communications  of crucial matters during
project implementation which need immediate confirmation or even approval for further
action. Due to non existence of RSI office, several projects assisted by other
international funding agencies, met difficulties during implementation when they faced
by the problems which need immediate action, while approval for this matter have to
wait confirmation from headquarters offices.
There are clearly linkages and continuation of the first, second and the third
projects; strengthened capability of DG AAETand its executing agencies in order to
support and promote the agricultural development.  The first project emphasized
hardware or physical facilities; second and third projects were expanded of the first
project. The emphasis of both projects objectives are improvement of manpower
quality as well as physical facilities.
Due to adjustment of the Government's agricultural development policy and
development plan from production oriented into agribusiness and agro-industry, the
next proposed  project design willhave to ensure and consider the changes.  The
project objectives may emphasize more on improvement quality and capabilities of
manpower and selected improvement of physical facilities.



- 14 -
PART IlIl - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  Related Bank Loans andor Credit
Table 1:  IDA Credit and IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project
Loan/Credit                                                       Year of
Title                e_    _           _ _       _            Approval       _ Status
Cr. 288-IND              To strengthen preservice and inservice     1972         Completed in
Second Education         training programs for middle level agricultural         March 1978
Project                  workers, and to create a strong central agency
to administer and supervise all MOA
agricultural education and training programs.
Ln. 1692-IND             To upgrade the quality and increase the output   1979  Completed in
Second Agricultural      of agricultural technicians and to improve             June 1985
Training Project         access to training institutions in remote areas.
Ln. 2748-IND             To fund Diploma 3 (3) training for agricultural    1986  On -going
Third National Agricul-  extension workers.
tural Extension Project
Ln. 2773-IND             Increase fish production creating employment    1986   Completed in
Fisheries Support Services  and export commodities; assist in restructuring      1992
Project                  of state-owned fisheries enterprises; alleviate
poverty by locating improved services in areas
with high concentration of poor fishermen.
Ln. 2880-IND             Strengthen institutional capacity to sustain the    1987  Completed in
Irrigation Subsector Project productivity of irrigation systems, extend         1992
irrigation user fees nationwide, turn over small
systems to water user associations and rationa-
lize existing and programmed investments in
irrigation.
Ln. 2992-IND             To establish capacity for human resources  1988        On-going
Tree Crops Human         management in DGE, upgrade staff technical
Resource Development    and managerial skills in DGE, AAET and LPP,
Project                  and train farmer leaders.
Ln. 3031 -IND            Increase efficiency and relevance of the agricul-  1989  On-going
Agricultural Research &  tural research system to support sustained
Management Project       agricultural development by providing operational
support to priority elements of the ongoing
research program and introducing institutional
and management reforms to improve research.
Comments:
In support of the National Agricultural Extension Program objectives, the Third National Agricultural Extension
Project (Ln. 2748-IND) provided funding to enable agricultural extension workers to complete the Diploma 3
(D3) program.



- 15 -
B.  Project Timetable
Table 2:   Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Date                   Date                    Date
Item               Planned                  Revised                Actual
- Identification                                   -                     11/81
- Preparation               -                      -                     03/82
- Appraisal Mission       12/82                    -                     07/82
- Loan Negotiations       05/83                    -                     05/83
- Board Approval          07/83                    -                   07/26/83
- Loan Signature          08/83                    -                   08/22/83
- Loan Effectiveness      11/83                    -                   10/26/83
- Project Completion     06/30/89               06/30/91               06/30/92
- Loan Closing           06/30/90               06/30/91               06/30/92
- Last Disbursement         -                      -                   06/29/92
C.  Loan Disbursements
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank FY     1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992
Appraisal          2.2    7.6   19.0   35.0   47.5   57.0   63.3
estimate
Actual             0.2    1.1    16.5   29.8   46.7   50.7   53.2   60.0   62.9
Actual as % of      9      14      87      85      98      89      84      95      99
estimate
Actual as % of      0       2      26      47      74      80      84      95      99
total loan
Date of final
disbursement   06/29/92
Comments:   Slow disbursement at the beginning of project implementation was partly attributable
to the fact that some of the expenditures (approximately US$1.0 million equivalent) for design work
and site survey were disbursed from Ln. 1692-IND (Second Agricultural Training Project). The total
amount disbursed was US$62,911,489.82 and the Loan Account was closed on June 29, 1992, with
a cancellation of the undisbursed balance of US$388,510.18.



- 16 -
D. Proiect Implementation and Results
Table 4A:  Planned Training Places and Annual Output vs. Actual at Completion
Appraisal Plan              Actual at Copletion (1992L
No of    -rainples  Ann ual output   No.of  Train-
insti-   Exist-        Exist-          insti-    ing      Annual
Component        tutions__ ing    New_  in    New   tutions  places           output
Preservice Training
Provincial SPPs        30 /a 7,200      -   1,900   2,280     30      6,849      2,232
State SPPs              8 /b    -   1,920       -    620       9      2,129       627
Fishery Academy         1     400    200       90    180       1       775        225
(Outstation)
Inservice Trainig
Agriculture ISTCs       4       -    240        -    1690 /c    4      240       2,648 /d
Fishery ISTC            1       60      -       -    420 /c    1        60       1,012
Total                44    7660   21360   1990   519        45       053 6,744
% Completion                                                 102%      100%       130%
/a  Of which 12 SPPs will be in the Outer Islands.
/b All 8 SPPs will be in the Outer Islands: two in forestry, four in marine fishing, one in brackish-water
fishing and one in broad-based agriculture.
/c  Based on 6-week courses over 42 weeks annually.
/d  Includes staff and non-staff: staff - 1,050, and non-staff (farmers and fishermen) - 1,598. Courses provided
were one month for staff and one week for non-staff.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4367-IND and PIU, AAET, MOA
Comments:
As planned at appraisal, two of the nine state SPPs established under the project were in forestry and were
handed over to the Ministry of Forestry upon completion. In addition to the eight state SPPs planned to be
established at appraisal, one state SPP was also established in Sorong, Irian Jaya, by agreement with the Bank.
Also, the project supported additional five institutions (one provincial SPP, one state SPP, one fishery ISTC, one
Production Training Center and one AIC) through renovation and repair of some of the facilities.



- 17 -
D. Project Implementation and Results (continued)
Table 4B: Planned Staffing and Staff Training vs. Actual at Completion
Appraisal Plan                  Actual at Completion (June 1992)
Staffing /a    Staff Training (No.)                Staff Training (No.)
No.of        Additio-         Overseas    No.of Current              Overseas
insti-  Exist- nal no.  Local Short- Long-  insti-  staff-      Short- Long-
Component  tutions  ing  required  /b   term  term   tutions  ing    Local term  temm   Total
Provincial SPPs    30 /c 210    30    240     -      -    30      221   207 /g    -       -    0
StateSPPs         8Id    -   80       80      8    16       9 /e   148    60 /h   8      8    16
Fishery Institute  1    33     7       -      2      4      1       50 /f  15 /i   1     9    10
Agrc. ISTCs       4       -   24      24      4      8      4       52    n.a.    8    10 A   18
Fishery ISTC      1      7     -       -      1      2      1       25       -    1      4      5
AICs             15       -   90      90    15    15    15         123    n.a.   10    11    21
Center for Agric.    1    -   30       -      5      9      1       18       -    4      4      8
Manpower Dev.
AAETPlan. Div.    1    20    15        -      5    10       1       40       -   13 [  30 /Im  43
Others                                                                            5 /k   5 /n  10
Total         61   270   276    434    40    64    62           677   282    50    81   131
/a Full-time teaching or other professional staff only.
/b Inservice courses to be provided at the Teacher Training Center or National ATC, NATI.
/c Of which 12 SPPs will be in the Outer Islands.
/d All 8 SPPs will be in the Outer Islands: two in forestry, four in marine fishing, one in brackish-water fishing
and one in broad-based agriculture.
/e Two forestry SPPs were handed over to the Ministry of Forestry upon completion.
/f Teaching staff are mainly from the Fishery Academy (AUP), Jakarta.
/g Of which 147 staff completed D3 program and 60 trainers and teachers were provided with in-service training.
/b MA degrees.
/i Short training for 15 training vessel crew members.
/j Includes three from Agri. Training Institutes.
/k Includes one from DG of Estates Crops, Jakarta, three retired and one whose home institution not available.
/l Includes two from the forestry ISTCs.
/m Includes nine from Agric. Training Institutes.
/n Includes one each from MOA representatives from Irian Jaya and West Java, Foreign Cooperation Bureau,
Jakarta, Agency for Mass Guidance, Jakarta, and one retired.
n.a. - Data not available.
Note: See comments on Table 4A.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4367-IND and PIU, MET, MOA.



- 18 -
D. Project Implementation and Results (continued)
Table 4C: Technical Assistance: Planning vs Actual at Completion
eppwisal Plan     _    0  00XActual at Completion
Total                           Total
No. of   man-                  No. of    man-
Description       __people  months         Timing     _peop e   months   _iming
Consultant Services:
Center for Agric. Manpower
Dev - Studies                        /a          /a          na       na
Planning Division of AAET
-2 specialists (for 3 months    2       24    1984-87           8       24      1986-87
each year over four years)
Teachers/Subject Matter Training
for AAETE Institutions
-2 specialists, each 3 months   2       24     1984-87          3        10
over a 4-year period
Total Consultants             4       48                     11        34
% Completion                                             275%       71%
Fellowships:
Center for Agrc. Manpower Dev.
-Degree overseas (18 mos)      5       90   07/84-12/88  )     4        72   09/84-06/88
-Degree overseas (48 mos)      4      192   09/84-08/88  )
-Short-term trg (3 mos)        5       15        -             4        12    1986-87
Subtotal                  14     297                      8        84
Planning Division of AAETE
-Degree overseas (18 mos)     10      180   07/84-12/88       26 /b    472   09/84-06/88
-St-term overseas trg (3mos)   5       15                     15 /c     43     1986-87
Subtotal                  15     195                     41       515
Teachers/Subject Matter Training
for AAETE Institutions
-Degree overseas (18 mos)     45      810   07/84-12/88       51       869   09/84-06/88
-St-term overseas trg (3mos)  30       90        -            31        88     1986-87
-Local training              150    5,400   01/84-12/88      207 /d  6,750   10/84-06/89
Subtotal                 225    6,300                   289      7,707
Total - Overseas Degree         64    1272                      81      1413
Overseas Short-Term       40      120                     50       143
Local (D3 & MA)          150    5,400                    207     6,750
Total Fellowships           254    6792                     338      8.306
% Completion                                             133%      122%
/a  No man-month figure is specified in the SAR.
/b  Includes one each from MOA representatives from Irian Jaya and West Java, Foreign Cooperation Bureau,
Jakareta, Agency for Mass Guidance, Jakarta, and one retired.
/c  Includes one from DG of Estates Crops, Jakarta, three retired and one whose home institution not available.
/d  Of which 147 persons for D3 programs, excluding 3 persons who failed to complete (36 months) and 60 ford
masters programs (24 months), totalling 6,750 months. In addition, 15 training vessel crew members and
60 trainers and teachers were provided with a short training course.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4367-IND and PIU, AAET, MOA.



- 19 -
E. Project Costs and Financing
Table 5:  Project Costs by Type of Expenditure /a
(US dollar million)
Appraisal         Actual at
Category                     Estimate /b      Completion        % Change
Land acquisition                         8.48            8.95 /c          6%
Civil Works                             61.60           40.84           -34%
Material, equipment, furniture and      24.40           29.87            22%
vessels
Technical Assistance:                   10.75            8.11            -25%
Professional & consultant services,
fellowships and studies
Project management, monitoring and        -              2.29
supervision
Total Project Cost                    105.23           90.06            -14%
Front end fee                            0.16            0.16
Total financing required               105.39           90.22            -14%
/a The calculation of the project costs at completion is based on (i) the project account audit report
for the year 1991/92 for the period through March 1992; and (ii) for the remaining three months,
the actual disbursement record, and Bank staff estimates for Borrower contribution in accordance
with Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as amended. There are discrepancies between the figures
produced by Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and by Bank staff. Despite the efforts to reconcile
the figures with the PIU, no satisfactory results were obtained.
/b Including contingencies.
/c The total value of land was Rp.9,221,948,344 (US$8.95 million equivalent); of which
Rp. 202,016,250 was financed from the Central Government and the remainder
(Rp. 9,019,942,094) was contributed by local governments.
Comments:
The cost underrun of 14% (US$15.17 million) was primarily attributable to devaluations of the Rupiah
currency which took place during the project period. The Rupiah was devalued from Rp. 970/US dollar
at appraisal in 1982 to Rp. 2,020/US dollar in the last year of disbursement. The declining value of the
Rupiah against US dollar and the extensions of the Closing Date enabled several initiatives to be
undertaken (Part I, para 5.5, Part 1ll, Table 4A). As mutually agreed by the Government and the Bank,
some of the expenditures incurred at the early stage of project implementation for design work and site
survey were disbursed from Ln. 1692-IND (Second Agricultural Training Project) and are not included
in the cost of this project.



- 20 -
E.  Project Costs and Financing (continued)
Table 6:  Project Financing
Planned
(Ln. 2341 -IND)      Revised             Final
Agreement         (July 11N   _        (June 1992_
Source _($'000j)    %                (US$'O0   _    _ (US$U000  __ 
IBRD
Expenditure Categones
(1) Civil Works               28,800              32,000              31,222
(2) Materials, equipment,      14,900             18,000              22,345
furniture and vessels
(3) Professional and           7,400               7,000               8,111
consultants' services,
fellowsips and
studies
(4) Project management,           -                4,000               1,078
monitoring and
supervision
(5) Fee                          158                 158                 158
(6) Unallocated                12,042              2,142                  0
Fund /a                        -                   -                  -2.4
Total IBRD                  63,300     60%      63,30     67%       62~912    70%
Government                         42,100     40%      31,250    33%      27,31      30%
TOTAL                      10,0       100%      94,550    100%      90,       100%
/a The amount represents the exchange rate difference between the amount charged to the Loan when
the funds are advanced to the Account and the US$ equivalent when the advance was documented.
Comments:
The above project costs show that the total project cost was US$90.22 million compared with the appraisal
estimates of US$105.4 million, with the Bank financing 70% (US$62.91 million), and the Government financing 30%
(US$27.31 million). In responding to the budgetary constraints facing the Government, the Loan Agreement was
amended in July 1986 to: (i) include a new category, 'project management, monitoring and supervision" financed
100% by the Loan; (ii) increase disbursement against civil works from 70% to 90%; and (iii) include furniture in the
category of material, equipment and vessels, and to increase disbursement against local expenditures
from 60% to 75%.



- 21 -
E. Project Costs and Financing (continued)
Table 7:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in US dollar)
(Ln. 2341 -IND)
Agreement      Revised       Revised          Final
Category                  Original    (July 1986)    (June 1991)    (June 1992)
(1) Civil Works                   28,800,000    32,000,000    31,040,000    31,222,019.72
(2) Materials, equipment, furniture    14,900,000  18,000,000  23,040,000   22,344,851.09
and vessels
(3) Professional and consultants'  7,400,000     7,000,000     8,000,000     8,110,752.60
services, fellowships and
studies
(4)  Project management,                 -       4,000,000     1,062,145      1,078,417.20
monitoring and supervision
(5) Fee                             157,855       157,855       157,855        157,855.00
(6) Unallocated                   12,042,145     2,142,145            0             0.00
Fund                                     -             -             -           (2,405.79) /a
Undisbursed balance canceled             -             -             -         388,510.18
as of June 29, 1992
TOTAL                          63,300,000    63 300 ~Q00       63,300,000  63,300,000.00
Loan Account Closed on June 29,1992.
/a The amount represents the exchange rate difference between the amount charged to the Loan when
funds are advanced to the Account and the US$ equivalent when the advance was documented.



- 22 -
F.  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Compliance with Loan Covenants
Covenants                     Description of Covenants               Status
Section 3.02      Employ consultants with qualifications, experience  Complied with.
and temis and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Bank.
Section 3.05 (b)  Ensure that each SPP to be provided with physical  Complied with except for
facilities shall have a total land area of not less than  one provincial SPP in
7.5 ha in Java and not less than 15 ha outside Java.  Jakarta which was
provided with 4 ha of
land.
Section 3.06 (a)  By December 31, 1983, submit to the Bank for   In compliance. The staff-
comment a staffing plan for the Planning Division of  ing plan was submitted
METE.                                          in February 1984.
Section 3.06 (b)  By December 31,1984, submit a proposal to streng-    In compliance. The
then planning capacities of the Planning Division of  proposal was submitted
METE.                                          in February 1984.
Section 3.07 (a)  By December 31, 1983, fumish to the Bank a staff-  In compliance. The staff-
ing plan for the Center for Agricultural Manpower  ing plan was submitted
Manpower Development.                          in February 1984.
Section 3.07 (b)  Furnish to the Bank for comment an annual work  In compliance.
program
Section 4.02 (b)  Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the audit report   In compliance. The
annually not later than six months after the end of  audit report for FY92/93
each fisal year.                               due September 1993.



-23 -
G. Use of Bank Resources
Table 9:    Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle (staff-weeks)
Stage of
Proect Cycle FY82  FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92 FY93 Total
Preparation   24.9   8.0                                                              32.9
Appraisal          36.9                                                               36.9
Negotiations        0.6  0.5                                                           1.1
Supervision              4.2  14.4  14.8   7.3   8.9   9.2  10.7   6.9   5.6  6.1  88.1
Total     24.9  45.5  4.7  14.4  14.8   7.3   8.9   9.2  10.7   6.9   5.6  6.1 159.0
Note: Includes local staff inputs of the Resident Mission.
Table 10:   Mission Data
Status of       Month/ Number of Days in   Specialization    Performance      Types of
ProrectCycle       Year   Persons   Field   Reprented a/   Ratin Statusb        Problems c
Identification   11/81    2           18   Ec, AEd
Preparation      03/82    4          21   Ed. AEc. Ec. AED
Pre-appraisal    07/82     1          19   AEd
Appraisal        09/82    5           20   E, A, AEd, Ed
Post-appraisal   03/83     1          10   E
Supervision 1    10/83    2           3   E,A                   1
Supervision II   06/84     1          3   A                     1              F
Supervision III    11/84    2         11   AEd,A                 1             F
Supervision IV   03/85     1          3   A                      1             F
Supervision V    11/85    2           2   Ec,A                   1
Supervision VI   03/86    3            7   Ec, AEd, A            1             F
Supervision VII    02/87   1           5   T                     1             F
Supervision VIII   06/88    1         11   T                     1             F
Supervision IX   03/89    2           16   T,A                   1             F
Supervision X    11/89    4           4   T,A,LO,Au              1             F
Supervision XI   05/90    4            5   T, A, LO, Au          1             F, M
Supervision XII    02/91   4           4   T, A, LO, OA          1             F, M
Supervision XIII   12/91   3           5   T, A, LO              1             F, M
Supervision XIV    05/92    3          6   T, A, LO              1             M
/a Specializations are: E = Educator; Ec = Economist; T = Training Specialist; A = Architect;
AEc = Agricultural Economist; AEd = Agricultural Educator; OA = Operations Assistant; ED = Editor;
LO = Loan Operations Officer; Au = Auditor.
/b Perfom ance ratings are: 1 = problem free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problems;
3 = major problems receiving adequate attention; and 4 = major problems not receiving attention.
/c Types of problems: T = Technical; F = Financial; and M = Managerial.



INDONESIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT (Ln. 2341-IND)
TRAINING INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT
PRESERVICE TRAINING (SPPs)
Year                                      _OutRut 1981/82  _          Output 1991/92          Staffing_1991/92
Constr.                                 No.of  Gradu-  Repeat- No.of  Gradu-  Repeat-  No. of   No. of Teaching
Compl- Training places  Enrollment/a  Gradu-  ating  ing 3rd  Gradu- ating  ing 3rd  Teaching  staff w/degree_
Neo.       Location/Province        eted   1981/821991/92 1981/821991/92   ates   (%)   year (%)_ates   (%)   year (%) staf1 /b         No.    %
Provincial SPPs: (Improved)
1. SPP Saree, Aceh                 1987       260    154       84     61       62     31       69      48    100         0      20        10     50
2.  SPP Asahan, N. Sumatra         1986       242    259       86    102       43     61       39       88    100        0      12         3     25
3. SPP Tapanuli Selatan,N.Sumatra 1986        193    203       84     63       53     49       51       46     96        4      15         4     27
4.  SPP Kerinci, Jambi             1986       238    273       56    133       78     83       17       81    100        0      15         5     33
5. SPP Balai Selasa, W. Sumatra    1987       163    113       58     27       32     60       40       36    100        0      13         4     31
6. SPP Sijunjune, W. Sumatra       1986       203    234       84     91       66     83       17       60    100        0      14         4     29
7. SPP Hajimena, Lampung            1986      222    217       81     72       50     65       35       78    100        0      18         7     39
8. SPP Ciganjur, Jakarta            1986      183    249       78     77       32     84       16       77    100        0      25         6     24
9. SPP Tangerang, West Java        1986       125    197       91     61       22     58       42       21    100        0      22         7     32
10. SPP Cianjur, WestJava           1986      170    158       89    107        43     30       70      38    100        0       15         3     20
11. SPP Subang, West Java           1986      215    245       84      56       71     91        9      72    100        0       18         3     17
12. SPP Tanjungsari, West Java      1986      238    348       84    128        69     92        8     138    100        0       52        25     48
13. SPP Tasikmalaya. West Java      1986      290    374      189    152        70     37       63     152      85      15       25         7     28
14. SPP Ciamis, West Java           1986      324    215       139     87       69     37       63      79    100        0       35         9     26
15. SPP Kuningan, West Java         1986      289      84       77     19       73     38       62      40    100        0       19         5     26
16. SPP Cirebon, West Java          1986      289    180        91     59      104     96        4      75      99        1      23         4     17
17. SPP Pati, Central Java          1986      423    135        77     28       66     57       43      93    100        0       20         1      5
18. SPP Sukoharjo, Central Java     1986      338    108       102     41       91     38       62      40    100        0       12         3     25
19. SPP Kediri, East Java           1986      405    309       158    130      111     93        7      93    100        0       25        11     44
20. SPP Ponorogo, East Java         1986       202    276      107     80       42     50       50     137    100         0      16         6     38
21. SPP Lumajang, EastJava          1987       170    168       71     73        7     41       59     102    100         0      25        11     44
22. SPPTulungagung, EastJava        1986       410    262      153    110       66     59       41      87    100         0      26         9     35
23. SPP Bondowoso, East Java        1987       385    120      139     32       62     78       22      80    100         0       8         5     63
24. SPP Banyuwangi, EastJava        1986       409    557      150    215      112     78       22     155      99        1      32        16     50
25. SPP B.Leleng, Bali              1986       137     55       41     20       39    100        0      26    100         0      15         8     53
26. SPP Bima, W. Nusa Tenggara    1986          48    282       48    136       26     70       30      70      99        1      18         9     50
27. SPP Singkawang, W. Kalimantan 1986         205    280       89    106       63     94        6      50      91        9      15         6     40
28. SPP Buntok, C. Kalimantan       1986       178    182       49     77       58     73       27      24    100         0      15         2     13
29. SPP Polmas, S. Sulawesi         1987       378    320      108    176      122     75       25      64    100         0      23        17     74
30. SPP Palopo, S. Sulawesi         1987       319    292       96    124       60     67       33      82    100        0       23        12     52
Subtotal                     7651  6849   2 8                1862    59.7    403   2 232   98.4         1.6     614       222     36
O 



TRAINING INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT
PRESERVICE TRAINING (SPPs) (Continued)
Year                                        Outpu. 1981/82          Output 1991/92         Staffing 1991/92
Constr.                                No.of  Gradu-  Repeat- No.of  Gradu-  Repeat- No. of   No. of Teaching
Compl- Trainingplaces   Enrollment /a  Gradu- ating  ing 3rd  Gradu- ating  ing 3rd  Teaching  staff w/degree
No.       Location/Province        eted   1981/821991/92 1981/821991/92   ates   (%J   year (%)  ates   (%)   year (%) staff /b      No.    %
State SPPs: (Newl
1. SPP Natarbora                  1987      -       241     -       91           -            -      83    100       0       16       13    81
2. SPP Bangkinang, Riau           1987       -      232     -       80              -                74    100       0        8        5     63
3. SPP Ujung Pandang,S.Sulawesi  1987       -       188     -       80              -                34     94       6        7        5     71
4. SPP Ladong,Aceh                1989      -       240     -       78              -         -      69    100       0       23       10    43
5. SPP Pariaman, W. Sumatra       1987      -       246             93       -      -         -      59    100       0       18       12     67
6. SPP Pontianak, W. Kalimantan    1987             293     -      117       -      -          -     85     98       2       16       13    81
7. SPP Waiheru, Ambon             1987       -      209     -       90       -      -          -     76    100       0       13        9     69
8. SPP Bone                       1987              240     -       78       -      -          -     95    100       0       28       16     57
9. SPP Sorong (additional)        1992              240     -      129       -      -                52    100       0       27        8     30
Irian Jaya
Subtotal                      -    2,129     -      836       -       -              627   99.4      0.6     156       91     58
Fishery Training Institute          1991      364    795     156    248       93    100        0     225    100       0       50 /c    49     98
1.  Outstation, Serang, W. Java
TOTAL                       721  10,575   2,999  3,727   1,955   60.9    39.1   3,084   98.7         1.3    820       362     44
/a  Represents new enrollments in respective years.
/b  Includes part-time teaching staff.
/c  Teaching staff are mainly from the Fishery Academy (AUP), Jakarta.
Source: PIU, AAET, MOA.
Comments: The objective of this component to improve the quality and internal efficiency of provincial SPPs by lowering repeater rates and increasing examina-
tion pass rates and bringing the rates close to those of the state SPPs, has been fully achieved. These rates in 1991/92 were 1.6% and 98.4% compared with
those of 21 % and 79% of all provincial SPPs in 1981/82, respectively. Also, the examination pass rate of the new nine state SPPs established under the project
exceeded the average pass rate (98%) of all state SPPs in 1981/82, reaching 99.4%. However, the quality of training varies widely between institutions.
One of the importantfeatures which can be drawn from the training data of all SPPs (Attachment 2) is that the overall number of applicants for admission has
declined substantially from 30,166 in 1981/82 to 18,482 in 1991/92 or by about 39%. In particular, the numbers of applicants to the state and provincial SPPs have
dropped sharply during the same period by 65% and 46%, respectively, while they have increased for the private SPPs by about 67%. During this period, the
number of private SPPs almost quintupled but the training quality is reportedly lower than in provincial SPPs. Although a detailed analysis needs to be carried out
of the data collected for the evaluation of the Third Agricultural Training and Third National Agricultural Extension Projects, the declining applicants appear to reflec
the changing manpower demand in the agriculture sector. Under these circumstances and in view of the fact that the agriculture sector, after successfully reaching  > X
rice self-sufficiency, is now at a critical point in development, it is essential for the AAET, together with other government authorities involved, to undertake a
thorough review of training needs as well as quality of training to meet the requirement of the sector.                                               N



-26 -
PART IlIl
INDONESIA                            Attachment 2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT (Ln. 2341 -IND)
SPPs: APPUCANTS, ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT, 1981/82 AND 1991/92
1981/82
State       Provincial       Private           Total
No. of schools                  22             59             26               107
Applicants                   11,956         14,281          3,929            30,166
% admitted                      18             41             42                32
1styearenrollment            2,178          5,745           1,644             9,567
2nd year enrollment          1,730           4,792          1,475             7,997
3rd year enrollment           1,408          4,842          1,397             7,647
Total                   5316          15379            4,516           25211
% of total enrollment           21             61              18              100
% graduating                    98             79             78                83
% repeating 3rd year             2             21              22               16
1991/92
State       Provincial       Pnvate            Total
No. of schools                  30             59             126              215
Applicants                   4,204           7,711          6,567            18,482
% admitted                      48             65             72                64
1 st year enrollment         2,036          5,046           4,739            11,821
2nd year enrollment           1,637          5,914          5,595            13,146
3rd year enrollment          2,384           4,898          4,361            11,643
Total                   6,057         15,858          14,695           3
% of total enrollment           17             43             40               100
Number of graduates          2370            4671           4110             11,151
% graduating                  99.4            95.4           94.2              95.8
% repeating 3rd year           0.6             4.6            5.8               4.2
% of total graduates            21             42             37               100
SPPs supported under the project:
No. of schools                   9             30           na                  39
% graduating                  99.4            98.4          na                 98.0
% repeating 3rd year           0.6             1.6          na                  2.0
na = not applicable.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report No. 4367 for 1981/82 data and PIU, AAET, MOA for 1991/92 data.



- 27 -
PART IlIl
INDONESIA                           Attachment 3
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT (Ln. 2341 -IND)
TRAINING INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT
INSERVICE TRAINING CENTERS (ISTCs)
1991/92               Staffing 1991/92
Year  Train-    Output    Utiliza-  No. of No. of Teaching
Constr.  ing   Staff  others tion rate Teach- staff with degree
No.      Location/Province     Compl. places  onlyiincl. /a %) /b  ing staff  No.    %
Inservice Training Centers: (4 new
agricultural & 1 fishery improved)
1. ISTC Hajimena, Lampung       1987     60    330   970   82        27    10       37
2. ISTC Samarinda, E. Kalimantan   1987  60    240   433   48         7      6       86
3. ISTC Waiheru, Ambon, Maluku   1986    60    210   489   47         8      4       50
4. ISTC Sentani,Jayapura,       1986     60    270   756   65        10      3       30
Iran Jaya
Subtotal                   240   1,050  2,648   60      52    23       44
5. ISTC Fishery Banyuwangi      1986     60    300  1,2   80         25    15        60
(improved/relocated)
Total                     300   150  3,660   64       129    61       47
/a Include farmers and fishermen trained.
/b Each ISTC has an annual training capacity of 600 staff-months (60 places x 10 months p.a.), and
the utilization rate was calculated based on an average course of one month for staff and one week for
non-staff (farmers and fishermen).
Source: PIU, AAET, MOA
Comments: Four new agricultural ISTCs were established as planned at appraisal in four provinces
(Lampung, South Kalimantan, Maluku and Irian Jaya), all in the Outer Islands where no agricultural ISTC
was existed, bringing total ISTC capacity from 3,275 to 3,575 places. Each ISTC provides skill-upgrading
courses in technical and management subjects relevant to the particular agricultural needs and priorities
of the province, in addition to provision of remedial training for underqualified staff, and administrative and
promotional training required for all staff.
In 1991/92 the utilization rate of the new four project ISTCs was about 600/o on the average, substantially
lower than that of 75% in 1981/82. Based on 1981/82 and 1991/92 data, major training objectives were
allocated in respective years as follows:
1981/82     1991/92
Orientation training          23            19
Remedial training             17            10
Skill upgrading               48            71
Promotional training          12
100           100
A considerably higher proportion of the training was used for skill upgrading in 1991/92 compared with that
in 1981/82. Shifting training efforts toward performance related is a positive one. However, the declined
utilization rate in project ISTCs is a concem and should be reviewed thoroughly by AAET and other
concerned government agencies, to ensure effective utilization of the ISTCs and take full benefits of the
investment made.



INDONESIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT (Ln. 2341-IND)
AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION CENTERS (AICs) SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Year              Subject Matter Specialists, 1992              Extension Materials Production, 1991/92
Constr.     Animal              Agric. Agric. Agric.                                              Movie Cassette
Compl- Agro- husba- Fish- Fores- econo- engin- exten-       Bro-          Bulle-       Still  Slide  film  recording
No.       Location/Province       eted  nomy  ndry  ary  try   mics  eer  sion  Total   chure  Folder  tin  Poster Photo (series) 16 mrr (series)
1. AIC Pekanbaru, Riau           1986      2      -    -            2           5     9    8,000  60,000      -           2            1      10
2. AIC Jambi, Jambi              1987      1      -    -    -       2    -    3       6       -   37,500      -    -    3    58    -           10
3. AIC Palembang, South Sumatra  1987      1            1    -      2    -    2       6       -   25,000      -    -    2    30    4            4
4. AIC Bangkulu, Bengkulu        1987      1      1    -    -        1    -     1     4       -   37,500      -           5    30              10
5. AIC Sleman, Yogyakarta        1987      2      1    -    -       1    -    2       6    2,000  26,000      - 3,000    5      14    -        12
6. AIC Denpasar, Ball            1988      2      4    1    -       2    -    4    13         -   53,000      -    -    3    30    -           15
7. AIC No-Elbaki, Kupang,ENT     1987      4      4     -    -      2    -    3    13         -   10,000      -    -    -        -    -        10
8. AIC Dliil. East Tlmor         1986      2      1    -    -        -    -    2      5       -   37,000      -    -      5    30    -         24
9. AIC Pontianak, Kallmantan     1986      2      1    1    -        -    -    2      6       -   60,000      -           3      -    -        10
Barat
10. AIC Palangkaraya,             1986      -     1           -      1    -    2       4       -   60,000            -    3      -    -        10
Kallmantan, Tengah
11. AIC Samarinda, Kallmantan     1987     2      2     -    -       2    -    4    10         -   60,000      -           5    30    -        20
Selatan
12. AIC Kendarl, Sulawesi Teggara  1987    2      -           -      -    -    6       8       -   51,500  1,500    -    3       15   14       10
13. AIC Palu, Sulawesi Tengah     1986     1       -    -    -       2    -    4       7      800  50,000      -    -      3    16             12
14. AIC Kalasey, Manado,          1986     4      2    2      -      2    -    7    17         -   53,500  1,500    -      3    30    -         5
Sulaweel Utara
15. AIC Sentani, Jayapura         1986     2      2     -    -       1    -    5    10         -   37,500      -    -      3     -    -        10
Irian Jaya
Total                     28     19    5    0    20    0   52   124   10800  658,500  3000  3            4000    8   283   19  172
Source: PIU, AAET, MOA.
Comments  In support of government's aims to provide an Agricultural Informatlon Center (AIC) In each province, 15 AICs were established successfully under the
project, as planned at appraisal, in each of 15 provinces where no AIC was located. The AICs have been producing, and distributing, printed and audio-visual materials,
as shown above, to keep agricultural extension staff, farmers and training institutions Informed of agricultural developments and research. Each AIC Is appropriately
staffed with an average of 8 subject matter speclalists.                                                                                               I-u









THAILAND                                                                /                                 -                                                   ' -                                                                            INDONESIA                                      TEAR]
f-J  A no F/  CI                                                                   N ' 2  r    \ 0          PHILIPPINES  >, _-                                          THIRD AGRICULTURAL TRAINING  PROJECT
BRUNEI - .                               -/                                                                                         oJecT IN5TIIONS
1- .                MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SE) LSis'CULTaRT ORVEVfYDE        NSI.s
5                                                                                                                               / w                                                                                                               *    EISERR                                               4
SIC (lNSf ICT TE -ANING CENTIISI)                  -
2 Os                                                                                        MALAYS A             //                                                                                                                      2   AIC IAGIIC.lTUlE INfORAT   CNETERS)
SINGAPORE                             i                                 /                                                                          C        /                                     _   flTCIAL RCS/NAfR/S
Jt>                                                                           t-                                        2]    [           -                                                                       N9/   ALMAHLL' A         *NTRRNATIONA   IflTA/S
19~
ny  s i 2   ;                            _.         ~~~~~~~~~~K  A  I   I  .4f Av  / r)     .-jht                                                                                                                             o
o r - ~ 
~~                                                >2         I                                 A'iW~~~~~~~~~                   N.~~~                       9                                                -       -    --~~~2 
NAW,                                                                                 / '                         -PGR  2< 25<   Cfi0, 2; '1                                                                       -.
ACE"NC6                                 , 7C'                                                                                                           - O/ - '                                                                                               N.       AF,>\tL  J C*       2/Ar        AY
2  NO-/A  S/aEATEA                   *iW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H/A         /AT'A 
2  WEST S/WA/ia                              .                             
5/AlASg                      ~\N.                       /                                                                                                                   0. J  * 
O  S/Va/A  S/TEA/IA  N      8                                                                                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                 -  E5
7  iAN//-  i8z87WaS/I                                 - 
PRVNE                                   :A_oUA  -6AlO                                                                                                                 22T _< <    
I   AC EN2T1
/1CT./IEa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N    J~'
/2  TLC/lSAL/VA                                                                                                                                                                                                        /    
ID 4 aS/ N//A TENC/_.AR1
/8  `ALT..                                                                                    TA                      3             (          ,/CovO                    , I
17 NOR/AY 5/AWESI                                                                                   j-''4 0    -   -,                                                                                 .      
Q0  CTN/iAL 9/ AWE9S                                                                                                                         / CTTAAA.>S               ,         /OA2             r             *                                                                                                              - _ 
9  SoUT'A  EAST SAS -c                                                                                                                               -      - ,                                           '-A 'T AL /.-  ATT                                                                                TA o To
/ SCT, AiA.~UA/A,L/
E f51 IA,.WA                                                                                                                                                           646                                          >O           
/5  -ENI. TaT MAi/-AN                                                                                                                                                                                              2
'6  WENTIa         - A_ 5_ _
'7  EATL         E5lOTEfES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -   'N
ITT'                                                                                     //r                                          CR                                           IS.                                           150                                          /L '



