Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18108
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SAMOA
EMERGENCY ROAD REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Cr. 2132-WSO)
June 30, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT Samoan Tala (WS$)
(As of May 1990)
US$1.00 = WS$2.30; WS$1.00 = US$0.43
SDR1.00 = US$1.28
(As of December 1997)
US$1.00=WS$2.77; WS$1.00-US$0.36
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  2.28 feet
I kilometer- 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 -   Asian Development Bank
AIDAB              -   Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau (now, Australian Agency
for International Development, AusAID)
GoS                -   Government of Western Samoa (now, Samoa)
PWD                -   Public Works Department
Vice President:             Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:           Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:             Jeffrey S. Gutman
Task Manager:               William D. 0. Paterson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...................................................................
EVAL UATION SUIiARY ..................................................................1
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ......................           ........................................... 3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TH[E PROJECT ................................................................. 6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ................................................................. 7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ................................................................. 8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................................        8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME: .................................................................      9
H. FUTURE OPERATION .................................................................            9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .................................................................         9
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF AsSESSENT                        ..                                         1 1
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS    ..12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TiMETABLE    ..13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENrS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ..                               13
TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PIROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATioN IMETABLEs   .                          .14
B. PHYSICAL INDICATORS    ..15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .                             .                   1 5
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT    .                            .16
TABLE 8A: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS (US$) .......................................................... 17
TABLE 8A2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS (WS$) .......................................................... 1 8
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING (IJS$) .......................................................... 19
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
A. DIRECT BENEFICIARIES OF THE REHABILITATION OF SR2, SR3 & EC 1 ....... 20
B. SAMOA VISITOR'S ARRIVALS & EARNINGS .................................................. 21
TABLE 10:  STATUS OF LEGAL CO-vENANTS .......................................................... 22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........ .................... 22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .......................................................... 22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................          ................................ 23
APPENDIXES:
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE ................................................................ 24
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ................................................................   3 1
C. MAP ................................................................                        37
This document has a restricted distribultion and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.                                              -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Samoa
Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2132-WSO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2132-0-W'SO, Credit 2132-1-WSO) to the Independent State of
Western Samoa (now Samoa) for which credit of SDR 10.9 (equivalent US$14.5 million) and
supplemental credit of SDR3.7 million (equivalent US$5.1 million) were approved on May
17, 1990 and March 1, 1993 and made effective on August 23, 1990 and February 4, 1994
respectively.
The original Credit 2132-0-WSO) was fully disbursed and final disbursement was
made on September 15, 1995. Supplemental Credit 2132-1-WSO was closed on December
31, 1997 compared to the original closing date of December 31, 1994. The Supplemental
credit was also fully disbursed as of June 30, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by William Paterson, Principal Highway Engineer and
Ephrem Asebe, Consultant, (EASTR). It was reviewed by Messrs. Klaus Rohland, Director,
Papua New Guinea & Pacific Islands and Jeffrey Gutman, Manager, Transport Sector Unit,
East and Pacific Region.
Preparation of this ICR began dluring the Bank's mission for final supervision and
ICR preparation in November 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating its views as reflected in the
mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution (Appendix B).



SoAMOA
Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
(Credilt 2132-WSO)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    In February 1990, Samoa was struck by Cyclone Ofa which lasted 4 days, caused 11 fatalities
and damages estimated at US$140 million. Just 22 months later in December 1991, when restoration
works were still in process, the country was struck again by Cyclone Val which was even more severe,
lasting six days with an estimated damage cost of US$300 million and 12 fatalities. Exposed
infrastructure such as roads and bridges, power supply, distribution networks and telecommunication
services were very badly damaged. The damage to the transport sector alone was extensive, with an
estimated cost of US$34.8 million. The original Credit (2132-0-WSO) of SDR 10.9 million was
approved within three months in May 1990, financing the rehabilitation of the road and coastal
infrastructure damaged by Cyclone Ofa, and iLhe supplemental Credit (2132-1-WSO) after Cyclone
Val raised that to SDR 14.6 million (US$ 18.7 niillion) in March 1993.
Project Objectives
ii.    The objectives of the original credit, as outlined in the Memorandum and Recommendations
of the President of IDA (Report No. P-5295-WASO), were to assist the government in carrying out an
emergency road rehabilitation program to alleviate the severe disruption in the transportation sector
caused by cyclone damage, and to restore economic activities along the cyclone-affected portions of
the coast on both islands. The supplemental credit (P-5943-WSO) re-affirmed the original
objectives with extended scope, and added assistance to clear the backlog of project account audits
of then ongoing IDA-financed projects.
iii.   Project Components. Including the supplemental credit (Table 8), the project comprised:
(a)   extraordinary maintenance comprising mostly emergency works to keep the roads
passable by motor vehicles and coastal protection of stretches of the main roads from
erosion by wave action (US$0.37 million);
(b)   rehabilitation of 50.6 km of the priority links of the Upolu and Savai'i circuminsular
roads (US$15.24 million);
(c)   technical assistance and consulting services for design, construction supervision and
project management (US$3.52 million);
(d)   procurement of navigation lights and beacons to restore cyclone-damaged navigation
facilities, and road maintenance equipment (US$1.57 million); and
(e)   short-term training for PWD staff and an institutional strengthening study (US$0.24
million).



- ii-
iv.    Covenants. The appointment of a project manager was made a condition of effectiveness of
the credit to ensure prompt and smooth implementation, following implementation difficulties on
previous projects. The longer term issue of sustainability of the whole network was addressed
through a main covenant requiring the borrower to make appropriate annual allocations for routine
road maintenance. There were also standard requirements on project accounting and auditing.
v.    Evaluation of objectives. The design of the project objectives was conceptually clear and
focused on the country's economic recovery by restoring the highest priority road sections. Through
extraordinary maintenance it restored traffic movement quickly, and through reconstruction it
elevated strategic arterial road sections to a more resilient sustainable standard with adequate
protection from natural shocks. The Association's choice of the road sector for emergency
rehabilitation was strategic and in line with IDA's overall goal of poverty alleviation through the
linkage of construction and community economic activities. The choice was based on the
recommendations of the ad hoc advisory group of IDA, established in accordance with OD 8.50, and
also on findings of the appraisal mission. Rehabilitation of the road network was rightly viewed as
extremely important for the country's economic recovery, especially for the resumption of normal
transport movements between the two islands and normal economic activities. The project was
demanding on the country's overtaxed institutional capacity in the initial stages under the emergency
conditions but proved achievable over the project period.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.    Achievement. The project substantially achieved its primary objectives of restoring normal
transportation and removed the transport constraints to economic activities through restoration of
cyclone-damaged road sections. A total of 48.7 km of severely damaged sections of circuminsular
primary road, two in Savai'i and one in Upolu, were satisfactorily rehabilitated to an appropriate
standard, within budget and the original closing date of the project. Under the supplemental credit,
the project further contributed to the sustainability of the road network through substantial extension
of coastal protection, bridge replacement, road preservation works, safety measures, institutional
strengthening and private sector development. The traffic safety initiative has won the support of the
community and is having significant impact on reducing accident rates particularly involving
children. The extensive ongoing dialogue since 1992 on the scope and output of the two phases of
the PWD Institutional Strengthening Study has resulted in an internal motivation in the agency for
improving business processes and restructuring PWD. The sustainability of the project benefits is
likely, assuming there are not substantial changes in the incidence and severity of natural weather-
related disasters, and assuming the continuance of the government's new performance-output
approach to budget allocations.
vii.   The Credit was fully disbursed on September 15, 1995. The Supplemental Credit was also
fully disbursedl as at June 30, 1998. The total value was WS$66.16 million compared to the
appraisal estimate of WS$49.48 million, due to the appreciation of SDR. The first Credit was
completed within the scheduled period. However, the project was extended three times, each
extension was for one year. The project extension allowed for the development of the institutional
lDocumentation for the eligibility of a final disbursement amount of SDR 499,099.09 is under review.



- iii -
strengthening objectives which now serves as a basis of the succeeding project, the Infrastructure
Asset Management Project.
viii. The major factor outside the control of the government was the destruction caused by
Cyclone Val which followed 22 months after Cyclone Ofa. This was a significant but not sole cause
of delays in project implementation and of increased costs. The main factor in Government's control
was its strong coordinated response to the emergency and restoration of services in critical areas
which commenced immediately after each cyclone. It also provided more resources for road'
maintenance than covenanted under the credit. The other key causes of delay and increased costs
were potentially controllable. Numerous landowner interventions, most seeking compensation,
accounted for several delays and added some WS$1.0 million to the cost of EC1. A variety of
government liaison meetings, project liaison ;md contractor actions (including small jobs in local
communities) helped to improve public relations and resolve the issues, but these need to be put in
place earlier in future. Contractor inexperience, under-resourcing of equipment and skills, and
financial requirements were among the initial implementation difficulties which could be avoided
through improving the procurement process.
ix.   Bank response to the emergency situation facing Samoa following the Cyclones Ofa was
considered highly satisfactory. Every effort was made to expedite the processing of the credit
towards effectiveness and the teams were responsive to borrower needs. Staff performance during
implementation was highly satisfactory. Supervision was flexible, detailed and informative. The
Public Works Department found that IDA missions served as a window of opportunity for enhancing
their professional growth and providing feedback. Both the PWD and Treasury staff viewed project
supervision staff as easy to communicate amd work with and appreciated the flexibility and
responsiveness of IDA in the design of the final program.
x.    Borrower performance during preparation was highly satisfactory.  The government
responses after the Cyclones were prompt, imnnediately requesting an assessment of the extent of the
damage and assistance from the donor community. Planning and preparation for the rehabilitation of
the damaged infrastructure started immediately, but there were delays during initial procurement and
later numerous delays were associated with the processing of procurement authorizations and
progress reporting. PWD were particularly responsive to the institutional component and took
ownership of key initiatives. Overall performance is rated satisfactory.
xi.    Overall, the outcome of the project is aessessed as satisfactory. The main road network is now
substantially in good condition and to an appropriate modem standard, with enhanced protection that
has reduced the risk of transport disruption to low levels for up to 20-year weather-related events.
Substantive progress has been made on social and institutional sustainability through mitigating
associated road safety hazards, strengthening public works, provision of physical resources for
maintenance and fleet management. A platform for the reform of public works has also been
established through the Institutional Strengthening Study which served as a focal point of dialogue to
heighten the sense of government ownership of the road asset management program.



- iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
xii.   Findings. The policies set out in OD 8.50, which were followed in project design, were
appropriate for this emergency situation and resulted in satisfactory accomplishment of the project
objectives.
xiii.   Future operations. The plan for the future project operations and sustainability essentially
rests on the implementation of the proposed IDA Infrastructure Asset Management Project. That
Project calls for: (i) effective management of the infrastructure assets; (ii) ensuring safe and reliable
operation and minimizing risk exposure of all transport and coastal infrastructure assets that are vital
to the economy; and (iii) efficient delivery of infrastructure services by public and private sectors.
xiv.   Key lessons learned. The most important lessons of this project are:
(a)    The infrastructure sector is a crucial link determining the country's ability to respond
to high risk natural shocks.  Ensuring appropriate standards and sustainable
management of infrastructure are important priorities for the Government, and
warrants continued engagement of IDA in the sector with these objectives.
(b)    the contribution to institutional strengthening under the project was significant, as it
strengthened dialogue, provided a basis for improving business processes and
restructuring, and developed a foundation for infrastructure asset management that
will support the sustainability of the project works;
(c)    The most appropriate framework for effective participation of the private sector in
the provision of infrastructure services needs to be found for Samoa, which is limited
by a thin market. The selective use of joint-venture arrangements, the use of small-
to-moderate package sizes, improved procurement procedures, and careful detailing
of financial requirements need to be tailored so as to develop the enabling
environment further for national and regional firms; and
(d)    The protection of infrastructure in coastal areas involves a range of "hard" and "soft"
solutions which need to be designed to harmonize with coastal processes and with
social and cultural preferences. There is a need to assess and manage coastal hazards
more strategically, and to involve the communities and landowners in reaching
comprehensive and cost-effective solutions which are also socially and
environmentally sustainable.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SAMOA
Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2132-WSO).
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Background. The International Development Association (IDA) has been involved in
Samoa's transport sector since 1975, when IDA financed the upgrading and sealing of the East
Coast road and Central Cross-Island road, both on Upolu, under the First Highway Project. In
1979, IDA fmanced the sealing of the South Coast Savai'i road under the Agricultural Credit,
and in 1990 one road (Richardson's) was included under the Multi-Project co-financed with
ADB. In February 1990, Samoa was struck by Cyclone Ofa which lasted from February I to 4, and
caused 11 fatalities and damages estimated at US$140 million - a figure well in excess of Samoa's
estimated 1989 GDP of US$ 100 million. Samoa was struck again by Cyclone Val, from December
6 to 12, 1991 which was even more severe, with an estimated cost of damage of US$300 million
and 12 fatalities. Exposed infrastructure such as roads and bridges, power supply, distribution
networks and telecommunication services were very badly damaged. The damage to the
transport sector alone was extensive, with an estimated cost of some US$34.8 million. Key
portions of the 2,400 km road network and. approximately 15 of the country's major bridges were
damaged, some extensively. During both cyclones, the response of the Government as well as
the donor community was prompt. The Bank which had recently started to identify a highway
project, responded to the first cyclone by preparing the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2132-0-WSO) within three months. Further, when the second cyclone caused more
damage to the sections under restoration, IDA extended a Supplemental Credit (Credit-2132-1-
WSO) increasing the credit amount by 340%.
2.    Project Objectives. As outlined in the Memorandum and Recommendations of the
President of IDA, Report No. P-5295-WSO, the objectives of the original credit were to assist the
government in carrying out an emergency road rehabilitation program to alleviate the severe
disruption in the transportation sector caused by cyclone damage and to restore economic
activities along the cyclone-affected portions of the coast on both islands. The supplemental
credit (P-5943-WSO) re-affirmed the original objectives and had an added objective of assisting
the Government to clear the backlog of audits of project accounts of then ongoing IDA-financed
projects.
3.    Project Components.  Including the supplemental credit (Table 8), the project
comprised:



-2 -
(a)   extraordinary maintenance, comprising mostly emergency works to keep the roads
passable by motor vehicles and also coastal protection of stretches of the main
roads from erosion by wave action (US$0.37 million);
(b)   rehabilitation of 50.6 km of priority sections of the circuminsular roads on Upolu
and Savai'i (US$15.24 million);
(c)  technical assistance and consulting services for design, construction supervision,
and project management (US$3.52 million);
(d)   procurement of navigation lights and beacons to restore cyclone-damaged
navigation facilities, and road maintenance equipment (US$1.57 million); and
(e)   short-term training for PWD staff and an institutional strengthening study ($0.15
million).
4.    Modification. The Supplemental Credit Agreement reached following Cyclone Val
allocated additional resources to rehabilitation works, consultant services and equipment (Table
8) without extending the closing date of December 31, 1994. After substantial completion of the
original civil works program at the end of 1994, the government requested that the uncommitted
balance of US$3.63 million which had arisen from SDR appreciation be used to enhance the
sustainability of the emergency works. In line with the objectives of the project, a Final Program
was developed including further bridge replacement, preventive coastal protection, and
strengthening of the Public Works Department's planning and managerial capacities, including a
pilot road safety program to raise community awareness and mitigate rising safety hazards
around the restored roads.
5.    Covenants and Conditions. The appointment of a project manager was made a
condition of effectiveness of the credit to ensure prompt and smooth implementation, following
implementation difficulties on previous projects. The longer term issue of sustainability of the
whole network was addressed through a main covenant requiring the borrower to make
appropriate annual allocations for routine road maintenance. There were also standard
requirements on project accounting and auditing.
6.    Evaluation of objectives. The design of the project objectives was conceptually clear
and realistic. The immediate objective was strongly focused on the country's economic recovery
by restoring the highest priority road sections that had been cut and severely damaged. Through
the extraordinary maintenance, it restored traffic movement quickly and improved coastal
protection for the road assets, so lowering the risk of future recurring damage. The implied
objective of improving the long-term sustainability of the whole road network was addressed
through staff training, institutional strengthening, preventive coastal protection, and through
covenanted resource allocation for adequate maintenance. These long-term elements of the
project design were a valuable feature of the project, and provided a principal focus for the final
program that was implemented after the original closing date at the end of 1994.



-3 -
7.    The Association's choice of the road sector for emergency rehabilitation was strategic
and in line with IDA's overall goal of poverty alleviation through the linkage of construction and
access to community economic activity. It was based on the recommendations of the ad hoc
advisory group of IDA which was established in accordance with OD8.50 and also on the
appraisal mission's findings. Rehabilitation of the road network was rightly viewed as extremely
important for the country's economic recovery, especially for the resumption of normal transport
movements between the two islands and normal economic activities.
8.    The project had a high risk of implementation delays because institutional capacity was
over-taxed and the implementing agency was not very familiar with international procurement.
The appointment of a project manager, assisted by PWD staff, and the use of consultants for
supervision and contracts for most rehabilitation works were measures designed to alleviate the
perceived risk of delayed implementation. Minimum changes in alignment of the roads and early
start of land acquisition by the government aimed to reduce the delays in construction. The
country's limited market was also a constraint to attracting sufficient contractors and prolonged
the bidding and contract award period.
B. Achicvement of Objectives
9.    Overall assessment.  The project substantially achieved its primary objectives of
restoring normal transportation and removing the transport constraints to economic activities
through the rehabilitation of cyclone-damaged road sections. For example, after an initial
decline, the number of visitors to Samoa increased and exceeded pre-cyclone levels by 1994, and
earnings from tourism had also picked up (Table 9B). Under the supplemental credit, the project
contributed towards the sustainability of the road network through further coastal protection,
bridge replacement, road preservation civil works, safety measures, institutional strengthening
and private sector development.
Restoration of normal transportation.
10.   Extraordinary maintenance.  'The extraordinary maintenance provided immediate
temporary access on main roads, and restored full access on the plantations and Apia town roads,
so allowing quick resumption of agricultural and other economic activities. All extraordinary
maintenance was completed within 8 months of the first cyclone. Coastal protection works were
undertaken along the arterial road to the international airport and other vulnerable strategic road
sections. These were implemented primarily by PWD force account operations.
11.   Reconstruction/Rehabilitation. A total of 48.7 km of severely damaged sections of the
circuminsular primary roads on Savai'i (SR2 and SR3, 29.2 km) and Upolu (EC1, 19.5 km) were
satisfactorily reconstructed and rehabilitated to an appropriate design standard, at costs close to
the estimates made after the second cyclone, and by the original closing date of the project
(Tables 5 & 8A). Survey and design work were undertaken by two international consulting firms
on Savai'i and Upolu respectively, in May-August 1990, and contract awards were quick after
limited international competitive bidding, however mobilization of the contractors only occurred



-4 -
in May (Savai'i) and July (Upolu), 1991. The reconstruction works were carried out in three
packages by two joint ventures of regional and local companies. The joint venture arrangements
were partially effective in expediting the execution of the works (para. 20) and in enhancing the
capabilities of the local contracting industry (para. 16).
12.   Salelologa-Puapua (SR2, 22 Ion): SR2 is a significant section, comprising 12% of the
178 km primary road along the north-east coast of Savai'i, which links four districts comprising
43% of the villages and 29% of the population (Table 9A). Civil works began only in October
1991, 15 months after contract award. The contract period was extended by 125 days, due to
Cyclone Val, and work was completed in February 1993, at 6% above the supplemental cost
estimate. Overall, the quality of the works was satisfactory, and minor problems were corrected
during the contract and maintenance periods. To avoid delaying completion of Vaitolo bridge,
defective bridge beams which had been shipped without inspection, were accepted by PWD with
indemnification for costs in the case of beam failure for five years to February 1998, which has
since lapsed without problem. Dayworks costing US$149,080 above the amount provided in the
contract (US$80,000) were included as part of the social support of the project.
13.   Sataua-Asau (SR3; 9 Ian): The road section SR3, comprising about 5% of the primary
road along the north coast of Savai'i, serves 7 villages with 8 percent of the population of
Savai'i. Works commenced on site in July 1992, and were completed on April 14, 1993. No
extension of time was required. The quality of works was generally satisfactory, except for the
evenness of the pavement surface which in places required repair before hand over. Final actual
estimated cost was WS$3.63 million (5% below the supplemental estimate).
14.   Moata'a-Saluafata (ECI, 19.6 kin): Comprising about 10% of the primary road length
on Upolu, the East Coast Road section ECI, between Moata'a and Saluafata, serves about 30%
of the island's population (Table 9). The final cost of reconstruction, design and supervision was
WS$19.92 million, a 20% increase in cost over the estimate compared with increases of 35% in
work and 75% in duration. Practical completion was achieved in September 1993 after a
contract duration of 800 days. The additional cost and duration was due in part to the impact of
Cyclone Val, but a substantial part was also due to other controllable factors, especially
landowner disruptions (para. 20). Inexperience, poor equipment and financial problems of the
contractor and a quarry fatality caused initial delays of four months in the first year, but progress
became satisfactory after the mobilization of more equipment under the contract extension.
Damage due to the second cyclone required changes in the alignment and additional earthworks
and coastal protection. The majority of structural bridge works was completed by April 1992 as
programmed. A second bridge replacement at Laulii and a second coat surface treatment were
implemented under the final program.
15.   Coastal protection: The rock seawalls, including the reduced design standard adopted
after model flume tests in Australia, have performed satisfactorily to date (some under Cyclone
Val) but have not been fully tested by a major event since their completion. The performance of
sand replenishment on the major beaches on SR2 was considered marginal, with some sections
eroding by wind and wave action and others aggrading due to littoral currents. At Solosolo on
EC 1, changes in the littoral currents due to reef damage caused retreat of the shoreline by more



than 40 m reaching the shoulder of the road by 1996. In view of these threats and mounting
requests frorn PWD and affected villagers, i:he final program included further preventive coastal
protection, comprising a total 3.9 km length of rock seawalls at five vulnerable sites, three on
Savai'i and two on EC1 on Upolu (Table 5B). These were designed and constructed in
accordance with the original set of five rockwall and sand replenishment design alternatives
developed for the project.
16.   Other Works: The final program also included (Table 5B): (i) the replacement of two
bridges - one cyclone-prone, structurally and functionally obsolete bridge at Lotofaga-Uta, and
one bridge destroyed by the cyclones at Sal[esatele; (ii) second coat seal of Savai'i South Coast
road; and (iii) additional minor road safety works, including footpaths, bus stop bays and
signage. The rehabilitation of footpaths in Apia, construction of bus-bays, and line marking
programs have been very effective in enhancing safety and are highly appreciated by the
communities, because a high proportion of the traffic on the roads rehabilitated under the
emergency programs comprise pedestrians and bus-users.
Improved capabilities of PWD
17.   Capacity building. In conjunction with the primary project objective, institutional
capacity was developed with varied success through four areas:
(a)   Strengthening PWD's planning and managerial capabilities:  During the
reconstruction work, PWD was unable due to workload and thin staffing to assign
staff to the consultants to gai]n experience in project management and supervision.
Under the later program, four of PWD's senior staff (Table 7) got first-hand
exposure on good practices in institutional reforms, road safety management,
contract management, maintenance and operation. As a result, there is now a
move for a more cost-effective and business-oriented PWD, which could attract
and retain skilled staff and also give a greater role to the private sector.
(b)   Strengthening private sector participation:    Some improvement in the
capabilities of the local contracting industry has been achieved as a result of the
initial joint venture arrangemnents, and through the use of local consultants and
contractors for bridge, seawall, and sealing works in the final phase. The market
however is thin and requires strengthening in contract procedures and
enforcement, and resources.
(c)   Equipment: The procuremenlt of equipment focused on restoring PWD capacity
for emergency response, for specialized periodic maintenance activities which
were not available in the local private sector, and for strengthening road and
traffic safety. As the business processes of PWD evolve, some of the assets and
activities are likely to transfe]r to the private sector in the future.
(d)   Pilot road safety program:  In response to safety concerns on the project-
improved roads, PWD and the Transport Control Board (TCB) conducted a pilot



-6 -
study in 1996 and a safety action program in the final phase. Due to rising
motorization and higher road speeds, the fatality rate had risen to over 20 per
100,000 population, more than double the rates in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji
(and 15-20 times higher on the basis of vehicle fleet). Half the fatalities were
pedestrians and of those 70% were children. By the close of the project, the
fatality rate had steadied and the incidence of child fatalities had been halved. The
program  also identified black-spots which form the basis of future PWD
corrective measures.
18.   PND Institutional Strengthening Study. Phase I of the Institutional Strengthening
Study, which did not begin until 1995, acted as a stimulus for PWD and the Treasury to seriously
consider the reform or restructuring of PWD. Conducted with a substantiaily participatory
approach, the study recommended PWD to move towards a statutory authority status, with
increasing private sector participation. This generated active discussion in Government in
relation to the GoS Public Sector reform program, and resulted in a decision to adopt a
progressive approach, deferring the discussion on statuary authority status until PWD had
achieved satisfactory financial management. Follow-up of the study was to have been funded by
the co-financier AIDAB (now AusAID), but after a change in AIDAB priorities in 1995
precluded financing, a second phase of the study was financed by the Project in 1996. The
second phase, with a strong participatory approach, prepared a detailed plan for progressive out-
sourcing, privatization and right sizing of the organization. With strong ownership by PWD, the
plan served as a key focus for the Government's request for subsequent IDA assistance, which
has resulted in the preparation of the Infrastructure Asset Management Project.
19.   Audit. Audits were consistently overdue in the early part of the project. The backlog of
overdue audits for this and other IDA projects was cleared in 1995 through the use of
independent auditors and additional effort by the office of the Auditor General. Further use of
independent auditors was made in 1996-97 to complete other IDA projects. The project accounts
were also converted to a new transparent format in 1997. There were no overdue audits at
closing, and the 1997 audit is due by September 30, 1998.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.   Factors outside the government control. Cyclone Val caused extensive infrastructure
damage just 22 months after Cyclone Ofa had struck, when little progress had been made in the
main road restoration works. IDA responded quickly with a supplemental credit to cover the
additional rehabilitation of the subsequent damage and redesign of works. The erosion of beach
and ground levels and damage to the existing pavement required re-survey of the ground levels
to enable a re-design on site. This delayed implementation and caused cost increases. The
appreciation of the SDR increased the local funds available by 27%.
21.   Factors Subject to Government Control.  The main positive factor was the
government's strong coordinated response to the emergency, restoring transport routes and
services in critical areas, commencing immediately after each cyclone. During the project, the



- 7-
government provided adequate resources for road maintenance and generally exceeded the
covenant under the Credit. Landowner disruptions were a significant cause of delay and cost
escalation - numerous land-owners sought compensation (largely rent-seeking) and more than 50
separate instances of land-owner interventions were recorded, adding some WS$1.0 million to
the cost of EC1. These were resolved through liaison committees, minor realignments and
undertaking small works in the local communities for public relations. However, the light
enforcement of contract provisions and of statutory right-of-way entitlement by GoS weakened
dealings with the landowners. The project manager position was crucial to facilitating progress
on the project and communication between contract staff and government officials. The
assignment of the role to successive PWD staff/secondees from 1995-98 was not fully effective
particularly in regard to reporting.
D. Project Sustainability
22.    None of the project components is revenue-earning, so sustainability of the physical
investments rests on the performance and maintenance of the completed works. In the past,
maintenance has been neglected but during the project execution the government fulfilled the
covenant on providing adequate maintenance budgets. However, in a fragile small economy such as
Samoa's which depends on subsistence agriculture and remittances, a shift in public revenues could
easily affect resource allocations for maintenance. Nevertheless, the introduction of a performance-
output based budgeting system by Treasury in 1996, and the proposal to introduce infrastructure
asset management under future assistance, make it highly likely that adequate maintenance will be
sustained in the future. The adoption of geometric standards of construction for 60 kmph design
speed and 6m road width provide satisfactory levels of service for a 20-year period when supported
by an adequate safety program. In regard to natural hazards, the seawall protection works have a
design capacity, confirmed by a completion assessment, for at least a 10-year cyclone event with
minimal structural damage and would provide temporary protection for more severe events. While
cyclones Ofa and Val were 50-and 100-year events respectively, the design approach adopted soft
beach replenishment solutions as an environmentally sustainable objective and limited hard rockwall
solutions to fewer vulnerable sites. The recent construction of other barriers with still lower capacity
(not under the Project) may give rise to a misplaced sense of security. Consequently, a strategic
approach to assessing all coastal hazard levels is being proposed under the successor project, which
will define more precisely the sustainability of the Project-assisted and other coastal protection
works.
23.   Institutional sustainability will continue to have moderate risk while PWD remains short-
staffed with professional skills, and under-resourced financially. However, the modest progress
made in enabling the local contracting industry for road construction, and the new orientation of
PWD towards a business-oriented institution, able to attract qualified staff to manage the planning
and contracting out, is likely to enhance sustainability. It is likely that further progress will be made
towards private delivery of services over the medium term. The proposed Infrastructure Asset
Management Project, which is being designed to build on the achievement and to consolidate the
reforms and efficiency gains introduced under the project, will further contribute to sustainability.



-8 -
E. Bank Performance
24.   Identification, Preparation and Appraisal. Bank response to the emergency situation
facing Samoa following the Cyclones was highly satisfactory. Every effort was made to expedite
the processing of the credit effectiveness. The process from identification to Board presentation
took about three months. Since credit effectiveness which was conditional on the employment of
a project manager took more than two months, the Bank accepted the appointment of an interim
project manager and the credit became effective on August 23, 1990. Meanwhile, the GoS was
supported in the extraordinary maintenance work and preparation through retroactive financing.
The Bank was extremely flexible and very responsive, given the emergency situation.
25.   Supervision.  IDA  performance during implementation was highly satisfactory.
Supervision was adequate, well-qualified and informative. A strong professional relationship
was developed by the Bank with PWD and Treasury management. GoS appreciated the
responsiveness of IDA staff to build on institutional and sustainability objectives with the design
of the final program. The extensive dialogue within GoS and between GoS, IDA staff and
AusAID on the Institutional Strengthening Study has helped the borrower to consider reform
options in depth and to assume ownership of the reform process for better infrastructure asset
management in the future.
F. Borrower Performance
26.   Preparation. GoS performance during preparation was generally highly satisfactory.
The government responses after the Cyclones were prompt. It immediately prepared an
assessment of the extent of the damage and requested assistance of the donor community. The
enormous task of cleanup and restoration of services to critical areas also began immediately
after each cyclone. Planning and preparation for the rehabilitation of the damaged infrastructure
started immediately. Some delays were experienced in processing the appointment of a project
manager, and this delayed effectiveness of the Credit (this was understandable in the face of the
enormous difficulties it was facing in the initial months of the Cyclone Ofa).
27.   Implementation. Overall, the borrower performance in implementation was satisfactory.
The PWD, assisted by project consultants, carried out a heavy workload on the reconstruction
work. Most of the original program financed by the credit was completed on time and within
budget. However, since mid-1994, the Department of Public Works has lost a number of key
people - the chief civil engineer, consultant engineer, design engineer, mechanical plant manager,
and stores supervisor have all left the Government as many of them were supplied under overseas
staffing assistance schemes. This left very few senior qualified people in the PWD with the
experience and skills to manage the program effectively. Some crucial gaps in the existing
management structure contributed to the successive extensions of the credit closing date. Long
delays in appointing a project manager after the end of the AIDAB program hindered project
reporting and led to delays in implementation and monitoring of the accounts.



9-
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.   Overall, the outcome of the project is assessed as satisfactory. The main road network is
now substantially in good condition and to an appropriate standard, with enhanced protection
that has reduced the risk of transport disruption to a low level for 20-year weather-related events.
Substantive progress has been made on social and institutional sustainability through mitigating
associated road hazards with road safety programs, strengthening public works, physical
resources for maintenance, and fleet management. A platform for the reform of public works has
also been established through the Institutional Strengthening Study which has served as a focal
point of dialogue to heighten the sense of government ownership of the road asset management
program. While specific rates of economic return are not calculated for an emergency project,
the prior feasibility studies showed subproject returns in excess of 35%. At a sector level, the
rise in annual earnings in the tourism sector alone since the cyclones already exceeds the project
cost (Table 9).
H. Future Operations
29.   The roads restored under the Credit will continue to be managed and maintained by
PWD. Under the ongoing PWD institutional reform program, a greater share of the maintenance
and rehabilitation works will utilize private sector consultants and contractors. Through the
proposed infrastructure asset management system in PWD and through the Treasury-monitored
performance-budgeting, outputs and peiformance will be carefully managed.
I. Key Lessons Learned
30.   The project implementation experience confirmed that the policies set out in OD 8.50 for
emergency projects, which were followved in project design, were appropriate and resulted in a
satisfactory accomplishment of the project objectives. The most important lessons of this project
include:
(a)   The infrastructure sector is a crucial link determining the country's ability to
respond to high risk natural shocks.  Ensuring appropriate standards and
sustainable management of infrastructure are thus important priorities for the
Government, and warrants continued engagement of IDA in the sector with these
objectives.
(b)   The contribution to institutional strengthening under the project proved more than
incidental to the emergency objective. Through strengthening the dialogue and
addressing the management and delivery of infrastructure services, institutional
solutions were examined and identified that would increase the reliability of
existing infrastructure and strengthen the resilience of agency to cope with natural



- 10-
shocks. It provided a basis for improving business processes and restructuring,
consistent with the Government's public sector reform policies and objectives.
(c)    The most appropriate framework for effective participation of the private sector in
the provision of infrastructure services needs to be found for Samoa. The thin
market and lack of prior experience limited the effectiveness of competitive
procurement at the outset of the project and contributed to the initial
implementation delays. The selective use of joint-venture arrangements, the use'
of method specifications and small-to-moderate package sizes, standardization
and facilitation of procurement procedures, and careful detailing of financial
requirements need to tailored so as to develop the enabling environment further
for national and regional firms, building on the success gained in the latter stages
of the project; and
(d)   The protection of infrastructure in coastal areas involves a range of "hard" and
"soft" solutions which need to be designed to harmonize with coastal processes
and with social and cultural preferences. Hard solutions can be deceptive and
environmentally intrusive so need to be applied selectively and appropriately with
rigorous analysis. More attention is warranted for appropriate designs and use of
"soft" solutions, for example beach replenishment, submerged breakwaters, etc.
There is therefore, a need to assess and manage coastal hazards more strategically,
and to involve the communities and landowners in reaching comprehensive and
cost-effective solutions which are also socially and environmentally sustainable.



GOVE,RNMENT OF SAMOA
Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2132-WSO)
IMPLEMENTrATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                  0                                 El                X
Sector policies                         1                g                El                X
Financial objectives                                     El               E                 X
Institutional development               I]               X                                  El
Physical objectives                     X                EJ               E                 E
Poverty reduction                       f]               E                E                 X
Gender concerns                                                                             x
Other social objectives                 []               E                E                 X
Environmental objectives                [                X                                  El
Public sector management                                 X                Cl                El
Private sector development              []               X                El                 l
Economic benefits                       X                E                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability             Likely          Unlikely         Uncertain
'E                                El
C. Bank Performance                   Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                          X                El               El
Preparation assistance                  X                E                E
Appraisal                               X                E                E
Supervision                             X                E                E
D. Borrower Performance               Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                             []               x                [1
Implementation                           ]               X                El
Covenant compliance                                      X                E
Operation (if applicable)               []               El 
E. Assessment of outcome              Highly                                              Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El               X                El               El



- 12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Credit Title                        Purpose                   Year of         Status
approval
Preceding Operations:
Cr. 535-WSO First Highway  To provide for upgrading and sealing of the East  1975  completed in 1980.
Project                   Coast road and the Central Cross Island road,
both of Upolu.
Cr. 951 -WSO Agricultural   Road Component, to seal the Southern Coast   1979  completed in 1983
Development Project       Savai'i road.
Cr. 1657-WSO Multi-       To strengthen and diversify the economic base,  1986  Completed ICR
Project                   enhance the generation of new economic               1996 No. 15742
activities, and create new employment
opportunities.
Cr. 1781-WSO              To support Government in Developing         1987/93  Completed PCR
Afulilo Hydroelectric    indigenous renewable energy sources                   1995
No. 15247
Cr. 2034-WSO              To upgrade the telecommunication network &     1989  closed 1994
Telecommunication         build basis for future expansion etc.
Following Operations:
WS-PE-52293 Infrastructure  To ensure safe, reliable and efficient operation  1999  Under preparation
Asset Management Project   of key transport infrastructure assets; to improve
the physical and financial management of
infrastructure assets; support public sector
reform.



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned                       Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   February 1990                      February 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   March 1992                         March 1992
Preparation
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   March 1990                         March 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   September 1992                     March 1992
Appraisal
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   March 1990                         March 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   September 1992                     September/October 1992
Negotiations
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   June 1'990                         April 24, 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   December 1992                      January 28, 1993
Board presentations
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   June 1990, May 1990               May 17, 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   February 1993                      March 1, 1993
Signing
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   May 1990                           May 25, 1990
Cr.2132-WSO- 1                  N/A                                May 26, 1993
Effectiveness
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   N/A                                August23, 1990
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   March 1993                         February 4, 1994
Project completion
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   June 30, 1994                      December 31, 1997
Cr.2132-WSO-1                   June 30, 1994                      December 31, 1997
Loan closing
Cr.2132-WSO-0                   December 31, 1994                  December 31, 97
Cr.2132-WSO- 1                  Decem ber 31, 1995                 December 31, 97
* Second Highway Project Identification was in Process. The Identification mission took place on Nov.
18-25, 1989.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
| FY9]*| FY92 |FY93   |FY94  |FY95  | F96   | F97    |FY98
Appraisal estimate
Cr. 2132--0                          3.00    8.00    13.00   14.00
Cr. 2132-- 0 &I (Formally Revised)   2.34    6.78    10.48   13.96   16.50   17.64    18.67   18.67
Actual Cr. 2132--0 &1                 2.38    6.79    10.21   15.30   16.55   17.05    17.86   18.84
Actual as % of estimate                102    100        97     110     100       97       96      101
Date of final disbursement                                                                        6/30
* The Government Changed its fiscal year in l991 from January 1, December 31/ to July 1- June 30.



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A: Implementation Timetables
Key implementation indices                        Starting date               Completion Date
Planned       Actual         Planned        Actual
I. Institutional Objectives
A. Overseas training
a. Institutional                          -              11/95         -               12/95
b. Safety                                 -              12/96         -               12/96
B. Institutional Strengthening Study
a. Phase I                                01/91          05/95          12/91          11/95
b. Phase II                               04/96          10/96         06/96           12/96
II. Physical Objectives
A. Road Rehabilitation
1. Saleloga-Puapua (SR2)
a) Design LICB and contract award         03/90          03/90         06/90           06/90
b) Construction                           08/90          05/91         08/91           02/93*
,................  .............................................................................................................................................................................. ......................................
2. Sataua-Asau (SR3)
a) Design LICB and contract award         05/90          07/90         07/90
b) Construction                           08/90          05/91         08/91           04/93*
Moataa-Saluafata (EC I)
a) Selection of Cons.                     03/90          04/90         05/90           06/90
b) Design LICB and contract award         05/90          11/90         08/90           03/91
c) Construction                           10/90          07/91         09/92           09/93*
4. Coastal Protection II
a' Faga-Puapua                            07/95                         10/95
b. Salailua-Satuiatua-Falelima            07/95                         10/95
c. Manase-Sasina                          10/95                        01/96
d. Solosolo                               10/95          10/95         01/96
e. Laulii-Saluafata                       10/95                        01/96
5. Bridge Replacement (including design)
a. Laulii                                 07/95          09/95          12/95          11/96
b. Lotofaga-Uta                           03/96          02/96          06/96          12/96
c. Salesatele                             07/95          08/95         09/96           12/97
6. Minor works
a. Apia footpaths                         -              12/95         -               10/97
b. Linemarking                            08/96          08/96          12/96          12/97
c. Road Safety works                      -              10/96         -               12/97
7. Resealing
a. ECI                                    07/95          09/95          12/95          12/96
b. Savai'i Coast Road                     10/95          11/97         03/96           12/97
B. Emergency Maintenance
a) Apia Roads and Foreshore               03/90          04/90          12/90          10/90
b) North Savai'i Road                     04/90          04/90          11/90          12/90
c) East Coast Road Upolu                  03/90          03/90          12/90          08/91
d) Plant at Access Roads                  03/90          03/90         07/91           10/90
C. Equipment
a. Lot 1                                  06/94          -              12/94          10/95
b. Lot2                                                                 12/96          12/97
* Maintenance period extended 12 months after the construction completion date.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
B: Physical Indicators
Planned                       Actual
Civil Works
East Coast Road, EC1                           19.4                       19.5
Savai'i Coast Road, SR2                        21.5                       21.5
Savai'i Coast Road, SR3                        8.75                       7.67
Road Resealing
ECI                                            19.5                       19.5
Savai'i Coast Road, SR                         20.0                       20.0
Bridge Replacement
Salesatele                                    9.310                       9.310
Lolofaga-Uta                                 17.200                       17.200
Laulii                                       20.196                       20.196
Seawall
Faga-Puapua                                   1,400                       1,468 (9 seg.)
Salailua-Falelima                             1,031                       1,051 (9 seg.)
Manase-Puapua                                   320                       316 (3 seg.)
Solosolo                                        630                       621 (I seg.)
Laulii & Saluafata                              300                       400 (2 seg.)
Footpaths
Beach Road/Apia Park                          3,600                       4,100
Fugalei/Saleufi/Vaca                          2,700                       1,925
Busbays                                             6                       44
Linemarking
Upolu                                          19.5                       50
Savai'i                                                                   30
Table 6: Key lndicators for Project Operation
Key implementation indices                  Appraisal target         Actual/budgeted
ANNUAL MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURE
1991/92                                     US$0.9 million
1992/93                                     US$1.2 million
1993/94                                     US$1.5 million
1994/95                                     US$1.5 (real terms)      WS$4,472,809
1995/96                                     US$1.5 (real terms)      WS$6,044,100 (budgeted)
1996/97                                     US$1.5 (real terms)      WS$ 3,784,209
1997/98                                     US$1.5 (real terms)      WS$4,000,000 (budgeted)



- 16-
Table 7: Studies, Technical Assistance & Training Included in Project
Study          Propose as defined at
appraisal/redefined     Status      Impact of Study
1. Design:     Detailed design for east   Completed   Designed was the basis for the rehabilitation
Savai'i North   and north cost of Savai'i          of the road sections.
& East (95 km   and the east coast road of
& Upolu East   Upolu road
(19.6 km)
2. Training    a) Technical Training   Completed   Messrs. Karapeta Perelini (Ast. Director)
and Matini Lateru Tanielu (Civil Engineer)
in 1995 to Australia on asphalt surfacing
and contact administration
b) Institutional Reform  Completed   Mr. L.Isikuki Punivalu (Director) in Nov-
Dec. 1995 visiting road agencies
undergoing reform west USA, .
c) Road Safety         Completed   Mr. Paul Philips visit Fiji and Australia in
December 1996 to inspect the road safety
initiatives, traffic calming, roadmarking and
pedestrian facilities.
d) Institutional Study  deferred to   Mr. Luagalau L. Kamu (Minister) and Mr.
Tour                    1998 under  L.Isikuki Punivalu (Director) to visit road
other       agencies in the region on institutional
funding     reforms of the type contemplated for Samoa
'when the PWD reforrn consultations had
made more progress.
t 3. Ins tituional St engthenn g Study                                                    l
Pihase I     To prepare a            Completed.  The Institutional Study was endorsed by
recommendation on the               Cabinet Decision FK ((6)11-27,1996.
direction of reform
desired for PWD.
Phase 11     To address issues arising   Completed   Phase II of the study was completed in
from the Phase I Study              December 1996, with the issue of two
and providing additional            reports: Institutional Strengthening Study:
input for specific plan for         Draft Report: Nov. 1996 and Project
introducing reform of the           description and scheduling: Draft report:
existing organization and           Dec. 1996. The key objectives of the reform
operations of PWD.                  were agreed by the government. The
government would prepare action plan in
the context of the Proposed Infrastructure
Asset Management Project
(WS-PE-52293).
4. Technical    Audit service          Completed   The .996 project financial statement
Assistance                                         delivered by the due date as agreed in the
previous mission.



-17-
Table 8A: Summary of Project Costs (US$ million)
1990 Appraisal Estimate    1992 Revised Estimate /a    1997 Latest Estimates /c
Item                    Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
cost    cost              cost   cost      cost     cost   cost      cost
A. Civil Works -                         .
(i) Extraordinary     0. 0.43     0.53    0.96   0.16      0.21     0.37   0.18  0.18      0.36
Maintenance                                        I
(ii) Road rehabilitation  3.58    8.36   11.94   3.18    12.06    15.24   4.21  14.60    18.81
B. Equipment               0.05     0.89    0.94   0.07       1.50     1.57   0.00  1.43      1.43
C. Consultants and         0.63     1.26     1.89   0.99     2.53      3.52    1.73  3.55     5.28
Technical Assistance                                                                                l
D. Project Manager/b       0.10     0.40    0.50   0.08      0.30      0.38   0.15  0.23      0.38
E. Overseas Training          -     0.03    0.03       -      0.05     0.05    0.00  0.08     0.08
F. Independent Audit          -        -        -      -      0.10     0.10    0.00  0.07     0.07
G. Total Costl/            4.79     1.47   16.26   4.48    16.75    21.23    6.27  20.14    26.41
/a Source: Supplemental Credit estimate
/b Project manager was financed by AusAID.
/c As at April, 1998



-18-
Table 8A2: Summary of Project Costs (WS$ million)
1997 Latest estimates
1990 Appraisal estimate   1992 Revised estimate /a
Item                     Local   Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   Total
cost    cost            cost   cost      cost   cost   cost      cost
A. Civil Works
(i) Extraordinary        0.99      1.21   2.20   0.38     0.48    0.86   0.43     0.43    0.86
Maintenance
(ii) Road rehabilitation  6.12    14.28  20.40   6.70    26.60   33.30   4.66    43.13   47.79
B. Equipment                0.10     1.90   2.00   0.15      3.14    3.29   0.01     3.69   3.70
C. Consultants and          1.15     2.37   3.52   2.33     5.93    8.26   2.92     10.50   13.42
Technical Assistance                                                                             l
D. Project Manager/b        0.20     0.80    1.0  0.18       0.69    0.87   0.18     0.59   0.77
E. Overseas Training        0.01     0.06   0.07      -     0.12    0.12   0.00      0.19   0.19
F. Independent Audit           -        -      -      -     0.10    0.10   0.00      0.19    0.19
Total Base Cost          8.57    20.62  29.19   9.74    37.21   46.95
Physical Contingencies    1.67   3.88   5.55   0.46      1.07    1.53
Price Contingencies     0.77      1.89   2.66   0.29     0.92    1.21    =      =       =
G. Total Costl/            11.01    26.39  37.40  10.49    39.20   49.48   8.02    58.14  66.16
/a US$1 = WS$2.3 for extended contracts. US$1 = WS$2.45 for completed contracts.
/b Project manager was financed by AusAID.



-19-
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ million)
1990 Appraisal estimate     1992 Revised estimate/i    Actual or latest estimates
Sources         Local    Foreig   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
n
Goverm-nent         1.76        -    1.76      1.75         -      1.75  6.12     0.11      6.23
AIDAB               0.10     0.40     0.50    0.080      0.30      0.38  0.15     0.23      0.38
IDA                 2.93    11.07    14.00     2.65     16.45     19.10  0.00     19.80     19.80
Total               4.79    11.47    16.26      4.4    16.75     21.23  6.27      20.14     26.41
/1 AIDAB had agreed in principle to finance the cost of the project manager. The price contingency of 25% for road
rehabilitation and 10% for consultants and manager are included in the respective estimates. Total also reflects taxes
and duties estimated at US$0.70 million for 1990 appraisal and US$0.88 million for 1992 estimates.



-20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Beneflts*
A: Direct Beneficiaries of the Rehabilitation of SR2, R5, &EC1
Same
Place of  Place of
Usual    Residence Mobility
Villages Male  Female Total   Residence in 5 years Rate
Savai'i Island
Salelologa-Puapua (SR2, 22km)
Faasaleleaga District I               15  3110    2857    5967       4756      2199    63%
Faasaleleaga District II              11   1566    1432    2998      2523       1146    62%
Faasaleleaga District III              7   1334    1178    2512      2168       989    61%
Faasaleleaga District IV               3    786     738    1524      1358       631     59%
Faasaleleaga District                 36   6796    6205   13001     10805      4965    62%
Total Savai'i                        83  23716   21334   45050
% of Population Served              43%    29%     29%     29%
Sataua-Asau (SR3, 9 km)
Vaisigano East                         4   1449    1259    2708      2359      1245     54%
Vaisigano West                         3    935     798    1733       1282      731     58%
Subtotal                               7   2384    2057    4441      3641      1976    56%
Total Savai'i                         83  23716   21334   45050
% of Population Served               8%    10%     10%      10%
Total % of Villages & Pop. Served   52%    39%     39%     39%
% of Project Roads to Total Length
of Savai'i Road Network                                    17%
Upolo Island
Moataa-Saluafata (EC1, 19.6 km)
Viamauga East                          4   2535    2313    4848      3676      1522    69%
Vaimauga West                         51  13156   12219   25375     19819      8049    68%
Anoamaa West                           8  2261    2025    4286       3701      3520     18%
Subtotal                              63  17952   16557  34509      27196    13091    62%
Upolu                                240  60885   55363  116248
% of Population Served              26%    29%     30%     30%
% of Project Roads to Total Length
of Savai'i Road Network                                    10%__
Source: Mission estimates based on 1991 Census of Population and Housing,
Department of Statistics, GS, APIA.
* Based on 1989 feasibility study ERR for Savai'i North (Asua - Samalae) was estimated at 37.6%.
However, no formal economic estimate was done for the road sections rehabilitated by the IDA Credit. The
President based on the above feasibility estimated the ERR to be well in excess of 35%. Since the main
traffic to Savai'i is from Upolo via the ferry boat to Salelologa the traffic between Salelologa-Puapua
(SR2) represents the highest possible on Savai'i Island.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
B: Samoa Visitors Arrivals & Earnings
1989    1991     1992     1993        1994       1995    1996
Summary/Year
American Samoa                         19067    9665    11869    14518      21482       23817   24138
New Zealand                            13299    8362    7879      9252       16857      17709   20617
Australia                               7573    6044    4158       5181       6796       6816    7789
United Satates of America               5015    4247    4068       5704       7832       6202    8018
Other Pacific Islands                  4620    4223    3267       4735        4927       4284    4692
Other European Countries                1784    1354     1354      1532       1942       3017    2006
Germany                                 1358    1685     1827    2672         2472       2696    1690
Other Countries                         1318    2503     1649      1304       2238       1523    1670
United Kingdom                           471     447      573       871        928       1238    1103
Japan                                      -    553       571       878       1016        836    1016
Canada                                   455     331      316      426         599        254      416
Total Visitors                        54960   39414   37531   47073          67089      68392   73155
100%     72%      68%      86%        122%       124%    133%
Purpose
Holidays                                 NA     41%      37%       18%        33%        33%      30%
VFR                                      NA      19%     24%       56%        35%        40%      36%
Business                                 NA      12%      16%       9%        11%         11%     12%
others                                   NA     28%      23%       17%        21%         16%     22%
Total                                    NA    100%      100%     100%       100%        100%
Tourism Earnings (WS$ in Million)        NA      38.3     39.5     50.4       83.7        86.6    99.3
GDP (WS$ in Million)                           274.1    295.1    331.5       347.1       383.1   431.5
% (Earnings from visitors/GDP)                  14%      13%      15%         24%        23%      23%,
Note: US$1 = WS$2.5
No official estimate of GDP. Data presented here are estimates
Source: Samoa Visitors Bureau, Nov. 1997



-22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Cove   Present   Original    Revised     Description                    Comments
nant   status    fulfillment  fulfillment   of
type              date       date         Covenant
Art. 4.01         CD        Budget                  Maintain or cause to be        Special
(c) (i)                     year                    maintained records and accounts  allocation was
to reflect in accordance with  done under the
sound accounting practices and    revised loan.
operations, etc.
Art. 4.02   7     C         Budget                  Allocate annually appropriate  Complied.
year                    amounts for routine road
maintenance as agreed with the
IDA
C= Compiled                     NC = Not complied With
CD = Complied after delay       NYD = not yet due
CP = Complied with Partially
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Description and comment on lack of compliance
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Operation manual/ Statements OD or OP/BP
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                                        Actual
Staff week                       US$ "000
Through effectiveness                          14.3                             44.5
Supervision                                   72.0                             225.0
completion                                     6.0                              11.2
Total                                          92.3                            280.7



-23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project   Month  Number   SW    Specialized   IP   DO   Types of problems
cycle             /        of         in    staff skills
l_______________ year    persons   field  represented
Identification    Nov.    2                  Ec, ('CO
(for Second        1989
Highway Project)
Appraisal         Mar.    2                  E, HE                                                           l
l ______________   1990   1
Board approval    July,    1                 HE             I   1    Credit agreement scheduled to be
to effectiveness    1990                                               effective on 08/23/90).
Supervision I     Oct.     1            -    HE             1    1    -start up difficulties due to in experience
1990                                                of the PWD staff.
- Treasury converted US$730,000
l______________                                   _______              million into Tala inadvertently.
Supervision II    Mar.    1                  HE             1    1    ICB - administration difficulties.
l_______________  1991                  _
Supervision III    Aug.    1                 HE             2    1    Difficulties in price negotiation with
l______________ 1991                 _                                 Cardo & Davis.
Supervision IV    Mar.    1            1.0    HE            2    1    Project implementation delayed by
1992                                                Cyclone VAL which struck WS on Dec.
6-9, 1991; assessment of damage carried
out. Audit account delayed.
Supervision V     Oct.     1          3.0    HE             2    1    Appraisal and supervision mission.
1992                                                Project Manger resigned. New Project
Manager to be appointed by January
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   19 9 3.
Supervision V     Apr.    1                  HE             2    1    Equipment procurement and
_______________  1993                                                  Institutional study have yet to start.
Supervision VI    Apr.    1                  HE                        Institutional Study invitation cleared by
l____________ 1994                                                     IDA, Apr. 1994.
Supervision VII   Nov.    1            1.1    HE            S   HS   Audit, training visit and progress to be
1995                                                submitted.
Supervision VIII   Aug.    4          2.45   HE, TE, FA,  S    S    Delay in bridge works may require
1996                      IS                        project extension.
Supervision IX    May      2          2.6    HE (2)         S    S     Procurement processing at Cabinet
1997                                                Level taking longer time.
Supervision X     Nov.    2           0.8    HE,TE          S    S     The remaining Overseas training.
ICR Mission       1997
Ec = Economist                  IS = Institutional Specialist
FA = Financial analyst          TE = Transport Economist
HE = Highway Engineer



2- 24 -
Appendix A
Page 1 of 7
GOVERNMENT OF SAMOA
EMERGENCY ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2132-0,1 - SO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTING MISSION
Aide Memoire
I. Background
1.    This aide-memoire summarizes the understandings and agreements reached between
the Government of Samoa and the World Bank ICR mission that visited Apia, Samoa, from
November 18 to 28, 1997 in accordance with the term of reference dated November 7, 1997.
The IDA's final supervision and implementation completion mission was led by William
Paterson, Task Team Leader and comprised Richard Croad (coastal protection specialist) and
Ephrem Asebe (transport economist) consultants.
2.    The main objectives were to: (a) provide advice and support to the PWD in the
preparation of its contribution to the ICR; (b) review with the implementing agencies, PWD
and the Treasury, respective assessment of the implementation experience and achievements
of project's objectives; (c) discuss plans for the operational phases of project, including the
selected performance indicators to monitor operations and development impact; (d) review
Bank's own assessment; (e) analyze the major risks to successful operation; and (f) re-
evaluate the expected project benefits and sustainability.
3.    The mission wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the Government of Samoa,
Mr. Epa Tuioti, Financial Secretary Department, and Mr. Isikuki Punivalu, Director of
Works, PWD and the respective staff for their hospitality and courtesies to the mission. The
conclusions and recommendations contained in this aide-memoire are those of the mission
and are subject to confirmation by World Bank Management.
4.    The Emergency Roads Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2132-0-SO) for SDR 10.9 million
(US$14.0 million equivalent) and a Supplementary Credit (Cr.21320-1-SO) for SDR 3.7
million (US$5.1 million equivalent) respectively were made by IDA to assist the Government
of Samoa in carrying out its Emergency Road Rehabilitation Program to alleviate the severe
disruption in the transport sector caused by the Cyclone Ofa (February 1-4, 1990) and
Cyclone Val (December 6-9, 1991), comprising rehabilitation of roads, coastal protection
works; strengthening the Department of Public Work's planning and management operations,
and undertaking independent audits.
5.    The Original Credit was signed on May 25, 1990 and declared effective on August
23, 1990. The Supplementary Credit signed on May 26, 1993 and became effective on



_-2 !> -                           Appendix A
Page 2 of 7
February 4, 1994. Both the Original and Supplementary Credits were scheduled to close on
December 31, 1994. The works under the original Credit were substantially completed by
early 1994. However, the need for time to prepare and undertake the final program envisaged
for the Supplementary Credit, and delays in the procurement of the important PWD
institutional study, led to GoS's first request for extension of the closing date to December
31, 1995. Staff changes and the vacuum left by the departure of the three expatriate engineer
manager staff of PWD in the mid-late 1994 and the termination of the Australian Staff
Assistance Program in October 1997, coupled with a protracted tendering and approval
process led to two further extensions. The Credits are now scheduled to close on December
31, 1997.
II. Status of Plroject at Completion
6.    The ICR mission inspected the civil[ works financed under the Credits in both Savai'i
and Upolu. The rehabilitation road works financed under the project has been fully
implemented as modified to meet the impact of the cyclone Val. The 19.2 km, Salelologa to
Puapua - Savai'i North Road Coast Road (SR2) reconstruction, commenced in May 1991,
and was completed in February 1993. The completion cost was estimated at ST$15.8
million. The rehabilitation of the 9.0 km Sataua to Asua Road (SR3) was commenced in
May 1991 and was completed in April 1993 at a total cost of ST$ 3.56 million. The
rehabilitation and resealing of the 19.2 km Moataa-Saluafata (EC I) road commenced in July
1991 and completed in September 1993 at a total cost of ST$16.8 million'. The constructed
road sections were found to be in good condition. However, it was evident from minor
deterioration that roads SR2 and SR3 would require resealing within 1-3 years (at an age of
6-8 years) and GoS was asked to program this in the operational plan for the project roads.
7.    The Coastal protection program under both the original Credit and Supplemental
Credit have been fully implemented. The seawalls at Solosolo Beach, Laulili and Sauafata
were constructed under the Supplemental Credit. The mission expert on coastal engineering
reviewed the status of coastal protection works with the following main findings:
(a)   Seawalls have been extensively constructed on Upolu and Savai'i as part of the IDA
Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project. Some areas, where beach nourishment was
originally planned, have now been replaced with rock seawalls after loss of the sand
through wave action generated by cyclone Val as construction was underway in 1991.
(b)   The seawalls and other coastal protection systems have been designed for a 1 in 10 year
event. Events of the magnitude of cyclones Ofa and Val, which represented 50 to 100
year return period events, can still be expected to inflict major damage to significant
portions of the seawalls and adjaceni: roads.
construction costs, cited here exclude supervision and design costs.



- 26 -
Appendix A
Page 3 of 7
(c)   Since completion, the seawalls and coastal defence systems have not yet been tested
under cyclone conditions except for the walls on SR2 which sustained the Cyclone Val
conditions. Although the standard of construction is generally reasonable, there are a
few sites where construction standards have been low (outside the project) and the walls
are showing some signs of deterioration under the action of normal storm seas.
(d)   Seawalls constructed by, or for, villages (including walls being constructed under the
PWD budget) invariably omit important details such as filters, toe scour protection.
Such walls will, in practice, provide a very low level of protection. There is probably a
public perception that such walls will protect the village from events the size of Ofa and
Val.
(e)   The cost of seawalls is relatively high and it is not necessarily cost effective to defend
the coastline with such structures where, because of geometric and material supply
constraints, seawalls may not provide effective protection from events with higher than
a 10 year return period. Alternative structural solutions to seawalls are available but
would need to be evaluated carefully in terms of cost and environmental impacts.
(f)   Soft solutions involving widening the beach through nourishment and maintaining and
restoring sand dunes are still appropriate solutions for coastal defence in Samoa.
However, the public perception of the effectiveness of beach nourishment is probably
low compared to seawalls.
(g)   Seawalls are normally unsuited to areas of passive erosion (i.e. areas of coast which are
progressively retreating over a long period of time). Under such circumstances the
seawall covers the beach and reduces the supply of sand which otherwise would
contribute to the sediment budget in the submerged part of the beach. In the long term
this may lead to undermining of the toe of the wall. However it is now recognised that
active erosion caused by turbulence due to wave action on the seawall, does not have a
detrimental effect on the overall beach profile. Isolated segments of wall with adjacent
areas of beach can trap sediment moving longshore and induce downdrift erosion if the
wall projects out from the line of the beach.
(h)   Any further construction of seawalls for coastal protection should only be undertaken in
the light of the lessons learned from this project, that is with full design and
consideration of alternatives, environmental impact assessment and supervision. The
construction of walls where they are inappropriate for protection or of inadequate
standard are likely to perform poorly, give a false sense of security and result in
additional and unnecessary environmental damage. The mission therefore advises that
further programs should not be funded by GoS unless they are undertaken within strict
and formal guidelines.
8.    Bridge works- Salesatele Bridge is under construction by a local contractor and is
progressing well. Construction is expected to be completed before the closing of the loan.



- 27 -                            Appendix A
Page 4 of 7
The other two bridges at Laulii and Lotofaga-Uta, designed under local consultancy services
and tendered under LCB, have been completed. The quality of construction is satisfactory.
9.    The footpath program has been substantially completed and is satisfactory. The
improvement in the footpath program is highly appreciated by the public in Apia and appears
to have high degree of public support.
10.   The Road Safety Program has won the support of community and is having impact on
reducing accident rate on school children. Under the program major black spots have been
identified and some improvements have been implemented. The portion of the program
scheduled under the Supplemental Credilt will be fully completed by the Closing Date.
11.   The PWD Institutional Strengtheining Study, Phase II, and the Implementation Plan
("Phase III") is being reviewed by the government. The study envisaged phased
implementation of the reforms in the PW'D, improving its performance and efficiency
through improved asset management and cost recovery while gradually moving to its new
role as manager of services. At the same time, the private sector will be strengthened and
new enterprises formed.
12.   As of October 31, 1997 ST$3.7 million (SDR1.01 million) is undisbursed, but the
full balance is committed for expenditures which will be made before the Closing Date of
December 31, 1997.
13. Summary Status at Completion: The original scope of the project was fully
implemented by the end of 1994, and the subsequent expanded program under the
Supplemental Credit, which also utilized an additional S$10 million accruing from
appreciation of the SDR, will be fully complete by the Closing Date of December 31, 1997,
following three one-year extensions.
III.  Views of the Borrower
14.   The Government expressed its apipreciation for the quick and timely response of the
International Development Association (IDA) to its request for assistance to carry out an
emergency rehabilitation program to alleviate the disruption in the transport sector following
Cyclone Ofa and later Cyclone Val. The Credit allowed the Government to undertake
extraordinary maintenance along the cyclone-affected coasts of both Upolu and Savai'i and
plantation access roads and made it possible for economic activities to resume right after the
cyclones. Subsequent rehabilitation of thle cyclone-damaged road infrastructure has helped
remove the transport constraints to economic recovery on a sustainable basis. The
Government also appreciates the flexibility that IDA has shown to meet GoS's changing
priorities through the expanded program that was made possible by the Supplemental Credit,
including IDA's willingness to extend thLe Credit three times to allow physical completion of
the program.



-  28 -
Appendix A
Page 5 of 7
15.   The PWD found the IDA supervision field missions to be informative and one that
served as a window of opportunity for enhancing the professional growth of the counterpart
staff by providing feedback that is valued. Both the PWD and Treasury staff viewed IDA
supervision staff easy to communicate and work with.
16.   The implementing agencies, Public Works Department and the Treasury, stated that
the project has had significant impact in the promotion of private sector participation and in
the transfer of technology to the domestic construction industry through the joint-venture
arrangement. As a result, local contractors have proven to be competitive and able to deliver
a reasonable quality and standard of works. The project has also helped to improve the
effectiveness of the public sector management. The exposure of four key personnel to good
practices in institutional reforms, road safety management and contract management, and
maintenance and operation management in New Zealand and Australia has had a visible
impact on the orientation of PWD. The general mood in PWD is forward looking and
appears to be spearheading the institutional reform along the line recommended by the
consultants financed under the project. A general optimism for establishment of a more lean
and more focused cost-effective department, capable of attracting and retaining skilled staff
while promoting the private sector, appears to be in the making. It is felt that a similar
exposure to staff dealing with the financial aspect of the project management in the Treasury
would have helped create a more effective public sector project management environment.
17.  In retrospect for a project of this size and the limited skilled staff in PWD, the
continuity of the project management unit during the period of implementation of the
Supplemental Credit would have helped. Also, the implementation experience revealed that
the government procurement process was sometimes slow and not responsive to achieve
timely execution of public works. The authorized spending limit of ST$20,000.00 for the
Public Works Department is considered too low to allow it to function smoothly.
18.   The Government has given priority in the next five years to health and education.
The PWD express its concern that consequently the road maintenance may suffer from
inadequate budgeting, and that this would seriously affect the sustainability of the road asset.
IV.  Views of the Bank Mission
19.   GoS's contribution to the ICR. A Government team consisting Mr. Taalogo Iosefa,
Assistant Director of PWD and Mr. Jerry Ah Kuoi - Senior Project Officer, Treasury, two
staff who have followed the project implementation the longest, were assigned to prepare the
Government's contribution to the ICR. The mission provided a copy of the ICR guidelines
and reminded the Government team that the government contribution to the ICR will be
attached unedited to the ICR, if less than ten page in length, and among other things, may
focus on:
a) An assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation
experience;



- 29 -
Appendix A
Page 6 of 7
b) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with speciad emphasis on lessons learned; and
c) an evaluation of the performance of IDA and the other co-financiers during the
evolution of the implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the cooperation
between the borrower, IDA, and the co-financier, with special emphasis the lesson learned.
20.   Economic Evaluation of the Road Rehabilitation Component. The mission requested
the Government to re-evaluate the economic returns of the roads rehabilitated under the
project. However, in the absence of the initernal capacity the IDA is willing to assist PWD,
provided PWD can make all needed data available to the transport economist. This will
include road traffic data, road roughness rneasure which PWD is planning to undertake in
early January 1998 and data related to vehicle operating data.
21.   Final cost of the project. According to the latest estimates the total project cost will
be ST$59.0 million (equivalent to SDR16.9 million at October 1997 values, or about 15%
increase overall) and the Credit (SDR14.6 million) is expected to be fully disbursed.
22.   The project staff showed dedication after the ending of the formal project
management in 1994, often taking multiple responsibilities. Many of the delays in
implementation were due to limited staff resources for planning and supervising project
implementation, and to the long procurement approval process.
23.   The PWD seeks priority in resource allocation to be given for the preservation of
existing infrastructure asset. However, as, the Government's priority over the coming five
year period shifts to health and education, PWD fears that sufficient budgetary resources may
not be forthcoming to maintain adequately the existing road asset. To mitigate this and
assure sustainability of its road assets, PWD is committed to institute a road asset
management system to help utilize the available resources more efficiently and effectively.
The ICR mission agreed with the overall assessment of the GoS representatives and urge the
Government to give due consideration in its budgetary allocation for the preservation of its
road assets.
VI. Project Operational Plan
24.   The mission reviewed the Public Works Department's 1997/98 approved budget, and
a proposal for the capital works program (1998-2004) covering mainly the rehabilitation of
roads and bridges. The budget specifies output performance for each type of asset
management activity. Given the prevailing general optimism and commitment of Public
Works Department, the sustainability of resources, both qualified staff and funds, will be the
main constraints. The mission requested specific provision for the resealing of the project
roads by the end of 1999.



-30 -                              Appendix A
Page 7 of 7
VII. Planned Schedule of ICR Preparation
25.  The mission has agreed with the GoS ICR Team on the attached schedule of
implementation. A word about availability of input data (vehicle traffic, vehicle operating
cost and road roughness) for the re-evaluation of the economic rate of return for the
rehabilitated works is in order. Delay in the procurement of the five traffic counters caused
the scheduled traffic count to be postponed in January 1996. PWD has now promised to
undertake the traffic count in early January 1998. Judged from the rapid growth in the
number of vehicles in Samoa since 1990 and the increase of the number tourists, of which
one in three is VFR, both goods and passenger traffic has increased but reliable data are not
available. The mission began to collect data for estimating savings in vehicle operating cost,
and PWD have agreed to complete the data collection.
ICR Preparation Schedule
Agreed Action                     Responsible Agency   Completion Date
Establish the team responsible for the   GoS ICR Team  November 26, 1997
drafting the government contribution
to the ICR
Undertake traffic count for the re-  Public Works     January 31, 1998
evaluation of the ERR of the project   Department
and make available data to IDA
Undertake road roughness measures    Public Works     January 31, 1998
Department
Complete the vehicle operating cost    GoS ICR Team   December 31, 1997
data for re-evaluation of ERR
Finalize the Operational Plan for the    GoS ICR Team  February 10, 1998
management of road asset and attached
the draft to the ICR.
Transmit the Government contribution  GoS             February 28, 1998
to the ICR
prepare the Draft ICR and send for    Task Manager    March 15, 1998
GoS and Co-financier reviews and
comments
Incorporate comments of GoS and Co- Task Manager      March 31, 1998
financier and finalize the Draft ICR
including their unedited contribution.
Seek final clearance of Draft ICR  Task Manger        April 1998.



- 31 -
Appendix B
Page 1 of 6
BORROWERS CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
EMERGENCY ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT, Cr 2132-WSO
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
l.    The Project main objectives were ito assist the Government of Samoa in carrying
out emergency works on roads, bridges, aad seawall programs to alleviate the severe
disruption that was caused by the two cyclones in 1990 and 1991. These were Cyclone
Ofa and Cyclone Val. The aim was to restore economic activities along cyclone affected
areas.
2.    The scope covered works on the following:
(a)   Extraordinary maintenance of mostly emergency work
(b)   The rehabilitation of some 50.6km of priority roads both on Upolu and
Savai'i.
(c)   The provision of technical and consulting services, as well as
(d)   The procurement of navigational aid and road maintenance equipment and,
(e)   Short Term Training
EVALUATION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES
3.    Extraordinary maintenance:
(a)    The disruptions to the coumtry infrastructures (roads, bridges, and sea
walls) were severe after the cyclones. Work had been done to restore this
transport link to the country immediately after the cyclones and to
provide the people of Samoa with access to various places. The
availability of funds to restore this transport link was very much welcome
as this was not allowed for in the local budget.
(b)    There were many coastal roads that were washed away after cyclone Ofa.
The main airport road was one of the roads that washed away. This road
was important to Samoa because it links the main town of Apia with the
only International Airport and also continue to the wharf where Savai'i
people catch the ferries. The restoration of this road was done under
extraordinary maintenance work. Parts of the East Coast road on Upolu



- 32 -
Appendix B
Page 2 of 6
Island did wash away after Cyclone Ofa and it took a week to restore
some vehicle access by the department on this road. The same problem
happened on the north coast road of Savai'i. Public Works restore vehicle
access after a week of hard work. There were several drainage problems
around the country which needed urgent attention at the time. Seawall
protection was necessary immediately after cyclones.
(c)    Most of these extraordinary maintenance were done by the department's
own work force. In addition to the department own equipment, required
hired equipment was used for these maintenance works. The department
also supervised all these work.
(d)    These examples and many others were made possible with the provision
of extraordinary maintenance. The provision of extraordinary
maintenance budget under the loan did assist the Government of Samoa
in carrying out emergency works and to alleviate disruption to the people
after the cyclones. This was very satisfactorily done.
Rehabilitation work
4.    The long rehabilitation program throughout the duration of the project was an
achievement. This was done using international consultants as designers and supervisors.
Overseas contractors were also procured to carry out construction works. Although there
were delays in the programs because of many reasons, however the project had made a
considerable impact to restore good transportation link. The roads that were restore and
upgraded in Savai'i (SR2 and SR3) were satisfactorily constructed and the performances
of these roads after four years since construction are still very good. The same goes for
the road in Upolu (EC 1). This road was done satisfactorily and is still performing well.
This road was resealed recently under the same project. The rehabilitation road works
overall were carried out satisfactorily. This was done through the procurement of
international consultants and contractors with the strong emphasis in joint ventures of
overseas and local consultant and contractors. This was one way of trying to develop the
private sector in Samoa. It contributed to restoring Samoa 's economic activities along
cyclone affected area.
The Provision of Providing Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
5.    The Project was successful in providing local and overseas consultants for design,
project management and supervision works. This was the same with construction works.
Good mixtures of overseas coritractors and local contractors were responsible for
providing technical services to Samoa. These services were well delivered.
In the beginning of the Project, there was a Project Manager that was provided by
AusAID for the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project. However the Public Works
Department later resumed this role. Although efforts were made to localize the position
within the country however there was not any support from the executing agency to



Appendix B
Page 3 of 6
establish this role. As a result, the department was forced to do this role part-time,
however it required a full time person to manage this project. We did not serve justice to
the project by providing a full time manager. The PWD did not have any available
technical staff to resume this role satisfaLctorily. There were too many other outputs that
required the department to fulfill under ihe local budget and local staff were fully
committed to that. The loan was extended twice because of the department over
commitment.
The studies that were done on the Institutional Strengthening of the Public Works
Department were very successful. This should provide the platform for the department
given a new direction on asset management instead of involving with the delivery of
services.
The procurement of navigational aids and road maintenance equipment
6.    These were successfully done and the Ministry of Transport fully on its
maintenance effort now in uses the navigational aids. Therefore, this activity was also
done satisfactorily under international competitive bidding process.
Short term training
7.    The management staff of the department did manage to take part in some short-
term training overseas. The Director attended a management course in Australia and this
course helped the Director to pave the vvay for reforms in the department. The trip
overseas to visit similar organizations that were undergoing similar reforms was also a
successful irip and was educational.
Other staffs that were attending technical courses under the project were all successful.
These were rare opportunities that were made available to the staff under this project and
were very appreciative of those opportunities.
Implementation Agency Experience of the Project
8.    Although at the beginning of this project, we had the benefit of sufficient
technical staff to manage the project ac1tivities. However, these technical staffs were later
unavailable to Public Works Department because the Australian and New Zealand
supplementation schemes were terminated. At the later part of this project, the few local
staffs that were left had to manage and complete the project by themselves. This was
never envisaging during the appraisal however it happened during the implementation of
this project. It would have been very helpful to the later stage of this project if further
help was available to the department to manage the project. Despite the lack of assistance
on the technical side, we manage to complete all tasks.



- 34                ~            Appendix B
Page 4 of 6
PROJECT ACTMITIES
Evaluation of Project Design
9.    The design of the original project had clear and realistic objectives focused on a
speedy recovery of the country's economy by restoring the highest priority road sections
that had been severely damaged or destroyed by the cyclones. This choice was based on
the recommendations of the Bank's appraisal mission based on their findings as well as
recommendations and assessments from the Government of Samoa. The rehabilitation of
the road network was considered extremely vital for the country's economic recovery, not
only for the resumption of normal transport movements between the two islands but
especially resuming and reviving normal economic activities which had been severely
affected.
The establishment of the supplementary credit reaffirmed the original objectives and had
an added objective of setting in motion a pilot road safety programr to address the road
safety issues arising out of the improved road conditions and revived economic activities.
The original project as well as the supplementary credit is considered substantially
successful in achieving its objectives as seen by the revival of the country's economy
despite the heavy demand on the country's overtaxed economy.
Evaluation of the Project Implementation
10.   The rehabilitation of emergency works under the extraordinary maintenance was
promptly responded to the rehabilitation of 50.6km of severely damaged priority road
sections both in Upolu and Savai'i were successful, meeting appropriate standards within
allocated budgets and time frames. The use of overseas consultants and contractors in
joint ventures with local consultants and contractors to undertake design, construction
and supervision not only achieved the implementation program but also strengthened the
local construction industry as well as the local engineering consultants from the exchange
of knowledge. The PWD however suffered more by taking on this enormous project and
being unable to obtain suitably qualified staff especially when the consultants left
although those who were involved with the project gained enormous experiences from it.
The project further strengthened the susceptibility of the road network under the
supplementary credit through various roads strengthening civil works, institutional
strengthening, and continual private sector development.
The investigation of the pilot road safety program has addressed the growing accident
problem by reduced traffic accident but more importantly has raised traffic safety
awareness and responsibility to a higher level no only in the general community but also
in the government. Subsequently this program has won the support of the community
and commitment from the government and other organizations directly involved with
road safety.



- 35 -
Appendix B
Page 5 of 6
The ongoing dialogue particularly within the PWD on the recommendations of Phases I
and II of the PWD Institutional Strengthening Study has raised a considerable sense of
ownership and has provided options as to the future of PWD activities and its employees.
Despite the extensions of the supplementary credit closing date, due to the insufficiency
of time to implement the supplementary credit, lack of support staff within the PWD and
misunderstanding between the Bank andl implementing agencies, the project
implementation substantially achieved its primary objectives by successfully completing
the various project components.
Evaluation of Operation Experience
Achievements
11.   Good cooperation and team-work by the Bank and the Government of Samoa has
resulted in the substantial achievement of the project's primary objectives.
After the devastating two cyclones, transportation around both islands was in a chaos and
the restoration of these severely damaged sectors was a priority on the country economic
recovery. A total of 50.6km of the washed out roads around the islands, two in Savai'i
and one in Upolu, we're reconstructed to set standards and specifications. The
supplemental credit had assisted in both periodic and routine maintenance of the main
artillery roads; sea walls were constructed at various parts of the islands to sustain the
road network. In addition, new bridges were built, as well as the introduction of a road
safety program for the first time. The last component of the project highlighted the need
for an institutional strengthening in government department as well as the development of
the private sector.
The road safety campaign and awareness program was a success in terms of the public
support. Because of this, the number of fatal accidents has reduced tremendously. Under
the Institutional Study, various recommendations were adapted by the PWD management
and have resulted in a sense of ownership and pave the way for further improvement.
The government through its annual budget has been advised to appropriate more funds in
the maintenance of the current transport infrastructure.
Evaluation of the Borrowers Own Performance
12.   The overall performance by the government was satisfactory. PWD personnel
were appointed as counterparts to assist in the management of the reconstruction process.
Most of the original program financed by the credit was completed on time and within
budget.
During the implementation stages, a full time AusAID financed Project Manager was
responsible for managing the project. This was during the time of international
competitive bidding for major construction works and also the procurement of



- 36
Appendix B
Page 6 of 6
maintenance equipment. This was successful done. At the later stage, a part time Project
Manager from within PWD staff was asked to oversee the remaining project activities.
PWD on one hand has only a few senior qualified people with the experience and skills in
management. The non-existence of a full time manager has therefore contributed to the
successive extensions of the credit closing date.
On the other hand, the PWD personnel engaged on the latter stage of the project have
gained invaluable experience in project management.
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
13.   The Bank had performed extremely well throughout the duration of this project.
The preparation of the loan after the cyclones was very responsive and the Bank appraisal
teams were mobilized as soon as the request was on hand.
During the project implementation, we found the Bank's staff and consultants been very
helpful and co-operative. They were responsive to the borrowers needs and at no stage
where things had been difficult of getting feedback and approval when they were
required. The staff at Public Works Department were very appreciative of this assistance
form the Bank and it created a good rapport between the Bank staff and the Implementing
Agency. The flexibility of the Bank and the good communication that was established
throughout this project was commendable and this was a tribute to the assistance that was
provided by the bank staff at all time.
Conclusion
14.   This was a highly successful project. The original aim of the credit was to provide
assistance to the Government of Samoa in carrying out emergency work after cyclones
was achieved. The performance of various contractors and consultants were satisfactorily.
The training and lessons learned by both the staff of Public Works Department and also
the knowledge's gain by the local contractors and consultants through joint ventures was
also an achievement. The responsiveness and the co-operation given by the Bank staff to
the borrower were commendable. The improved infrastructure Samoa now has will lead
to a new era of managing these assets. The PWD as being asset managers will required to
be more efficient and effective and through the investigations that was done in the
Institutional Strengthening Studies of PWD on this project should now set a platform to
look into more effective ways and means of delivering services. And perhaps the more
effective way to manage all these assets is to follow the new direction of government.
That is partnership with the private sector to deliver these services. The proposed
Infrastructure Assets Management Project from the World Bank is very much needed and
much welcome.



172'40'                                                   17220'                                                    172'00'                                                     17140'
Paiealupo                   '                          .   <~ )  \'                                                                       EMERGENCY ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT
0 S . Satua  'Auala ,                          '           Valipouli    \_   \\                                                                                  CURRENT PROJECT
Olr   Sama ae u l5e>                                                         -                PREVIOUS PROJECT    { CR - 535 WSO
01080                                                                       MAJOR ROADS            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CR* 1657 WSO
Aopo                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINOR ROADS
Neiafu (\    g                                           '      )   .         7           \        \  !                                ~                                -    RIVERS
Falelima                   Mt. SiGisili        , ff        '               \          Pu'apula                                                             PORTS
~\  1B58 m.                                                                                                       + '  *       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
O            TOWNS
-3x;,  '\  '   '   9   nFaga                        (i)          NATIONAL CAPITAL
13'40'                                              SAVAI'I                                                              , Sofotulafai                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                              13'40'-
Salailua                                                  j
- X )        j               ] Salelologa
Tago                                                                                        Fal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~oe.la
'    Np,,    Catalv ^   /-~~~~~~~.7au               t .
" - Taga                                 Tafua/ai   -     ~' .,                     Faleolo          \F
Airort                                                  APIA
17?0'                                                     172'20'                                                                                                                         S  '''5 R *r< <      tS-   000 
17I                                   .                    l                                                       Vaipapa           npa _              lima   '       tuleap u    Falefa Falls
.~~~~~~~~t Fi.aI .
CAROLINE               MARSHALL                                                                                                                                   Elevation 700
ISLANDS                 ISLANDS                              )l                                                                                                  Elvt'  750 m i  )  ,         8
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tiavea
U       SOLOMON                  KIRIBATI                                         14'00'                                                               ' p                                   Saleilua               Fal
-~ISLANDS                                                                                                                                                                             Solo ago
SAMOA
AMERICAN                                  This map  has been  prepared                                                                                                                      C
VANUATU-          FI)ti               SAMOA            TAHITI                  by The  WorldM  onkvme staff                                                               UPOLU                                                 Tpea :.
TONGA                                   ~~~~~~~~ ~~encloin   for the conenience
a   <.   TONGA  COOK ISLANDS                           of neade,o  and  is  for the
intermol usn of TheWorld Bank
\   NEW                                                                  Grnoup.The denominotions used
and  the  boundarien  nhnwn
AUSTRALIA     ~CALEDONIA                                                                    on this reado not imepI ono the-
AUSTRALIc                                                                                        part of rhe World Son  Group,-(  ,.!.
oz j~v~ so:llX   -m.-           ony judgment on the legalp                                                                                             M
sltots ot any ten'itory nr aa                                                                                          MILES          ______________                i
6  ...          Ut-k-:- V                  - endorsement or acceptonce                                                                                             M       01
;wKILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                              B      12 1-6
NEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
ZEA'AND                                                                                                                  172'D0'                                                    17t'40'
X                                       X1                                                                                                                I     .li



