Document of
te Vorld Dank
Report No.8936-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGM  OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
January 28, 1991
Population and Ruman Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
This document bas a restri¢ted distribution and a t be used by recipients caly in the performence of
'thir official duties. Its contents may not othervise be diaclosed without World Bank autborisation.
Thadouen~~iaa et~±t,dditibtonod a b  se  y e.p..solyi t.h pe _rac   .



KINODOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(As of October 1990)
Currency Unit - Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$ 1.00 - DH 7.9
DH 1.00 - US$ 0.13
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY 0F ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   - African Development Bank
ESRP  - Education Sector Reform Program (2664-MOR)
IEA   - International Association for the Evaluation of
Educational Achievement
MO£   - Ministry of Education
NAP   - National Assessment Program
PD    - Planning Directorate (MOEts)
Task HMiaaer: Catherine Kleynhoff (EMZPE); Division Chief: Andrew Rogerson (EM2PB); Director: Kemal Dervis
(EM2DR); Peer Rovi eer: Efleen Nkwanga fAf4PH)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KIRNGQD   0F MOROCCO                      Page 1 of 2
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF COQTEuTS
Page
LOAN  SUMMARY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
BASIC DATA SHEET  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iv
CHAPTER I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR: BACKGROUND AND ISSUES . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A. INTRODUCTION.                                                                    1
B.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   1
Introduction of a Basic Education Cycle  ... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   2
Teacher Training ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   3
Curriculum and Its Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Assessment and the Flow of Students  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
C.  MAJOR ISSUES IN UPPER BASIC EDUCATION .5.............. . S
Geographic and Gender Disparity in Access and Participation  . . . .   5
The Financing of Education ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   6
Quality, Efficiency and Teaching Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
D.  GOVERNMENT EDUCATION STRATEGY AND BANK LENDING . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
CHAPTER II -  THE RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT . . . . . . . . . 12
A.  OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE PROJECT  ... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
B.  IMPROVING BASIC EDUCATION ACCESS FOR DISADVANTAGED GROUPS  ... .            .    . 12
C.  INSTITUTIONAL ÏMD QUALITATIVE DEVELOPMENT  ... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Curricuium De.elopment and Implementation .  ........... . 14
Assessment and Evaluation  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Logistical Support ........................ . 16
Incremental Recurrent Cost ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
CHAPTER III - PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS  . . 17
Project Costs  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
Project Financing  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Management and Implementation ..................... . 19
Procurement .............................. . 21
Technical Assistance .......................... . 22
Status of Project Preparation  ....  .         .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Disbursements  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Special Account  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
Accounts and Audits  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
Benefits and Risks ....  .        .  .  .  .  .    . .......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
CHAPTER  IV - AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . .  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may flot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Page 2- of 2
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
~~~~~~~~~ES~~~~~~A
ANNEXES
1. Evolution of Gross Public School Enrollments by Level
and Gender and Evolution of Enrollment Rates by Level . . . . . . . . . 27
2. Weekly Program of General Upper Basic and
Socondary Education 1989-90 . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
3. Evolution of Recurrent and Investment Budgets for Education
1984-1990 .         .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
4. Evolution of Primary and Secondary Recurrent and Investment
Budgets and Unit Cost per Student   . ....... . ....                  30
5. Performance Indicators For Rural Middle Schools (Grades 7-9)   . . . . 31
6. World Bank Group Education and Training Lending to Morocco . . . . . . 32
7. The National Assessment Program (NAP)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
8. Evaluation of Factors affecting School Participation
in  Rural  Areas  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    38
SCHEDULES
1. Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
2. Implementation Schedule of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
CHART
Ministry of Education Organizational Chart  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41



. i -
KINMDON OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DyEUIMNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN SUIARY
Borrower:     Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:     US$145 million equivalent
Terms:     20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Description:     The Rural Basic Education Development Project is a major component,
supported by foreign financing, of a nationwide program to develop
upper basic education in Morocco during the period 1991-95. The main
objectives of the project are: a) to complement the ongoing Bank-
financed operation at the lover basic level by increasing
participation in upper basic education grades, with special attention
to rural areas where the shortage in schooling is most acute,
particularly of girls; and b) to enhance the teiching-learning
environment in this cycle. Access improvements would be limited to
rural areas, which are at a severe disadvantage. In these areas,
participation would be increased by: constructing middle schools
close to targeted communities; including a canteen in each of the
new middle schools; providing boarding facilities in about one-
eighth of the new schools; providing scholarships for the use of
canteen and boarding facilities; and providing textbooks free or at
nominal user charges to all students.
The teaching-learning environment in middle schools throughout the
country would be enhanced by: a) improving the process of curriculum
and textbook development, in-service teacher training, and
facilitating the process of supervision/inspection; b) introducing
a framework for national achievement testing which provides feedback
to be utilized for development and modification of policies and
practices; and c) providing instructional materials.
BeneÊfi-ts:,    Increasing opportunities for completing 9 years of basic education
of berter quality would enable more of the country's youth to meet
prerequisites for acquisition of higher level skills and to be better
prepared for entry into the modern workplace. This challenge is
especially important in rural areas where middle schools are few or
nonexistent, and particularly for girls, for whom the combination
of distance, financial and psychological barriers to pursuing
education in the cities remains formidable. In addition to making
the provision of education more equitable, expanding and improving
education of girls would contribute to the enhancement of important
social indicators and have strong positive externalities on family
size, health, nutrition and overall velfare, especially in view of
the country's high illiteracy rate of adult females and of the high
fertility rate.   In quantitative terms, the benefits include an



- ii -
increase of 120,000 in the number of rural itudents enrolled in rural
upper basic achools by 1997-98, when the newly-built schools operate
at close to full capacity.   rhis increase is very significant
considering the corresponding 1989-90 enrollment In rural areas of
52,000 students. Other benefits include nationvide enhancement of
delivery and student learning, as a result of in-service teacher
training programs, utilization of instructional materials, and
improved  supervision.    Furthermore,  introduction  and  proper
utilization of educational testing instruments should provide a guide
to   policy-makers   and   educators   for   sustaining   positive
accomplishments and modifying questionable policies and practices.
Risks:      The main risk lies in tight public finance constraints which vill
exert constant downward pressure on lov-visibility rural basic
education spending, in spite of solemn commitments to the contrary.
To guard against this, external financing vill concentrate heavily
on project components aimed at incrAasing accesa (construction and
equipping of new schools, rehabilitation of existing schools,
provision of textbooks, educational materials and boarding and
canteen scholarships). Government's project contribution will
concentrate on incremental teacher salaries and in-service teacher
training: the Governient vill be the sole financier of its urban
middle schools development program. Moreover, the proposed FY93
Higher Education Funding Reform Project, by promoting cost-recovery
mechanisms and the expansion of private education, should lessen
the risk of insufficient funding for basic education by creating an
outlet for excess demand for higher levels.
Some residual uncertainty inevitably remains as to the strength of
demand for basic education on the part of targeted groups -
disadvantaged rural populations and, more specifically, girls - for
whom the schooling decision is still imperfectly understood, in
Morocco as elsewhere. This uncertainty, however, only affects part
cf the expected growth in rural enrollmentr since the rest reflects
retention in their environment of rural students who would othervise
try to enroll in urban schools (but thereafter often drop out).
Also, the project includes a number of measures directly aimed at
encouraging participation: closer schools, coarding and canteen
scholarships and provision of textbooks free of charge or at nominal
f...   Finally,  lower-than-projected demand would be identified
through performance indicators monitored in the context of annual
reviews and school construction programs for subsequent years would
be adjusted to maximize utilization of existing schools.



i ii -
Estimatgd Prolect Costa b' Comion.nt:
USV Million
Local      Foremtn    Total
A. School Construction and Equipment         68.0        76.7       144.7
B. School Rehabilitation                      2.6         2.4         5.0
C. School Equipment and Textbook Programs   3.0           6.7         9.7
D. In-Service Teacher Training                5.3         0.3         5.6
E. Institutional Development                  0.0         2.0         2.0
r. Boarding and Canteen Scholarships          3.7         1.0         4.7
G. Incremental Salaries                      37.1        0Q..0       37.1
Tocal BASELINE COSTS                        119.7        89.1       208.8
Physical Contingencies                     3.8         4.4         8.2
Price Contingencies                       12.2         8.1        21.O
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         136.4       101.6       238.0
Financiing Plan:
!.'f; Million
!ocel      Foreign      Tota
Government                                   48.0         --         48.0
IERD                                         88.4        56.6       145.0
ADB                                                      445*
TOTA'                                       136.4       101.6       238.0
Estlmated Di&bursements:
------------US$ Million-------
Bank Fiscal Year                 92    93    94    95    96    97
Annual                           8.0  22.0  25.0  30.0  30.0  30.0
Camulative                       8.0  30.0  55.0  85.0 115.0 145.0
Rate of Return:   Not Applicable



- iv -
KINGOD OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVEWPNENT PROJECT
ST^S AEMIS    RPT
BASIC DATA SNE£
Country Data (1988)
Per Capita ONP:         US$750
Total Population:       24 million
Population growth rate: 2.6%
Education (1989-90)
Enrol]ment\t   Enrollment Rate\k  Average Annual %rowch Rate
_In EDZ. Rates 8J/81-89/9O
Total Female au  GrossS\ Fumale tet\g  Groas  Fmle net
(_000) 1 Total       Gros                 Gross
Primary (Grade* 1-5)    2,164.2  39.41   67.6X  54.41  56.65    -2.31  -1.6S  -1.0O
Upper Basic (Grades 6-9)  1,055.6  40.7X   45.81  38.01  30.9t  5.01  5.7X  6.8X
Secondary (Grades 10-12)  322.9  38.41   20.41  16.01  8.8X   O.7t  1.91  1.82
University (1988-89)      185.1  34.21    9S  N.A.  B.A.      N.A.  N.A.  N.A.
Public Expenditures on Education (1990)"
Government education budget as a %
of total govertment budget:           26.4%
Government education budget as a X
of GDP:                               5.5%
Government investment budget for
education as a X of government
investment budget:                  10.6%
Central government recurrent budget
for education as a % of government
recurrent budget:                    33.6%
G Public plus private schooling.
W  Enrollments as X of population in relevant age group.
î  Including under-age and over-age students.
Il Excluding under-age and over-age students.
W  Including transfers to local governments but excluding public spending for
vocational training (outside NOE).






KINGDOM OF OR0CÇCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR: BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
l. INTRODUTIO
1.   Morocco has a vell-developed agricultural sector,  significant  fishery
resources, and a rapidly developing manufacturing industry with phosphates as its
major mineral resource. About one fourth of exporte are agricultural products; but
performance in this sector is heavily dependent upon level of rainfall. In the
early 1980s, the negative impact of the world recession and of high international
interest rates vas compounded by a prolonged drought which brought forth severe
budgetary and balance of payment deficits. This forced Morocco in 1983 to start
serious economic stabilization and financial adjustment programs which included:
debt rescheduling, import restrictions, and a substantial curtailment of public
spending, especially in the form of compression of investment expenditures. After
the drought of 19?7, economic performance substantially improved. In 1989, however,
higher international interest rates and food prices, and a contractual dispute over
a phosphate export resulted in a deterioration of the current account, and an
increase in the budget deficit. In 1988 Moroccols population vas estimated at 24
million, about 54X in rural areas, and the GNP per capita was about $750.
Population growth was about 2.6X per annum.   Vomen in development and health
indicators include: (a) maternal mortality estimated at over 400/100,000 live
births; (b) infant mortality (73 per 1000 live births nationwide) varies greatly
betweer. urban (66 deaths per 1000 live births) and rural areas (100 deaths per 1000
live births); (c) total fertility ra.te (average number of children per voman) is
4.8; and (d) family planning prevalence ls around 37X.   Maternal mortality,
fertility rAt.e and family ulanning prevalence are substantially worse than in lover-
middle income country (L<l) comparators. Urban unemployment, though not high by
North African standards, ia significant (around 15X). Issues still being pursued
include expenditure rationalization, incentives, privatization of state enterprises,
and public sector management. Morccco's orientation towards an export-based economy
that involves different sectors places a premium on the availability of a skilled
and educated labor force, both in urban and rural areas. Thus, expanded education
and training, leading to levels of mastery of basic academic skills higher than is
presently the case, are crucial to improve the profile of the labor force, to make
it responsive to changing demand conditions and capable to adapt to an increasingly
competitive world market.
B. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
2.    Efforts for educational development in Morocco have been continuous since
independence in 1956.   Major activities in the sector have been directed at
expanding schooling capacity, Moroccanization of teaching staff, and Arabization
of curricula. Despite significant Government attention to the sector, Morocco'a
education indicators related to enrollment in basic education are lower than those
of comparable countries. A 1988 profile of access to and retention in schools



- 2 -
indicates gross\a enrollment rates in grade 5 (end of primary education) of 502 -
- 87X in urban areas (90 for boys, 85a for girls) and only 25% in rural areas (36X
for boys, 13% for girls).  This shows significant disparities betweun urban and
rural areas and between males and females in rural areas, and is consistent with
1989-90 public schools enrollment figures pre-ented in Table 1.  Morocco's adult
illiteracy rates remain high .- estimated in 1988 at 40X for males and 80Z for
females.   At the primary level, these problems are being addressed by the
Government, with IBRD and AIcican Development Bank (ADB) financing, in the FY89
Rural Primary Education Project which aims at expanding access and introducing
incentives for participation, particularly for females, and improvitg quality.
Implementation of the project has just started and its full impact will not be felt
for several years.  However, as primary enrollment rates in rural areas have not
increased as fast as school capacity in the 80s, until the first project year
(1989), intensive cross-sectoral research is underway, including a 1990-91 Living
Standards Measurement Survey (which includes a sp"%cific module on literacy ar.d
education), to disaggregate patterns of demand for education and identify factors
that impede participation of rural children in schooling so as to present
recommendations for further policy remedies.
TABLE 1: ' 1iC Primarx and Upper Basic Education Enrollments in 1989-90
_ Rural                Urban                      X
No-   ZTotal        No.    %Total      Total   Females
Primary (Grades 1-51
Total Enrollment (000)  834.1  40         1,251.0     60       2,085.1    39
Upver Basic (Gr. 6-9)
Enrollment (000)          77.1    7         965.0     93       1,042.1    41
of which grades 7-9\9    51.6    7          714.5     93         766.1   42
Introduction of a Basic Education Cycle
3.    In 1985, the Goverrment of >lorocco, in collaboration with the Bank, adopted
the introduction of a nine-year basic education program involving a significant
expansion of capacity at the middle school level (grades 6-9). The basic education
system comprised two cycles: primary (grades 1-5) and upper basic (grades 6-9).
Starting in 1990-91, the primary cycle was increased from five to six years, and
the upper basic cycle was reduced from four to three years. The introduction of
basic education began with children who joined grade 1 in 1985-86.  Implementation
will be completed in June 1994 when the first group of basic education students
will have completed grade 9 with no repetition. The flow of students from grade
5 to 6 has been increasing as follows: about 35X prior to 1984, 38% in 1984, 49%
in 1985, 55% in 1986, 61% in 1987, 62% in 1988, and 75% in 1989, the year in which
the primary cycle examination which controlled admission to grade 6 was abolished.
This is bound to result in a steady increase in the number of students who reach
Il Total grade five enrollments as a percentage of grade five age group.
Rl as of 1990-91, 6th grade was ahifted to the primary cycle.



- 3 -
the end of basic education. Current MOE policy is that, at the end of grade 9, 40%
of students vill be directed to secondary; 40% will be allowed to repeat (about half
of whom will then be admitted to secondary schools); and the remaining 20% will
leave the formal educat4on system.   The policy to restrict flow to secondary
education is dictated by capacity and aims at controlling the number of students
who will eventually secure the baccalaureat and move to higher education.
4.    Enrollment trends since the start of the reform program indicate that MOE's
goal of generalizing basic education by the year 2000 will probably not be realized
until the year 2010 or beyond, in spite of an average annual growth in net public
enrollment rates at the level of upper basic education of 6.8% during the past
decade. The latter growth was mostly in urban areas as the 1989-90 enrollment of
middle schools in rural areas accounted for only 7.4% of the corresponding total.
(Table 1), at a time when more than 50% of the population live in rural areas.
Enrollment of girls in public middle schools nationwide vas 41% in 1989-90
(Annex 1), again with much lower participation rates in rural areas, estimated at
about 30% of total rural enrollments.
Teacher Training
5.    Training of education personnel is currently the responsibility of the MOE
Directorate for the Training of Cadres of Education.   It consists of several
divisions concerned with the training of different categories of education personnel
and is also responsible for in-service training and school television.  Pre-service
training of middle school teachers takes place at middle school teacher training
institutions (CPRs, Centres Pédagogiques Régionaux). Admission is on the basis of
a competitive examination. The two-year program, open to baccalaureat holders,
covers both subject matter and pedagogy %theoretical and practical). A one-year
program, known as the pedagogic cycle, is also offered, open to candidates with a
minimum of two years of university study, also on the basis of a competitive exam.
The one-year program has, over the last few years, superseded the two-year program.
Teacher training institutions experienced a rapid expansion (partly funded by the
Bank) in the 70s, in order to achieve the Moroccanization of education staff. This
objective being reached, some of these institutions have been functioning below
capacity especially with the shift from a two- to a one-year program. There are
currently 14 CPRs with a ca9acity of over 1,000, although enrollment in 1988-89 was
only 4,300. A study of teacher training practices related to basic education,
commissioned by the MOE. was completed int 1989. It identified a need to reexamine
the objectives, content and methods of teacher traini1ng programs with respect to
adequacy, relevance and adaptability.  It also pointed to insufficient practice
teaching. These issues are currently being addressed in the framework of bilateral
arrangements, involving cooperation between Moroccan teacher training institutions
and institutions in Canada and Belgium. In addition, the action plans for pre-
service training recommended by the study were taken into account in developing in-
service training programs.
6.   In-service teacher training takes place in centers throughout the country
and is implemented by inspectors in the different disciplines in conjunction with
faculty of teacher training institutions. In-service teacher training has not been
structured to provide periodic upgrading of teachers but is usually organized in
response to emerging specific needs.  For example, extensive in-service teacher
training was needed in the process of changing the instruction language from French



- 4 -
to Arabic. As the implementation of basic education reaches grade 6 in 1990-91 and
in view of the transfer of grade 6 to primary education, an elaborate in-service
teacher training program involving more than 12,000 teachers was implewented in 1990
to prepare selected primary school teachers to teach 6th grade.
Curriculum and Its Development
7.    The gradual implementation of basic education and the corresponding changes
in curricula and textbooks have reached grade 5 in 1989-90 under the auspices of
the  Directorate  of Primary Education.    At  the  secondary  level,  curriculum
development is among the functions of the Directorate of Secondary Education
(currently responsible for upper basic and secondary education) th:ough its Division
of programs which has three units: programs and methods, instructional materials,
and textbooks. The chiefs of the division and the three units are the only high
level employees of the division. It is their responsibility to develop and modify
programs as the need arises, to evaluate them, and to oversee the processes of
preparation and editing of students' textbooks and teachers' guides. In most of
their work, they depend heavily on coordinating committees consisting of subject
matter specialists within the cadres of school inspectors.   With respect to
textbooks, authorship is through competition and the publication (inc.uding design
and printing> and distribution are contracted to publishing firms with specifi-
cations set by the MOE.  All textbooks are purchased by parents from private
retailers, except for modest support schemes, such as the pilot program included
under the Rural Primary Education Project which finances an initial stock of
textbooks to be distributed by school cooperatives which would recover costs through
user fees.
8.    The program of studies in all years of middle school is similar for all
students within a grade; the 1989-90 weekly distribution of periods per subject is
presented in Annex 2. A number of organizational and curricular changes are being
introduced which concern upper basic education. They include:
a. The transfer of grade 6 to the primary school, accomplished in September
1990.
b. The creation of a Directorate of Basic Education to assume responsibility
for education in grades 1-9.
c. The addition of two periods/week of physical sciences to 7th grade and one
period of physieal education to each of the 3 middle school grades.
d. Family Education, and Introduction to Technology, currently taught in Grades
8 and 9, will be introduced in 7th grade.
e. Curricular changes are being implemented as follows: 1989-90, 5th; 1990-91,
6th; and 1991-92, 7th; and so on.



- 5
Assessment and the Flow of Students
9.    There la no independent national system of performance/achievement testing
at any point in the Moroccan education system.  Assessment that determines flow of
students takes place continuously by classroom teachers and through more formalized
internal examinations at the end of trimesters, and the system operates as follows:
a. Promotion from one class to the next depends upon the combined results of
continuous evaluation -- oral and written questioning, exerci- i, and other
tasks in class.   The average of all scores is the trimest   grade.   In
computing the average for the year, 3rd trimester grades ore assigned a double
weight.
b. Currently, transition from grade 9 (end of middle school) to 10 (first year
of secondary school) is based upon the results of continuous assessment
throughout the year and an end-of-year examination.  At the end of the 9th
grade, a uniform exam is administered within the school and teachers mark the
papers of the students in their school.  A class council decides whether
studento will be promoted to gr.,de 10, asked to repeat or dropped. An
orientation council directs promoted students to the different branches of
secondary (literary, scientifie, or technical). It is currently predetermined
that about 40% from each middle school will be promoted to secondary
education. However, specific passing rates and orientation decisions are
influenced by schooling and boarding capacity in the targeted secondary
schools and availability of boarding scholarships.
C. MAJOR ISSUES IN UPPER BASIC EDUCATION
10.   The most serious issue in the education sector is the low level of enrollments
in the two cycles of basic education, particularly of rural children and girls, and
the slow overall gains in enrollments observed in the 80s in a context of growing
budgetary constraints. This section comprises a discussion of the following issues,
particularly in relation to upper basic education: geographic and gender disparity
in access and participation; financing of education; and qualitative aspects --
quality, efficiency and teaching practices; curriculum development; and assessment
and the flow of students.
Geogralphic and Gender Disparity in Access and Particpation
11.   Insufficient or inadequately targeted invastments in education in the 80s
against a background of demographic pressures -- the school-age population grew at
an average yearly rate of 2.4% -- contributed to minimal improvements in enrollment
rates: a scant 0.7% average annual growth in the net enrollment ratio of the entire
school-age population (a yearly decrease of 1% at the primary level, and a yearly
growth of 5.8% at the secondary level)\.  A positive and encouraging development
in the primary cycle is that new entrants to grade 1 increased by 5.5% in 1989-
90.
I/ School enrollments, excludin8 over-a8e end under-age *tudents, es a percentage of achool-age population at
each level.



- 6 -
12.   In 1989-90,  enrollments in rural primary schools accounted for 40% of
corresponding total, whereas enrollments in rural middle schools accounted for only
7.4%  of corresponding  total  (Table  1).    The  relatively better  geographie
distribution in primary education reflects Government efforts, with Bank support,
to address the issue of widening disparity between urban and rural areas at that
level. An important part of primary school construction covered by the FY82 Fifth
Education Project and the FY86 ESRP was in rural areas. This effort culminated in
the FY89 Rural Primary Education Project which aims at increasing access to primary
schooling in rural areas by providing about 11,000 classrooms and related facilities
over a five-year period.
13.   The most innovative element of the latter operation lies in measures intended
to bridge the gender gap in access and participation between rural boys and rural
girls at the primary level by improving accessibility of educational materials and
introducing community incentives to promote girls' participation. In 1989-90, rural
girls represented 29% of rural primary school enrollments and 22% of rural middle
school enrollments.
14.   The apparently satisfactory growth in enrollment rate of upper basic education
at the national level (para. 4) was concentrated in urban and peri-urban areas, with
rural areas receiving less than 10% of the total investment, when rural population
accounts for more than 50% of the nation. In 1989-90, for example, there was a
total of 682 middle schools (100 in rural areas) and 340 high schools (none in rural
areas). Furthermore, girls accounted for only 19.5% of boarders nationwide, and
for less than 10% in rural areas. These data illustrate the urgency of governmental
actions to increase capacity at the upper basic level, with the particular challenge
of attracting and retaining students from remote, underprivileged areas and girls -
- two socio-economic groups which have benefited little from the country's past
investments in the education sector at the upper basic level.
The Financing of Education
15.   The current budgetary constraints make it unlikely that additional resources
will be made available to the sector as a whole. Although universal basic education
is the Government's stated objective, the share of the education budget allocated
to that sub-sector has decreased over the last few years.  The investment budget
allocated to the education sector in the 80s -- which represented between 10.5 and
13.5% of the total Government investment budget (Annex 3) -- experienced an average
annual decline of 1% in real terms (Annex 4).  This decline is broken down as
follows: investments for primary and secondary education decreased yearly by 3%
(primary increased by 3% and secondary decreased by almost 8%) while investments
for higher education increased yearly by almost 7%.
16.   The largest share of the Government recurrent budget goes to the public formal
education sector (through allocation to the MOE), which accounts for about 30% of
the total recurrent budget. Additional funds are channeled through the Ministry
of Equipment and Vocational Training and other ministries for vocational training
of school leavers and professional developmen. of civil servants.  Within the  OE
recurrent budget, the share allocated to higher education grew steadily in the 70s
and early 80s, increasing from 11 to 18.5% between 1972 and 1983, and leveling off
at around 17 X since then. The burden of such a rapid growth in the post-secondary



sub-sector was borne essentially by the primary education sub-sector, whose share
during the same period declined from 45 to 36%, a level at which it has broadly
remained since. The allocation to secondary education has been much less affected,
fluctuating over time between 43 and 47%, its current level. It should be noted
that budget documents still reflect the old categorization system of primary (grades
1-5) and secondary (grades 6-12) cycles. The change into the new system of basic
(grades 1-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) cycles is expected to be introduced in
a year or two. Private education is overwhelmingly urban and its contribution is
minimal with 1989-90 enrollments of 3.6% of total corresponding enrollments in
primary, 1.3% in upper basic, and 8.7% in secondary, giving a national average of
3.4%.
17.   In the 80s, the recurrent budget for primary and secondary education grew
faster than enrollments -- recurrent budget grew at an average real annual rate of
4.2%, while enrollments grew at 2.0% annually. This essentially reflects a lowering
of the pupil:teacher ratio, given unchanged real salary levels. Salary and non-
salary budgets grew at the same pace, with the non-salary budgets hovering at about
5% of the total, representing in 1989 an allocation of DH 126 ($15) per student.
School textbooks at all levels are mostly paid for by parents, with very limited
free distribution to the poor puplls. The chronic underfunding of non-salary items
in the recurrent budget has led to the practice, unconventional in accounting terms,
of capitalizing such recurrent items as educational materials, textbooks, and fuel
for vehicles, particularly in the context of externally-financed operations, under
which the initial purchase and subsequent replenishment of such materials are adore
rigorously planned. It is, however, difficult to estimate the additional allocation
per student since budget documents lump several types of expenditure under one
heading.
18.   This practice has alleviated to a small extent the impact of insufficient
allocations to non-salary items in the recurrent .udget, but has not resolved the
issue. More specifically, it has had no impact on the allocations for scholarships
- the second largest recurrent expenditure after salaries - which are not
capitalized. Between 1981 and 1989, the budget allocated to boarding scholarships
for upper basic and secondary levels decreased by 25% in real terrs. The yearly
allocation is a global envelope which bears little relationship to the number of
boarding places available. In fact, the financing through its investment budget
of a new boarding facility does not ensure the Government's commitment to fully
fund the corresponding number of scholarships through its recurrent budget. While
the budget allocation decreased by 25% in real terms, the number of boarders
increased by almost 11% (from 47,700 places in 1981 to 52,900 places in 1989)
resulting in an overall cumulative decrease in real terms of over 32% in the average
budget allocation per scholarship. In effect, this means that the services provided
to boarders have degenerated. In conclusion, there is an urgent need to restrain
expenditure at upper levels and shift expenses within secondary to rural areas and
the upper basic cycle,
Ouality. Efficiency and Teaching Practices
19.   It is difficult to judge the quality of the educational system objectively
in the absence of periodic assessment of externally-validated performance
indicators.   However,  instructional materials are scarce and teacher-centered
instructional methods, as against those requiring the active, discovery-oriented



- 8 -
involvement of pupils, are predominant -- conditions not conducive to quality
according to educational research findings.  Furthermore, students who fall below
the expectations of teachers and the school are likely to be left to repeat or drop
out rather than be assisted through remedial work for which there are neither
sufficient salary  asources nor adequate training and organization.  Comparison of
educational flow indicators for 1989-90 (Annex 5) reflects disparities in favor of
urban areas. Lower quality of education in rural areas is compounded by preference
of qualified teachers to teach in urban settings (reinforced by the lack of rural
housing), the absence or unaffordability of pre-school education, and a lover
potential for academic support within the overwhelmingly illiterate, rural home.
Added to this problem is the difficulty of supervision in the remote areas.
20.   In 1989-90, rates of repeaters in grades 6, 7, 8 and 9 of public schools
were: 11.0, 10.8, 10.2, and 39.3X respectively while dropout rates were about 8-
9X in grades 6 to 8 and about 20% in grade 9. Considering the selectivity in the
flow of students throughout primary education and particularly at its end (para. 3),
the rates of repetition and drop-out in middle schools are still too high. The
final year repetition, however, is a function of limited capacity in grade 10;
including second-time passers, about 50 - 60X ultimately graduate into secondary.
As selectivity in admissions to middle school decreases, methods of teaching have
to adapt to a wider range of individual differences among students. Improvement
in teaching approaches is needed as one of the measures to increase internal
efficiency.
21.  Teaching practices are closely linked to nature of teacher preparation, both
pre-service and in-service, as well as to the availability and utilization of
instructional materials. In-service teacher training has been mostly organized in
response to emerging needs, e.g., change of language of instruction.  But most
classrooms have the bare minimum of equipment, basically desks and chalkboard, with
virtually no instructional materials, charts, bulletin boards, etc. The storerooms
attached to specialized science classrooms are not well-supplied.   Under such
conditions, it is difficult to organize serious individual or small-group laboratory
work in science teaching. The MOE has centers in various provincial delegations
responsible for the maintenance, preparation and/or distribution of instructional
materials for primary and secondary education. The centers are short of basic tools
and their staff need training related to maintenance of school equipment. The
National Center for Educational Technology (CNTE, Centre National de Technologies
Educatives) was officially established in January 1990. Its functions include the
supervision and coordination of all activities related to acquisition and
utilization of instructional materials and training of related personnel; design,
production and testing of prototype materials; contracting production of materials
to be used in schools; and distribution and maintenance. The building is ready and
a core of employees is in place but the center needs to be equipped to become
operationai. It is expected that this will be done through a grant fror. Italy.
22.   Curriculum development and textbook preparation need upgrading. The Division
responsible for these activities in the Directorate o_ Secondary Education is not
staffed to assume a leadership role in these fields nor to be actively involved.
Its current work involves mostly coordinating and following up the work of central
coordinating committees that exist for the various subjects of upper basic and
secondary education. Piecemeal curriculum modification is undertaken in response
to reactions and observations which often call for additions more than deletions.



A systematie, comprehensive, and integrated study and review of the curriculum
should precede the work of subject matter committees. Furthermore, curriculum and
its development have become an area of specialization which necessitates involvement
of qualified cadres and/or training of those involved. With respect to preparation
of school textbooks, there La also need to improve the content and approaches, to
develop expertise in editing, and to provide for proper utilization of feedback from
the field. Printing of textbooks is contracted to private publishing firms.
23.   Need for Commitment in Achievement and Testint.-   There is a need for
undertaking assessment to monitor the eduiational system by providing information
about levels of mastery and nature of skills in specific groups and summarizing
trends and differences in performance. Vithout developing benchmarks of student
performance on the natior' s major educational goals and periodie assessment of
cohorts, educators and policy-makers cannot compare data to measure progress and
to compare school districts, delegations, urban and rural areas, boys and girls,
etc. and cannot make reliable judgmeits about quality and standards. In addition
to knoving how the nation ls progressing in achievement, lt is also valuable to
compare with the status and progress in other countries. A number of countries
have resorted to periodic assessment of cross-sectional groups of their students
to determine trends,  and to identify strengths and weaknesses.   Thus,  the
educational system in Norocco would benefit from a well-designed program of
systematic assessment which would serve as a basis for taking measures that sustain
positive accomplishments and promote further improvements. What is more important
is the analysis of collected data and provision of feedback that will serve as a
basis for action -- be that by policy-makers, provincial delegates, inspectors,
principals or teachers.   Succesa in such activities necessitates securing a
capability and expertise in the design and implementation of national assessment
programs and related activities.
D. GOVERNMENT EDUCATION STRATEGY AND BANK LENDINO
24. Goverument Strategy. - The Government's stated objectives in general education
are to democratize access to basic education and narrow the gaps between urban and
rural areas, whilst continuing to modernize upper levels of education and adapt them
better to labor force requirements. The objectives of the Rural Primary Education
Project include realizing substantial increases in primary school participation in
poorly served areas, thus addressing enrollment growth problems in primary
education. The governmental decision taken in Nay 1990 to transfer the financing
of primary school construction to local communities can be viewed as a first stop
towards placing responsibility and accountability where they belong. However,
implementation needs to be monitored carefully to ensure that equity is not
compromised. Also much more effort needs to be devoted to identifying and attacking
the barriers to enrollment of underprivileged groups, especially rural girls --
whether they are in the form of financial opportunity costs felt by families, low
quality, relevance, or labor market input perceived by parents. This long-term
commitment to improving primary schools now needs to be complemented at the middle
school level in rural areas by pursuit of the goal of an integrated 9-year
curriculum. Generalizing basic education is a high priority as it provides students
with a "survival skills" package of training and knowledge, making them more
trainabla and better prepared to cope with the requirements of development.
Finally, the long-acknowledged weaknesses of the higher education system are being



- 10 -
addressed through a long-range restructuring program of public universities and
encouragement of expansion of private post-secondary education initiatives.
25.   In conformity with its goal of generalizing basic education, the Government
has committed itself to a nationwide upper basic education development program and
has requested Bank assistance to finance a share of it. The program embodies a
reinforced governmental commitment to a six-year operation for developing upper
basic education throughout the country.   It comprises building, equipping and
furnishing about 350 middle schools during the period 1991-95 with related
incremental teaching and administrative positions and scholarships and is expected
to increase enrollments by more than 240,000 students by 1997-98 when all new
schools operate at close to full capacity. It is estimated that 17,000 teaching
positions would be created by 1997-98, or about 3,400 per year, starting in 1993-94.
There are currently over 50,000 upper basic teachers. Over the last five years,
their number has increased yearly by about 3,000.   The program also comprises
components aimed at rehabilitation of dilapidated middle schools and enh&ncing the
teaching-learning environment through in-service teacher education, provision of
instructional materials, and improved supervision, curriculum development and
techniques of achievement testing. The Government has submitted a letter of intent,
acceptable to the Bank, which outlines their program of development of upper basic
education and provide quantitative information on enrollment targets, creation of
positions and financial allocations (both recurrent and investment). The overall
cost of the program is in the order of US$500 million equivalent net of taxes
(estimated at US$85 million equivalent) over six years. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it would carry out this program, with due diligence,
review progress in carrying out the program against performance indicators
acceptable to the Bank, report to the Bank on this progress by August 31 of each
year, and propose any revisions indicated by the review to the Bank (para. 68).
26.   Bank Lending Strategy for the Sector. - The Bank's support to the Government's
commitment to a broad policy framework around the core concept of universal basic
education is embodied in the ESRP whose main objective was to increase the
proportion of MOE budget allocated to basic education.  Based on the experience
under the reform program, the current approach of the Bank is to support a series
of sector investment programs designed to implement the basic education objectives,
whilst continuing to provide intellectual support to activate other policy issues,
especially the promotion of private post-secondary education as the only realistic
option to satisfy high social demands at that level, without diverting funds from
basic education. In the context of preparation of the FY93 Higher Education Funding
Reform Project Project, a dialogue has just been initiated with the Government to
identify and implement cost-recovery and cost efficiency measures in post secondary
and higher education and support mechanisms for private institutions, leading to
more equitable cost-sharing between the Gov'ernment and the beneficiaries. The Bank
is also discussing, in the context of the public expenditures component of the FY91
SAL II, specific target increase rates of the investment and non-salary operating
budget allocated to basic education.   Finally, the Bank continues to support
targeted development of vocational training facilities, in cooperation with employer
federations, aimed at school leavers who have completed at least the 9-year basic
cycle. As a follow-up to its support at the primary level, the Bank's contribution
through financing the proposed operation would concentrate on improving access and
participation in rural areas, particularly for females, while contributing in other
aspects to components covering the whole basic education cycle in the country, such



i il -
as improvements in teaching practices, instructional materials, and achievement
testing and system monitoring. Thus, the project develops and reinforces key policy
orientations in basic education, and constitutes an important step in addressing
the major problems of poverty and high fertility in Morocco which are partly
attributable to the low development of human capital and high rate of illiteracy.
The economic situation in the country is such that no sustained expansion of basic
education, at levels comparable to if not higher than population growth, will take
place without external financing to complement the major commitment of the
Government.
27.   Exerience with Past Lmndinst in the Sector.-  The Bank has extended two
credits and seven education loans to Morocco since 1963, three of which (Nos. 7-9
in Annex 6) are ongoing.  Consistent with Government needs and priorities, Bank
lending in the sector generally passed through several phases: reinforcing specific
types of educational institutions; strengthening employment-oriented skill training;
supporting structural reforms to improve efficiency and financial viability of
education at all levels; and expanding access to and participation in primary
schooling in rural areas, particularly for females.   The first five projects
supported expansion and quality improvement of primary and secondary education,
teacher training, and technical training at secondary and post-secondary levels.
In 1986, the Bank supported far-reaching policy measures throughout the education
system. In particular, the ESRP aimed at improving equity in education by devoting
a larger share of resources to primary and lover secondary education and improving
educational efficiency and quality. A Project Completion Report for this operation
is in progress. Preliminary conclusions indicate that commitment to basic education
was real, but the issues of social demand for higher education and the non-physical
constraints on rural primary access and retention need to be addressed urgently.
(The absence of post-primary schools in rural areas is probably a strong factor
contributing to low demand for primary education, in the sense that it promotes
self-selection by families, only avare of the labor-market opportunities linked to
post-primary education. The proposed project aims at reducing this factor). In
addition, two vocazional training projects, extended Bank involvement in middle-
level skills training to meet industrial sector manpower needs.  The education
reform provided a framework for specific investment programs related to developing
various levels of education. The Rural Primary Education Project was designed to
increase rural participation, particularly for females, to improve the quality of
education, to strengthen planning, monitoring, and evaluation capacity, and to
improve the effective utilization of resources in primary education.
28.   Bank lending reflects key lessons from previous projects, such as the need
for adequate staffing in the implementation unit, interministerial coordination,
need to seek adequate budgetary allocations for counterpart funding and realistie
implementation targets. During the past two years, there have been sweeping changes
in the MOE personnel involved in the implementation of externally-financed projects,
vith steady improvement in performance. However, it is too early to assess the
impact of the most recent change in Government policy (May 1990) which involves the
transfer to local government of the financing of primary school construction.



- 12 -
CHAPTER II - THE RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
29.   The main objectives of the project are to support the Government's overall
basic education goals through specific investments aimed at:
a. promoting greater equality of educational opportunity by expanding middle
school access to deprived sectors of the population such as those in rural
areas and girls, and to promote participation; and
b. enhancing the teaching-learning environment by contributing to the improvement
of quality of education through in-service teacher education as well as
improved utilization of instructional materials, supervision, curriculum
development and techniques of achievement testing.
30.   Although the major emphasis of the project is on upper basic education, some
components directly or indirectly deal with either primary or secondary education.
Provision of transportation to enable inspectors to visit schools for teacher
supervision and guidance, and development of capabilities in achievement testing,
in curriculum development and textbook preparation illustrate the outflow of
benefits from the program in both directions. Furthermore, the proposed in-service
teacher training program involves teachers of both upper basic and secondary
schools.
B. IMPROVING BASIC EDUCATION ACCESS FOR DISADVANTAGED CROUPS
31.   Construction. Equippinf  and Furnishing of New Middle Schools. -  Previous
expansion at the middle school level took place mainly in urban areas. This uneven
geographical coverage resulted in low participation by rural children. In 1989-
90, enrollment in rural areas for this level of education was 7X of all upper basic
enroilments (Table 1) and only 12% of students from rural communities benefited from
boarding scholarships to study in middle schools away from their homes. A number
of factors including dispersion of population, transport logistics, insufficient
number of schools, poverty, and inadequate numbers of boarding scholarships have
interacted to keep a large proportion of children out of the middle school. The
limited number of middle schools in rural areas (100) implied the existence of
widespread catchment areas of students and long distanceê  from homes.  At the
beginning of 1988-89, more than one-fourth of the 80,000 who qualified for admission
to (mostly urban-based) middle schools did not register: distance and/or cost of
boarding or transport vere identified as the most likely explanation.
32.   The project would finance the construction, equipping and furnishing of
approximately 250 middle schools, of new minimum-size standard design, in rural
areas, each accommodating 12 sections of studentà. New schools will be provided
with educational materials and supplies. These schools will be distributed over
a much larger number of smaller catchment areas, thus shortening distances from
homes and facilitating access. It is expected that these new middle schools in
rural areas will increase enrollments by about 120,000 students when they operate
at close to full capacity in 1997-98. New schools would enroll students only in
grade 7 during their first year of operation; in grades 7 and 8, during the second
year; and in grades 7, 8 and 9 during the third year. It is expected that average



- 13 -
enrollment per school will eventually exceed 360 as these schools establish roots
in the respective communities. Facilities for vater and electricity vill not be
uniformly available. Of the 250 likely school sites that have been identified with
adequate catchment area of students at this level, it is expected that by the time
school construction begins: 160 sites will have water and electricity; 46 vill have
only electricity; 6 will have only vater; and the remaining 38 will have neither.
Alternative technologies (wells, generators, solar energy, etc.) vill be resorted
to and addressed on a case by case basis. All the new schools will have canteens
and about 30 will have board.ng facilities. A new standard architectural design
for middle schools has been developed by MOE technical staff in collaboration with
Bank mission members; schematic plans, defining each building type, have been
reviewed and found satisfactory.
33.   With respect to existins middle achools, the project would contribute to the
rehabilitation of dilapidated school buildings, in the amount of US$5 million
equivalent. During negotiations, the Government submitted and the Bank approved
a rehabilitation program including the list of schools to be rehabilitated, the
estimated cost and implementation schedule. Educational supplies, which vill be
provided in full to all nev project schools, will be partially provided to existing
schools dependlng upon their current inventories (US$6 million equivalent is
designated for this purpose). The aim is to close the potential quality gap between
uew and existing schools.
34.   The MOE is vell avare that the mere establishment of schools vill not  by
itself ensure attendance.   Thus, in order to facilitate participation by these
target groups, the MOE is committed to offering potential solutions to some of the
other problems contributing to lov enrollments in rural areas: distance between
communities and schools and indirect cost of education.   Accordingly, the MOE
decided that: (i) the schools would be of the smallest optimal size -- 9 classrooms
occupied by 12 sections of students (about 360 students) instead of the current
average configuration of over 20 classrooms for over 600 students in existing
schools.   This allovs the construction of more schools, located closer to the
targeted communities; (ii) each school vould include a 100-seat canteen; and
(iii) boarding facilities would be built in one school out of eight, vith a capacity
of 120 beds, half of which would be designated for girls. Other project-supported
measures that are planned to increase participation, especially of children remote
from catchment areas include: provision of boarding scholarships vith the objective
that half of ntiew scholarships vould be assigned to girls by the end of project
implementation; provision of scholarships for the meals served in the school
canteen; and supporting a system of providing subsidized textbooks at lov cost or
against nominal user fees through local school cooperatives. A similar program of
provision of textbooks free of charge or at nominal fee is currently being
implemented under the Rural Primary Education Project. Experience gained in 1991
under this program vill help define the textbook program for the proposed project.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to submit by December 31, 1991, for Bank
reviev and approval, a detailed plan for the provision of textbooks (free or against
nominal user fees) to children in all middle schools (para. 68). Considering that
in 1989-90, girls accounted for only 19.5% of boarders in middle schools nationwide,
and for less than 10% in rural areas, the Government expects these measures to
provide a strong incentive for rural parents to enroll their daughters in middle
schools.



- 14 -
C. INSTITUTIONAL AND OUALITATIVE DEVELOPMFNT
Curriculum Development and Tmplementation
35,   bntancing CrÇriculum and Textbook Development. -   In order to promote
effectiveness, to improve consistency between curricula and textbooks, and to
coordinate among different subject matter areas, the Division of Programs vlll be
enriched vith 13 full time staff members representing major subject matter areas.
These would be mostly existing inspectors in the various disciplines who have been
involved in curriculum/textbook development activities. A training program will
be set up mainly for the benefit of the members of the expanded Division but will
also involve about 200 personnel involved in curriculum development and textbook
preparation. Seminars/workshops will be conducted by experts in specified areas
related to development, experimentation, and evaluation of curicula and tlextbooks.
In addition, short term study in selected foreign centers or institutions will be
organized for members of the Division.   This technical assistance vill be
supplemented by resources to secure technical equipment and professional references,
documents, and periodicals for the Division as well as renovation of office space.
36.   The project includes an in-service teacher traininR program which is planned
to upgrade teachers and introduce them to new practices.   Specifically, the
objectives of the program are: to familiarize teachers with   methodology for
relating teaching to curriculum objectives; to introduce them to different models
of teaching, and to formulation of objectives and selection of content and
instructional materials; and teo orient them to modern methods of assessment. The
program vill also facilitate the implementation of developed curricula and the
appropriate utilization of new textbooks.   The trainers are generally   MOE
inspectors and faculty of teacher training institutions. All middle school teachers
-- about 50,000 -- vill be trained annually between 1991 and 1993 paralleling the
expansion of basic education to cover grades 7 through 9. Secondary school teachers
will be trained in 1994 and 1995, in time to receive the first wave of students who
will have experienced the basic education program in full.
37.   The various phases included in the proposed in-service teacher training
program are: preparing the training plan by specifying its scope and detailed
objectives, and developing programs and schedules as well as preparing the necessary
doecuments that will be utilized; training the trainers; and finally the training
of teachers which vill be at the level of the delegations for middle school teachers
and at the level of the academies for secondary school teachers (there are 49
provincial delegations and 14 academies in the country). The development of the
overall plan and the initial training of the trainers is taking place during 1990
through MOE financing. Training takes place for a total of 5 days a year, and 6
hours a day distributed into periods of one or 2 days during the year. As teaching
both in the middle and secondary school is based on specialization, teachers of a
subject may teach it or be prepared to teach it at different levels within a cycle.
Accordingly, the in-service training program will involve every middle school
teacher during each of tbree consecutive years, and a similar practice holds for
teachers of secondary.



- 15 -
Assesment-su dEaLuat ion
38.   Establisaent vithin the  OMO  of Assessment and XoLtorinj Functions and
Capabilities.- Because there is no specialized division dealing with assessment
or testing in the M9E, the project vill support the establishment of a section
responsible for national achievement testit.q within the Planning Directorate of
the MOE. Its major functions vill be: to carry out systematic national testing to
determine levels of achievement in specific subjects at different grade levels of
basic education; to determine the extent to which the system of education is
achieving its objectives; to promote utilization of results of testing as a basis
for informed decision making and for recommending measures that sustain positive
accomplishments and promlote further improvements, particularly in programs and
teaching practices; to summarize trends and differences in performance among
relevant sub-populations; to provide reliable base-line data for assessing the
effects of educational reform or as reference points in the process of periodic
assessment; and to participate in international comparative studies in school
achievement in collaboration with the International Association for the Evaluation
of Educational Achievement (IEA). Cross-national results from varicus IEA studies
have challenged participating institutions/countries to review the structures,
practices and curricula of their education systems.
39.   The proposed National Assessment Program (NAP) vill develop a series of
standardized tests for the periodic survey of cohorts of students.  In order to
carry out its functions, it needs to establish a professional test development and
related research capacity and undertake a systematie program of item design and
experimentation. Technical assistance and fellowships vill be utilized to help
spearhead the NAP and to provide training. Preparations vill be started for the
participation of Morocco in the forthcoming IEA international study in mathematics
tentatively scheduled in 1994. A schedule of the activities that are proposed in
the NAP is presented in Amnex 7 along with needs in staffing and training, hardware
and software, and estimated costs.
40. Imoact Evaluation of Factors Affecting Particiatlon. - The project supports
the execution of a research study, under the leadership of a qualified expert, for
the purpose of evaluating the impact of the measures introduced in the project (as
vell as other relevant factors) on the school access and participation in rural
areas, particularly of girls. It is assumed that bringing the schools closer to
the communities, providing boarding and canteen scholarships, and alleviating the
burden to poor families of purchasing textbooks vill contribute substantially to
solving the problem of low participation in schooling. This assumption needs to
be verified through a careful and systematic research analysis of enrollment and
attendance rates in samples of existing middle schools in rural areas and of new
schools and the relationship to presumed causal factors.   This research vould
complete a sector study currently underway (to be completed by the end of 1991) on
household demand for primary education in rural areas and a study on impact of
measures implemented under the Rural Primary Education Project to be carried out
by UNESCO. The inclusion of the new middle schools in the study vill have to vait
until 1993-1995 when some new schools become operational. Thus, the research vould
be conducted in two phases: (a) involving existing schools, to be concluded in
December 1992; and (b) involving new schools, to be concluded in December 1995.
More details about the study and the estimated cost are presented in Annex 8. During



- 16 -
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that such a two-phased study would
be carried out (para. 68).
Logistical S&i,nort
41.   Supporting the Implementation of Supervision ?unctions.-  In a number of
provinces and distant locations, inspectors have not been able to perform their
supervision function for lack of transportation. In some cases, inspectors had
arranged for the teacher who is to be evaluated or supervised to teach an unfamiliar
class in a different school at a location convenient to the inspector. The project
would finance the purchase of about 4 vehicles per delegation.
42.  Enhancina Maintenance of Educational Hauloment and Materials.- The project
includes a provision to support 25 upper basic and secondary and 37 primary
education MOE centers which are concerned with the preparation, maintenance, and/or
distribution of instructional materials. About 112 staff members of these centers
(3 for each upper basic and secondary education center and one for each primary
education center) will be trained and maintenance tools and spare parts for
instructional apparatus and other school equipment will be provided.
Incremental. Reurrent Cost
43.   Incremental Salaries and Iapact on Recurrent Budget.-  Under the proposed
project, additional recurrent costs would be generated by: (a) the recruitment of
teachers and administrative personnel to staff the new middle schools; (b) the
provision of boarding scholarships for 120 students in each new rural middle school
with boarding facilities (one out of eight), and the provision of canteen
scholarships for 100 students per school for all new middle schools; (c> the
maintenance and upkeep of new schools; and (d) the maintenance and provision of
fuel for vehicles purchased under the project. With the exception of the last item
related to vehicles, there will be a similar incremental recurrent cost impact
generated by components of the Program completely financed by the Government
(para. 50).



- 17 -
CHAPTER III - PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING.  MPLENENTAION AND DISBURSElHEgm
Frotect Costa
44.   Summarv of Project Costa.-  Project costs are estimated at 1,880.0 million
Moroccan Dirhams (DH) equivalent to US$238.0 million net of taxes. Project costs
by category of expenditure are given in Table 2.
TABLE 2: Pro1ect Co8ts bv CateRorg of Expenditure
IDAL IEASMEC UMJT DEvE.05T Bumu
8im17 Account Co"lS
DIR_S                                  U%t XTotat
-................       .........................           Foreign        Se
Local   Foreign       Tottl Locl  Foreign    Totat                 Exchano        Cots
...................................    ...........................   ..... ..................-----*- -
t. INVSTWNT CSTS
...................
A. COlSTRUCtIIW                         478.0      476.5      954.5          60.5      60.3    120.8            49.9       57.9
H. EQUIPSENT                              9.7       22.6        32.2           1.2       2.9      4.1           70.0        2.0
c. fRIIITUE                              26.3        26.3       52.5          3.3        3.3      6.6           50.0        3.2
0. fvAKS a EOUC.NATERIALS                66.7       155.7      222.4          8.4       19.7      28.2          70.0        13.5
E. EXPERTS SERYICES                       0.0        13.9       13.9          0.0        1.8       1.8         100.0        0.8
F. FELLOSKIPS                             0.0         1.9        1.9          0.0       0.2       0.2          100.0        0.1
3. IN*SERVICE TRAINING                   41.0        0.0        41.0          5.2        0.0      5.2            0.0        2.5
,.................. ;;........     . ...... .............. ...................... .................................... .............
Total INWSTRENT COSYS                   621.7      696.8    1318.4           78.7      88.2    166.9            52.8       79.9
,..............................    ................................ ........... ................--.--- -
I;. RECURRENT CCSTS
. ..................
A. SCHOtARSHIPS                          29.6         7.6       37.2          3.7        1.0      4.7           20.5        2.3
8. INCREMENTAL SAURIES                  293.5        0.0      293.5          37.1       0.0      37.1            0.0       17.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................................................... ..... ........... ----s 
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   323.1        7.6      330.7          40.9        1.0     41.9            2.3       20.1
Total SASELINE COSTS                    944.8      704.4    1649.1          119.6      89.2    208.8            42.7      100.0
Physicat ContinSencies                30.3       34.5       64.8           3.8       4.4       8.2          53.3         3.9
Price Contlngencies                  102.1       64.1      166.1          12.9       8.1      21.0          38.6        10.1
. .......................... . ........ . .   ...................
totat PROJECTS COStS                   lOt7.1      803.0    1880.0          136.3    10t.6    Z38.0             42.7      114.0
_      _     _     _    __UuuSuU.SOa- SUUUU        _                      C     #    __a U 8
..  ................. ...........................................................................................
Vatues Scled by 1000000.-0    11/13/1990  10:23



* 18
45.   Basis of Cost Estimates.-  The coste of construction and rehabilitation are
based on recently awarded contracts for similar work. Technical assistance costs
have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable technical
assistance in the region. Local training costs have been estimated on the basis
of actual in-service training costs in Norocco. Base cost estimates reflect prices
at negotiations (January 1991).
46.   Cost ver Student.-  Construction costs are estimated at an average of DH
10,200 (US$1,300) per student place. Furniture and the initia.2 stock of educational
materials are estimated at an average of DH 2,900 (US$370) per student place, and
compare with other Bank-financed middle schools in the Region.
47.   Custom Duties and Taxes.-  All project costs are net of taxes.  Goods and
services imported directly for use by Government ministries are exempt from custom
duties. Direct and indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and locally
manufactured furniture, equipment and educational materials are estimated at US$45
million.
48.   ContinPengv Allowances.- Project costs include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen physical additions of US$8.2 million equivalent, equal to 3.9% of base
costs -- 5% for civil works, equipment, furniture, educational materials and
vehicles, and 3% of base costs for expert services and foreign fellowships. Price
contingencies between negotiations and the completion of project implementation are
estimated  at US$21.0  million  equivalent,  or  10.1%  of base  costs.    Total
contingencies represent 14.0% of base costs. Annual rates of price increases have
been applied to foreign and local costs at the rate of 3.6% for the duration of the
project. It is expected that differentials between foreign and local inflation
during project implementation would be reflected in an adjustment to the exchange
rate.
49.   Foreign Exchante Comnonent. -  The foreign exchange component was estimated
as follows: (a) civil works and furniture: 50%; (b) equipment, educational materials
and vehicles: 70%; (c) expert services and foreign fellowships: 100%; (d) in-
country training and salaries: 0%; (e) boarding scholarships: 10%; and (f) canteen
scholarships: 25%. These percentages have been determined by: (a) calculating the
indirect foreign exchange content of construction, furniture and educational
materials; (b) assuming that the majority of equipment and materials would be
imported; and (c) assuming that all project specialists would be foreign. The
resulting foreign exchange component, contingencies included, is estimated at
US$101.6 million, or about 43% of total project costs.
50.   Recurrent Expenditures. -     Project items that would generate additional
recurrent costs are listed in para. 44 including both salary and non-salary
components. In the course of annual reviews (no later than August 31st of each
year), the Goverrment would prepare and send to the Bank MOE's investment and
recurrent budget proposals for the following year (para. 68). The total overall
Program incremental recurrent costs generated by these items over the duration of
the project are estimated at about DH 950 million in 1990 prices (DH 330 million
for the project). Net annual incremental recurrent costs for the la.st year of the
Program -- 1996, when a'1 Program schools are open -- represent about DH 420 million
(in 1990 DH) or about 8% (DH 200 million or about 4% for the project) of the 1990
MOE recurrent budget for secondary education, which represents 16% of the Government



- 19 -
recurrent budget. Thus, the Program incremental recurrent costa in 1996 represent
1% of the 1990 Government recurrent budget (0.6Z for the proposed project). The
Program is expected to be fully sustainable.
Prlect Financing
51.   The total project cost of US$238.0 million equivalent net of taxes would be
financed as follows: (a) the proposed Baîsk loan of US$145.0 million would finance
61% of project costs; (b) the proposed African Development Bank (ADB) loan would
finance an additional US$45.0 million equivalent or 19% of total project costs; and
(c) the Government would finance US$48.0 million equivalent or 20X of project costs.
The Government would also finance about US$45 million equivalent in direct and
indirect taxes. The proposed IBRD and ADB loans would finance 100% of the foreign
exchange component (US$101.6 million) and the IBRD loan would also finance 65% of
local costs (US$88.4 million) excluding taxes. A breakdown of project financing
is shown in Table 3.
TABLE 3: Financint Plan b! Disbursement Qategory
Category of Expenditure        ------- US$ Million ------   Estim. Financing(<)
Gov't    IBRD ADB   Total    Gov't IBRD  ADB
Civil Works                      -      96.3  30.5  126.8      -    76   24
Equipment & Vehicles             -       3.3   1.0    4.3      *    76   24
Furniture                        -       5.3   1.6    6.9      -    76   24
Books & Educational Materials   -       22.5   7.1   29.6      -    76   24
Experts Services & Fellowships  -        1.6   0.5    2.1      -    76   24
In-Service Training             5.4            -      5.4    100     -    -
Scholarships                    2.7      2.0   -      4.7     57    43    -
Incremental Salaries           37.2      -     -     37.2    100     -    -
Unallocated                     2.7    14.0   4.3   21.0    _3    67   20
Total                       48.0   145.0  45.0  238.0      20    61   19
lianatement and Implementation
52.   Coordination.- The proposed project would be implemented by existing MOE's
operational units in charge of each project activity. Overall coordination would
be ensured by MOE's Planning Directorate (PD), comprising 6 divisions staffed by
30 professionals.
53.   Implementation of Project Comipronents. - MOE' 8 PD would implement and supervise
the school construction and rehabilitation programs, including the delivery and
setting up of equipment and materials. Up to 1990, construction of post-primary
schools was implemented by the Ministry of Public Works. MOE's PD has, however,
acquired substantial experience in implementation and supervision of construction.
In the last seven years alone, it has successfully implemented the construction and



- 20 -
equipping of over one thousand primary schools (partly Bank-financed), as vell as
eleven technical lycées and eight secondary achool teacher training institutes (also
partly Bank-financed), these nineteen latter institutions markedly larger and
technically more sophisticated than the proposed middle schools. In addition, MOE's
PD is currently responsible for the implementation and supervision of about 30
middle schools, to open in the fall of 1991. MOE's PD would implement the proposed
construction and rehabilitation program through its 49 regional technical units.
Regional delegations are for the moment only staffed with planning experts. MOE
plans to create full technical units in all delegations. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would establish a technical unit in each
region, staffed with at least one architect or technical agent, one engineer and
support personnel, prior to launching bids for the construction of middle schools
in that region (para. 68). As part of its reporting requirements, the Government
would notify the Bank of the establishment of technical units. Each year, the
annual construction program would be reviewed jointly with the Bank in the context
of the preparation of the MOE investment program for the following year (para. 68).
At the central level, MOE's PD would be responsible for all aspects of procurement,
from bid advertising to contract signing.   For the middle school construction
program, it would employ regional architects - to work under its regional technical
units -to adapt middle school prototype designs to local constraints, but would
centrally review and approve all changes and incorporate them in documents before
bid launching. There are locally a number of suitable construction firms. To
minimize the risk of overstretching any f irm's capacity, the bidding documents would
stipulate that no firm is to be awarded more than three contracts at any given time
and that firms submitting bids have to demonstrate past experience with construction
programs of similar scope. MOE's PD would also be responsible for maintaining the
project accounts.
54.   Sunervision. Honitoring and Evaluation. - Every year, the Government and the
Bank would review the progress achieved in the implementation of the various
components and would review the proposed MOE investment and recurrent budgets for
the following year including the level of non-salary expenditures. Indicators of
performance specified in Annex 5 would also be reviewed. The project would be
supervised and monitored by the Bank through normal supervision mechanisms, and
vould require an estimated 60 staffweeks of supervision by architects, educators
and education planners over the five years of implementation (an extra 2 staffweeks
per year are estimated for the annual program and budget review).
55.   Sites.-  Acquisition of sites is the responsibility of MOE''s PD.  Under
previous practices or arrangements, local governments in rural areas have given
school sites to MOE free of charge or for a nominal fee. It is expected that such
arrangements vill continue for the duration of this project.
56.   Environmental  Imnact. -    The  project  was  reviewed  under  the  Bank' s
Environmental Assessment procedures and determined to be in Category C, for
operations which do not result in a significant environrental impact.
57.   Naintenance.- Maintenance of all physical facilities is the responsibility
of the MOE's PD and vill involve its regional technical units as they are created
(para. 53). The project shall have a positive impact on maintenance of educational
materials also.



- 21 -
Frocuementu
58.   Contracts for equipment and educational materials would, as far as possible,
be grouped to form bidding packages attractive to suppliera. Invitations to bid
vill typically be grouped into approximately 15 packages, each of which could be
supplied by one company. Parallel financing vill be the choice procurement method
for items externally-financed both by the ADB and the Bank. Bank-financed items
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), estimated at US$21.3 million,
will be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985)" and will be based on the "Sample Bidding
Documents -- Procurement of Goods" (March 1986). ICB will account for about 56X of
the total value of the project's equipment and vehicles and 91X of educational
materials. Detailed procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements à
----------------- US$ Million ----------------
Category of Expenditures       Procurement dethod                 Total Co0t
ICB     LCB     _Other   _NZ&A
Civil Vorka                          136.9                           136.9
(107.5)                        (107.5)
Equipment and Vehicles        2.5                2.0                   4.5
(2.2)             (1.5)*                (3.7)
Furniture                              7.7                             7.7
(5.9)                          (5.9)
Books and Educational
Materials                 29.7                3.0                  32.7
(23.6)             (1.5)**              (25.1)
Experts Service and
Fellowships                                            2.3          2.3
(1.8)       (1.8)
In-service Training                                       5.7          5.7
(0.0)       (0.0)
Scholarships                                              5.4          5.4
(1.1)       (1.1)
Incremental Salaries                                     42.8         42.8
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                  32.2    144.7       5.0     56.2         238.0
Bank financing              (26.8)  (113.4)    (3.0)    (2.9)        (145.0)
F Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
* Local shopping.
** Direct Contracting.



. 22 -
59.   Procurement would be as follows:
a. Equipment, vehicles and educational materials, estimated at US$32.3 million
equivalent, would be procured through ICB. Domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the existing customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports applicable to non-
exempt importera. Under ICB procedures, all bidding packages for goods over
US$350,000 equivalent (about 80X of the total estimated value of goods
contracts) would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. The balance of contracts would be subject to random review
by the Bank after contract award.
b. Civil works contracts, estimated at a total of US$136.9 million equivalent,
would be relatively small and widtly scattered and as such would not be
suitable for ICB.   On previous occasions,  foreign contractors had not
expressed interest in such contracts. These contracts would be advertised
and awarded by MOE's PD under local competitive bidding procedures, which are
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the works. A sample bidding document, which would be used for all civil
works contracts, has been reviewed by the Bank. No contract is expected to
exceed US$2.0 million equivalent. Standard documentation submission will,
however, be followed. Morocco's local competitive procurement bidding rules
and procedures are acceptable, provided: all bidders are treated equally,
particularly in termas of the requirements of furnishing bid and performance
securities; bids are opened in public; and foreign firms wishing to
participate are allowed to do so in accordance with local procedures. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that these provisos for local
competitive procurement bidding would be adhered to (para. 68).
c. Furniture contracts would be small and as such would not be suitable for ICB.
Furniture, not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent in each contract and estimated
in total to cost US$7.7 million equivalent, would be purchased through
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures (LCB) for contracts;
d. Reading books, estimated to cost US$3.0 million equivalert, would be acquired
through direct contracts with publishers; and
e. Sundry items not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent in each contract and which,
in the aggregate, would not exceed US$2.0 million equivalent, could be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with
local shopping procedures outlined in para 3.4 of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines.
Technical Assistance
60.   Consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
Not more than six, but at least three, qualified institutions or firms would be
requested to submit proposals. Terms of reference and implementation schedules for
specialist services and fellowships have been discussed during appraisal and vill
be reviewed and finalized during negotiations.



23 -
Statua of Project Preparation
61.    The design of standard middle schools has already been completed and a
standard bidding package for construction is being prepared for review during
negotiations to allow for timely bid launching.   The detailed plan for the
rehabilitation program vill also be reviewed during negotiations. Further, MOE has
already advertised positions for 14 technical units and plans to start recruiting
in early 1991. Finally, the technical assistance package has been fully defined
and terms of reference are being finalized. Project Completion would be June 30,
1996, and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1997 (Schedule 1).
Diabursements
62.   The average disbursement period for projects in Morocco -- all sectors,
including education -- is seven years from date of effectiveness. The disbursement
profile for EMENA education projects is eight years with 80X being disbursed over
seven years.   In light of the satisfactory status of project preparation, the
proposed program would be disbursed in about six years (Schedule 1). Disbursements
vould be made against:
i.    80% of expenditures for civil works;
ii.   100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported items, 100% of local
expenditures (ex factory cost) for items manufactured locally, and 75%
of local expenditures for other locally purchased items;
Mi.  100% of expenditures for expert services and foreign
fellowahips; and
iv.   50% of expenditures for boarding and canteen scholarships.
63.   Disbursements for the preceding items (para. 62) would be made upon receipt
by the Bank of fully documented applications, except for scholarships and
expenditures under contracts valued at less than US$350,000 equivalent, which would
be  made  against  certified  statements  of  expenditures  (SOE).    Supporting
documentation for SOE would be retained by KOE's PD and regional delegations and
made available for review by the Bank during supervision.   Direct payment
applications and application for special commitments would be accepted for minimum
amounts of US$100,000 equivalent.
Special Account
64.   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish,
maintain and operate under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a special
account in a currency and financial institution of the Ministry of Finance
acceptable to the Bank, to which the World Bank would make an initial deposit of
US$5 million equivalent, corresponding to a four-month average Bank disbursement.
The special account would be replenished when at least one third of the initial
deposit  has  been  withdrawn  from  the  special  account.    Documentation  for
replenishment requests would follow the same procedure as in paragraph 63.  In



- 24 -
addition, monthly bank statements of the special account would accomj,any
replenishment requests.
Accounts and Audits
65.   The Covernment would open and maintain separate accounts for the project,
identifying expenditures financed by the Bank and the ADB.  Project accounts,
including the special account (para. 66) vould be audited by independent auditors
in accordance with the March 1982 Bank 'Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". Tt.e accounts of Bank-financed
education projects, have, up to nov, been audited by General Inspectors of the
Ministry of Finance.  Audit reports have beén satisfactory in content.  During
negotiations, assurances vere obtained that, vithin six months of the end of each
fiscal year, the GCovernment vould provide to the Bank an audit report of such scope
and details as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements made on the basis of statements of expenditures
(para. 68).
Benéfits and Risks
66.   Senefits.-   Increasing opportunities  for completing 9 years of basic
education of better quality, vould enable more of the country's youth to meet
prerequisites for acquisition of higher level skills and to be better prepared for
entry into the modern workplace. This challenge is especially important in rural
areas where middle schools are few or nonexistent, and particularly for girls, for
whom the combination of distance, financial and psychological barriers to pursuing
education in the cities remains formidable. In addition to making the provision
of education more equitable, expanding and improving education of girls would
contribute to the enhancement of important social indicators and have strong
positive externalities on family size, health, nutrition and overall velfare,
especially in view of the country's high illiteracy rate of adult females and of
the high fertility rate. In quantitative terms, the benefits include an increase
of 120,000 in the number of students enrolled in upper basic education in rural
areas by 1997-98, when the newly-built middle schools operate at close to full
capacity. This increase is very significant considering the 1989-90 total
enrollments in rural areas of less than 52,000 students. Other bénefits include
enhancement of delivery and student learning, nationwide, as a result of systematic
in-service teacher education programs, utilization of instructional materials, and
improved supervision.    Furthermore,  introduction and proper utilization of
educational testing instruments should provide a guide to policy-makers and
educators for sustaining positive accomplishments and modifying questionable
policies and practices.
67.   Risks. -  One risk lies in the tight public finance constraints which vill
exert constant downward pressure on low-visibility rural basic education spending,
especially on crucial non-salary items.  To guard against this, the Government
confirmed, through a letter of intent and a convenant in the Loan Agreement, its
overall commitment for the period 1991-1995, in quantitative termas, to a national
program of development of upper basic education in both urban and rural areas, with
specific goals which vill be reviewed and evaluated annually. The proposed FY93
Higher Education Funding Reform Project, by promoting cost recovery mechanisms and
the expansion of private education should lessen the risk of insufficient funding



- 25 -
for basic education by creating an outlet for excess demand of higher levels of
scarce funds.  Another risk lies in the capacity of the MOE's regional delegations
to adequstely supervise the respective school construction programs especially
since this partially-decentralized approach is novel. This risk is mitigated by
the fact that specific plans have been developed to involve experienced technical
staff at the local level and to complete major prototype design at the central
level. Assurances were obtained that specific organizational units and additional
recruitment will be in place for executing the construction, equipping, and
furnishing of the new schools. Finally, some uncertainty remains on the demand for
upper basic education from the targeted groups - disadvantaged rural populations,
and more specifically girls. This uncertainty, however, only affects part of the
expected growth in rural enrollments, since the rest reflects retention in. their
environment of rural students who would otherwise try to enroll in urban schools
(but thereafter often drop out). The project includes a number of measures aimed
at increased participation from the targeted groups: closer schools, boarding and
canteen facilities, provision of textbooks, free of charge or at nominal fee. If,
however, demand did not materialize to the level projected, owing in part to the
changing profile of prospective students (from poorer and more rural areas than the
existing, overwhelmingly urbanized, student popoulation), the project scope could
be curtailed at any moment during implementation, in the context of scheduled
annual review of monitoring indicators.



- 26 -
CHAPTER  IV - AGREMIENTS REACHRED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECONHENDA?IONS
68.   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(i)  no later than December 31, 1991, they would provide, for the Bank review
and approval, a detailed plan for the provision of textbooks (free or
against a nominal user fee) to pupils in all new schools (para. 34).
(ii)  a two-phased study would be carried out to assess the impact of measures
to reduce gender and geographic disparities in access to middle schools.
The first phase would be completed no later than December 31, 1992 and the
second phase would be completed no later than December 31, 1995 (para. 40
and Annex 8).
(iii) carry out the program of development of upper basic education with due
diligence, review progress in carrying out the program against performance
indicators acceptable to the Bank, report to the Bank on this progress by
August 31 of each year, and propose any revisions indicated by the review
to the Bank (para. 25).
<iv)  establish a technical unit in each region, staffed with at least one
architect or technical agent, one engineer and support personnel, prior
to launching bids for the construction of middle schools in that regioni
(para. <3).
(v)   vithin six months of the end of each fiscal year, they would provide to
the Bank an audit report of such scope and details as the Bank may
reasonably request (para. 65).
vi)   As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would satisfy the
conditions of effectiveness of the ADB Loan Agreement (other than
effectiveness of the Bank Loan Agreement).



- 27 -
STAf            
EVOLU WION 0F CROSS PUBLIC SCHOOL ENR0LLMENtS a/
v LUVEL AMD GENOER
(in thousand>
..........................................................................................................................
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/8?    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90
Primary <Grades 1-5)
male      1,329,753  1.405,686  1,48U,104  1,501,678  1,368.230  1,363,428  1,328,271  1,295,335  1,2S6,454  1,268,361
Femate      774,297   832,1S9   892,464    904,057   832,098    839,509   821,156    807,221    795,061    816,744
rota(    2,104,050  2,237,82S  2,3W7,568 2,405,735  2,200,328 2,202,937  2,149,427 2,102,556  2,051,515  2,085,105
Upper 8asic (Grades 6-9)
mate        328,929   351,188    379,487   403,583    439,522    479,958    527,479    575,430    592,608   616,737
Feiate      206,721    224,326    245,264    26S,242    290,193    322,878    360,981    396,495    408,722    425,415
Totat       535,650    575,514    624,751    668,825   7n9,715    802,836    M8,460   971,925  1,001,330  1,042,152
Secondary (Grades 10-12)
male        142,207    158,075    174,358    186,596    185,48?    191,844    192,907    188,627    178,348    179,903
Female       76,282     89,465    103,125    114,690    114,320    118,334    120,710    118,915    111,072    114,944
Total       218,489    247,540    277,483   301,286    299,807   310,178    313,617   307,542    289,420    294,847
Total Bssic Ed4cation (Crades 1-9>
mate      1,658,682  1,756,874  1,864,591  1,905,261  1,807,752  1,843,386  1,855,750  1,870,765  1,849,062  1,885,098
Femate      981,018  1,056,465  1,137,728  1,169,299  1,122,291  1,162,38?  1,182,137  1,203,716  1,203,783  1,242,159
Total     2,639,700  2.813,339  3,002,319 3,074,560  2,930,043  3,005,7M3  3,037,887 3,074,481  3,052,845  3,127,257
Total Basic 8 Secmndary <Grades 1-12)
Mate      1,800,889  1,914,949  2,038,949  2,091,857  1,993,239  2,035,230  2,048,657  2,059,392  2,027,410 2,065,001
Female    1,057,300  1,145,930  1,240,853  1,283,989  1,236,611  1,280,721 1,302,847  1,322,631  1,314,855  1,357,103
Total     2,858,189 3,060,879 3,279,802 3,375,846  3,229,850 3,315,951 3,351,504 3,382,023 3,342,265  3,422,104
EVOLUTION OF PUBLIC SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATES
BT LEVEE
Primary:
Gross          80.32      83.5X      86.62      85.7X      76.7X      75.1X      71.7X      68.6X       65.5%      65.12
Net b/         59.7X      59.52      60.42      63.2X      60.9%      59.2X      56.9%      55.22       54.02      54.52
Upper Basic:
Gross          29.0X      30.32      32.02      33.42      35.62      38.22      41.2X      44.12      44.4X       45.3X
Net b/         16.82      16.3X      17.12      18.52      19.9%      21.82      24.4X      27.42       28.52      30.52
Secondary:
Gross          17.52      19.32      21.12      22.32      21.62      21.7X      21.42      20.42       18.7X      18.62
Net bl          6.9X       7.0o       7.5X       8.0X       8.0X       8.22       8.0X       7.9%       7.5S        8.12
........................................................................ ......................................................................................
a/ incLudins under-age ard over-age students.
b/ excluding under-age and over-age students.
Source: Ministry of Educetion, Amvuatres Statistiques, successive years.



- 28 -
UM= 2
KINGDOM 0F NOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WEEXLY PROCRAN OZ GENERAL UPPER BASIC AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
1989-90
Subjects           Middle School                     Secondary cycle
Grades   6 & 7 8   9   ,   lOil    12   11_   12   Ll   -1,2
Branches                Sc.   LU    Sei-Math   Sci-Experim  LiteraU
Arabic Islamic    6        6     3     6     3     2     3     2     6     6
Studies         2        2     2     2     l     1     l     1     2     2
Social Studies    3        3     2     5     2     2     2     2     5    4
French            6        6     6    6      6     6     6     6     6     6
Mathematies       6        6     7*    3    9*   ll'   7*   8*    2        2
Natural Sciences  2        2     4(   1(1)  Jl    -    5*R   5*9  (l1)
Physical Sciences -        2     51    -    644   8*Ç   512   6 M   -      -
Physical Educ     2        2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2
Art               1        i     -    -      -     -     -     -     -
Feminine Culture or
Intro. to Tech. -        2     -     -     -     -    -            -     -
2nd Foreign Lang  -        -    4(l>  5<1>  4<1>  3(1)  4(1)  3(1)  51l)  5(1)
Islamic Thought &
Philosophy      -        -     -     -     -    3      -     3    2      5
28      32   35   30   34   38    35   38    31   32
Notes:   J  Double periods are indicated in parentheses; e.g., 541) means 5
periods of which one is double period; the equivalent teacher's load
is 6 periods.
W Underlined number of periods, e.g., Z, are taught in 2 groups.
2 * - of which one period is reserved for pedagogic scientifie
activities through French.
ç Periods of the 2nd foreign language in special preparatory classes
are: 7<1.



-29 -
ANNX 3
flUBAI. BMNIC KIIUCATIt DBEOHET   ET
8 WIL9m  uoe
Evolution of Recurrent md Investment Budgets for EducatIon
(DM million current)
..................................................................................................
1984       1985        1986       1987        1968       1989        1990
............................... .................................................................... 
A. RECURRENT SBUET
................
Primry Lavet            1,936.6    2,145.9    2,292.8    2,426.1    2,561.3    3.312.8    3,548.3
(as K total)              35.6K      35.3K       35.1K       35.2K      35.âz       36.1K      34.8K
Secondary Level          2,573.3    2,891.4    3.076.1    3,249.2    3,354.3    4,380.2    4,984.0
<8s K total)              47.3K       47.6K      47.1K       47.2K      46.3K       47.8K      48.9%
Higher Education           933.7    1,042.1    1,167.6    1,211.5    1,331.9    1,476.7    1,654.3
(as K total)             17.2K       17.1 X  17.9%          17.6%      18.4X       16.1X      16.2X
NOE Total                5,443.6    6,079.4    6,536.5    6,886.8    7,247.5    9,169.7   10,186.6
Cus K State buidet)       30.0%      28.6K       29.6K       29.1x      28.8K       31.8K      33.6K
S. INVESTNENT OUGEt
,...............
Pr1mary Level              418.7       462.1      902.2       735.5      695.1       534.3      638.0 ai
(as K total)              32.0%      28.6K       32.4K       29.4%      31.5X       36.7X      43.3X
Secondary Levea            683.2       850.5    1,247.8    1,176.6       913.6       665.7      438.9
(as % total)              52.2X    52.6 X  44.8X   47.0K                41.4X       45.7X      29.8X
Higher Education           206.0       305.3      632.5       592.9      597.3       256.5      398.0
(as K total)             15.8K       18.9%      22.7X       23.7K      27.1K       17.6%      27.0X
MOE Total                1,307.9    1,617.9    2,782.5    2,505.0    2,206.0    1,456.5    1,474.9
(as X State budget)       12.9X    13.2 X  13.6X             12.6%      13.7X       10.5%      10.6X
..................................................................................................
a/ includes transfer to local goverments for construction of primary schoots.
Source: Nintstry of Finance, Loi de Finance, successive years.



- 30 -
ANIIX 4
u amc  oe
.......... ................ 
uvomiOuN  op PRINRY AI u8ECAY
UIENT All IIWsTKElt 81DETS
MS UNIT COST PER  UDEIIT
.. ...... .............  _...................    ........                         ,_...................
1960     1981     19a2     1983     1984      l        1986     1987     198       1989     1990
...................................................................  ....^.....................
BUDGETS (in Dl mittlio  cstt 1980)s
RECURRENT BUDGET:     2.815.1  2,974.4  3,256.6  3.314.1  3,314.0  3.387.6  3.285.7  3,317.0  3"327.1  4,149.4  4,32.3
INVESTNENT BIUGET:      730.0    963.5  1,220.2  1,234.8   803.7   882.7  1,315.8  1.117.5    904.8   647.2    553.1
of which:
PRIMARY              233.8    359.8   430.0   412.4    305.4   310.8   S52.1    429.9   390.9   288.2    32.7 e
SECONDARY            496.2    603.7    790.3   822.4   498.3   572.0    763.6    687.7   513.8   359.1    225.4
TOTAL              3,605.1  3,937.9  4,476.8  4,549.0  4,117.7  4,270.3  4,601.5  4,434.5  4,231.9  4,796.6  4,935.4
UNIT COST (BUDET ALULCATION PEU STUDEIT>) (n ON constant 1980)s
UNIT RECURRENT COST:    1,006      972       993      982    1,026    1,022      980       981      995    1,213      n.a.
UNIT INVESTNT COST:       255       31S      372        A6     249      266       393      330      271      189      n.a.
Of uhich:
PRIIARY               11       161       181     1i        139      141      257       204      191      138     n.a.
SECONDARY              658      733       876      848      484      514      635       537      398      269     n.a.
TOTAL                1,261    1.28W    1,36      1,347    1,275    1.2Q8    1,373    1,311    1,266    1,402      n.a.
........................................................................................................................
a/ inc&udino tranfer to local gowru.t for e truction of pr1.ry shoots.
Source: Nlnistry of Finac, Loi de Finwncs, suceslw  y«s.



- 31 -
LuU 5
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DMVELOPHINT PROJEÇT
8TAFF APPMRSL
Performance Indicators Fox Niddle Schools (Grades 7-9)
Actual   -------------TAR6ETS-------
1989-90  92L-91 92 22-93 93-94 94-95 95_-9
Number of schools                    100    100   100   100  165   250    350
Total enrollments ('000)            51.6   57.2  59.2  65.7 75.4  94.1  115.2
Girl enrollment as a X
of total enrollments             n.a.
Student/teacher ratio               18.5   14.2  15.6  16.6 16.3  16.3   15.1
Promotion rate from grade 6 to 711 62.0   71.0  75.0  75.6 76.1  76.7   77.2
Number of boarding scholarships   7180   6250  7180  7180 7500  8260   9500
Number of boarding scholarships
for girls as a X of total        10.0   15.0  20.0  25.0 30.0  35.0 40.0Oi
sL From grade 5 to 6 in 1989-90.  Starting in September 1990, Grade 6 is part of
primary cycle.
kt This rate would reach 50 X in 1997-98, when the schools bu!lt under the
project operate at almost full capacity.



* 32 -
Page 1 of 2
KINODON OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VWRLD BANK GROUP EDUCATION AND TRAINING LENDING TO NOROCCO
1. First Education Project (Cr. 79-MOR), US$11 million, 1965-1975.  Financed
construction and equipment of 21 secondary schools, including f ive lover
secondary vocational schools, and related technical assistance.
2. Second Education Project (Cr. 266-MOR), US$8.54 million, 1971-1978. Financed
construction and equipment of six lower - and one upper-secondary school teacher
training centers, two vocational training centers, and extensions or equipment
to general and technical secondary schools and to agronomy and forestry
institutes, and related technical assistance and fellovships.
3. Third Education Project (Ln. 1220T-MOR), a third vindow loan of US$25 million,
1976-1984. Financed construction and equipment of 47 primary and five secondary
schools, a lover-secondary teacher training center, also manpover development
in tourism, agriculture and health, and related technical assistance and
fellovships.
4. Fourth Education Project (Ln. 1681-MOR), US$113 million, 1980-1988.  Included
establishment of 11 technical lycées, two institutes of technology, a technical
teacher training institute; provided for extensions to engineering colleges, and
for related technical assistance :.nd pre-investment studies. Project closed on
June 30, 1988.
5. Fifth Education Project (Ln. 2149-MOR), US$50 million, 1983-1989. Included:
the establishment of 40 primary schools and four upper-secondary teacher training
centers; educational aids for 700 primary schools; and related technical
assistance and pre-investment studies. Closing date was extended to March 31,
1989.
6. Education Sector Reform Program Loan (Ln. 2664-NOR), US$150 million, 1986-
1988. Financed a share of public expenditure in education in order to assist
the Government in carrying out reform activities. Closing date: December 31,
1988.
7. Vocational Training Project I (Ln. 2479-MOR), US$27.1 million, 1984-1990.
Supports the establishment of 22 vocational training centers snd related
technical assistance, and strengthening of ministries' capacity in project
analysis and preparation.
8. Vocational Training Project II (Ln. 2779-MOR), US$22.3 million, 1987-1992.
Supports quality improvements in vocational training programs, snd the
rehabilitation of 33 vocational training centers, regional training coordination
units, and related technical assistance.



- 33 -
ANME 6
Page 2 of 2
9. Rural Prlzary Education ProJect (Ln. 3026-MOR)), US$83 million, 1990-1996.
Supports implementation of sustainable expansion and improvement of primary
education in rural areas through increasing access and participation,
particularly for females; improvement of quali-; and strengthening planning,
monitoring and efficiency.



- 34 -
NlEx 7
Page 1 of 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
MaLBSIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE NATIONAL ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (NAfl
The NAP would be placed under the Planning Directorate for Primary and
Secondary Education in the MOE. Assessing achievement constitutes only one
feature of assessing educational processes and systems as these are related to
economie, social and cultural structures. Thus, assessment of the educational
system must be done in relation to the various contexts of the teaching-learning
situations.
Measuring the products of a basic education school system at intervals of
4 years is usually done for subjects such as mathematics, science, and languages.
Thus, it should be possible to test in 4 school subjects (mathematics, science,
Arabic and French) during a 4 year period, starting in 1991-92. Once the system
i8 well-established, the cycle will be repeated after 4 years, and other school
subjects and/or grade levels can be added.  Stratified random sampling of sub-
populations and matrix sampling (rotating items among students) can yield
reliable results and is less costly. A schedule of the activities of the NAP
ts detailed on the next page.
The expected outcomes of the NAP during the period 1991-92 and 1994-95 are
as follows:
1992-93: Lists of operationalized objectives in mathematics and Arabic, with
items, made available to schools, inspectors and teachers. Results of
the mathematics and Arabic pre-tests made available.
1993-94: Reports of the main testing results (mathematics and Arabic) made
available to officials responsible for the educational policy. Lists
of operationalized objectives in science and French, with items, made
available to schools, inspectors and teachers.
1994-95 Reports of the main testing results (science and French) made available
to officials responsible for the educational policy. Secondary analysis
results in mathematics and Arabic made available to responsible
officials.   For example, identification of factors associated with
differences in school achievement; making information available about
the functioning of the selection and orientation processes; etc.
Development of item banks in mathematics and Arabic.



- 35 -
unà 7
Page 2 of 4
Schedule of the Activities of the National Assessment Progurm
1991-92 - 1994-95
91/92       92/93       93/94        94/95
Mathematics             A            B          C.R        SA-IB
(grades 6&9)
Science                             A            B          C.R
(grades 6&9)
Arabic                  A            B          C.R        SA-IB
(grades 6&9)
French                              A            B          C.R
(grades 6&9)
A -   Training staff in curriculum analysis techniques (official or intended
curricula and implemented curricula).
Training staff to write operatioial objectives and items.
Review/analysis of existing item banks in Morocco and/or abroad for the
different school subjects. Writing and pre-testing questions.
B D   Training staff in methods used during surveys.
Analysis of pre-test results, reviewing of the tests and pre-publication
of pre-test results.
Training staff in sampling methods.
Main testing.
C -   Training staff in statistical methods of analysis.
Analysis of main testing results.
R -   Reporting
SA -  Secondary analysis and complementary staff training.
IB -  Training staff in item banking.



- 36 -
ANNE 7
Pa8e 3 of 4
STAFFING AND STAFF TRAINING
Undertaking large-scale educational assessment requires a critlcal mass of
well-trained staff. Initially, it is advisable to identify specialists in the
field of educational measurement who can contribute to NAP activities as advisors
or be recruited uader contract.  Local capabilities for training in the needed
areas should also be explored. It is strongly recommended to appoint one of the
identified specialists as head of the NAP.
In order to launch testing for the 1991-92 school year, the NAP head of the
program should be appointed in the summer of 1991 and the following specialists
should be in place by September 1, 1991:
1 Data analysis specialist, preferably with a university degree in
mathematics;
1 Computer specialist;
4 Educators with experience in teaching mathematics and Arabic in upper
primary grades and in grades 8 & 9;
Should be in place by September 1992:
4 Educators with experience in teaching science and French in upper primary
grades and in grades 8 & 9;
2 Staff with some administrative and educational research experience to be
mainly responsible for the IEA studies.
It is recommended that staff who are reassigned to the NAP to work on the
subject matter sub-studies be selected from among those who have assumed
responsibilities as inspectors or instructors in teacher training institutes,
in addition e_o their teaching of the respective subjects at the designated
levels. Interest in the field of testing, research and analysis is important
as well as commitment to this type of work.
TRAINING NEEDS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Training needs can be met abroad in centers specialized in educational surveys
and aspects relevant to the functions of the NAP. Training in basic skills, e.g.
In writing of test items and statistics, can be done locally. Certain specialized
training can also be given by external specialiste during their visits to monitor
the activities of the NAP in Rabat.
Based on a 4 month external fellowship per trainee, 52 staff-months (s-m) of
external fellowships should be planned along with 26 s-m of local training.



- 37 -
Pas. 4 of 4
In view of the extreme diversity of the tasks which vi}l have to be monitored
and the necessity to have at certain times several experts working simul-
taneously, it is recommended that an institute experienced in the field be
selected to co-monitor the NAP and to provide different specialists in different
fields (curriculum analysis, writing of operational objectives, sampling, test
administration, data analysis, item banking, and advanced statistical analysis,
. ).  It is estimated that a total of 48 s-m of specialists -- 40 s-m for NAP
and 8 s-m for IEA activities) will be needed.
There should be coordination between the NAP and assessment activities in
the Rural Primary Education ProJect including reassignment in the SAP of staff
who complete their assignments in the Project. In case this is not possible,
it vill be necessary to reassign in the NAP and train 4 more staff according to
developing needs in 1994.
EquiDment and Materials
1) Processing nationwide survey data usuêlly requires access to mainframe
computers. Nicro-computers may be used in the transitional period with software
such as the BMDP, SAS, or SPSS, researched for its relevance to the activities
of the NAP before final selection.
2) Desk-top publishing facilities are indispensable because of necessity to
revise materials repeatedly. These include software (such as 'Page-Maker" or
'Ventura") and laser printers.
Estimated Budtet"
Fellowships (external) 52 s-m x $3500/s-m                       $182,000
Specialists  48 s-m x $ 11,000/s-m                              $528,000
IEA meetings travel 6 trips x $2,500/trip                        $15,000
Computers (hardware and software)                                $30,000
Desk-top publishing facilities                                   $80,000
Sub-total                                            $835,000
Local training                                 DH 100,000        $13,000
Miscellaneous including supplies, shipping    DH 500,000         $62,000
Sub-total                          DH 600,000         $75,000
TOTAL in US$                                         $910,000
/Does not include salaries of staff.



- 38 -
ANNEX e
KINGDOM OP MOROCCO
RUIL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EVALUATION 0F THE IMPACT OF FACTORS
AFFECTING SCHOOL PARTICIPATION IN RURAL AREAS
The study will measure the impact on access and retention of variables such
as: proximity of schools, canteen and boarding facilities and scholarships, cost
to families of school materials, school cooperatives, school schedule (long hours
of absence from home, darkness,  ...), transportation, social factors (family
income and size and parents' literacy level), teachers (quality, gender,
attendance record,  ...), etc.   This study completes a similar study to be
undertaken under the Rural Primary Education Project and a sector study currently
underway (to be finished at end 1991).
Schgdule and Samnling
The study needs to be planned for execution in two phases: (a) involving
existing middle schools in rural areas, to be concluded by December 1992; and
(b) involving the middle schools constructed under the project, to be concluded
by December 1994. A plan and a schedule should be developed initially that
include identification and preparation of researcher(s) and assistants;
preparation of instruments, their testing and modification; sampling of schools,
data collection, analysis and report  writing.   In addition to a report on
Phase 2, the final report (December 1995) should include findings, conclusions
and recommendations based on the study as a whole.
Staffing and Estimated Costs
1) Research Leader.- A local or foreign expert who has conducted similar
studies in developing countries. A total of 6 s-m for design, visits,
recruitment, training, cheeking data and analysis, and finalizing
report.
6 s-m x $11,000/s-m -                                         $66,000
2) A total of 12 s-m of local staff for follow-up and leading data
collection   activities,    analysis,    preliminary   report,    and
administration).
12 s-m x $2,000/s-m  -                                        $24,000
3) About 10 research assistants -- possibly graduate s..dents
for interviews and support activities.
2 s-m/year/person or a total of 60 s-m.
60 s-m x $ 500/s-m  -                                         $30,000
4) Equipment and supplies  -                                     $20,000
5) Transport, meals & miscellaneous    -                         $40,000
TOTAL                                                        $180,000



- 39 -
SCHEDULF 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTINATED SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(US$ Million)
IBRD                                      Disbursements
Fiscal Year        Ouarter           Ouarter            lative
FY92               First              2.0              2.0
Second             2.0              4.0
Third              2.0              6.0
Fourth             2.0              8.0
FY93               First              6.0             14.0
Second             6.0             20.0
Third              5.0             25.0
Fourth             5.0             30.0
FY94               First              7.0             37.0
Second             6.0             43.0
Third              7.0             50.0
Fourth             5.0             55.0
FY95               First              5.0             60.0
Second            10.0             70.0
Third              8.0             78.0
Fourth             7.0             85.0
FY96               First              7.0             92.0
Second             8.0            100.0
Third              8.0            108.0
Fourth             7.0            115.0
FY97               First              7.0            122.0
Second             8.0            130.0
Third              8.0            138.0
Fourth             7.0            145.0



- 40 -
KINDOI< OF MOROCCO
LURJJaBASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
STAFP APPRPISAL REPORT
iMPED QATIL SCHEDULI
CY     91   1 92   1 93   1 94   1 95   1 96   1 97
Compoent                      FY el    92        93      94      eS      96      97
Schcol Con truction
Civil Worku                                YX 0O0         0 f      X0OMOC
EquIunmt./Funrfiture=
Educatiouot iater lc=
cmlementar Euivmet                             XmXC
l      I       I
school R habilitation                                       -----
lu-&ervice Trainina
4hQ9,l Seholarohi»                                                        xx _ x
Incrementai Sale                                                  k0or0es  Y
Itituti«z^l Develoymmet_  _
Project Completien - June 30, 1996
Clouirg Date - June 30, 1997



KINGDCH OF tl3XX>
RURAL BASIC EDUCATIIO   DEVEINUT FlSIET
STAFF *P*XSAL EE1'eT
stttwt o rla    aasa OaL C1141
O*ISG                       } M.f. IMo   fATIA.CA
et. **hA
CdhMr i 0...*.".l                                                                                                                                                       -  mi
-1, "- I ff, --O 
ne-j_."    a..v _ - .s.v_
. - .  saJ utc .4. 8*.. t,,t.t.



