Documeut of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIA USE ONl
Repwt No. 12247
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILAr-CONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1991-EC)
AND
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2044-EC)
AUGUST 13, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12247
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1991-EC)
AND
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2044-EC)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            - Sucre (S/.)
US$1 at Appraisal (as per SAR)
- Puerto Ila-Chone (July 7, 1980)        - S/25.00
- Esmeraldas (November 10, 1980)         - S125.00
US$1 at Completion
- Puerto Ila-Chone (June 30, 1991)       - S/1,021.10
- Esmeraldas (December 31, 1991)         - S/1,270.58
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNP         National Development Bank
CONADE      National Development Council
CPE         Esmeraldas Provincial Council
FOCOSA      Community Agro/Livestock Fund
FCNADRI     National Integrated Rural Development Fund
IEOS        Ecuadoran Institute for Sanitation Works
IERAC       Ecuadoran Land Reform and Settlement Institute
INiAP       National Agricultural Research Insitute
NAG         Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MEC         Ministry of Education and Culture
MOP         Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MSP         Ministry of Public Health
MSW         Ministry of Social Welfare
QAS         Organization of American States
PAC         Peasant Agro/Livestock Promotion Organizations
PEU         Project Executing Unit
SEDRI       Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development
SOE         Statement of Expenditures



FOR OFFICAL VSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
OWt. of Dof1rGeft-a~l
Operadum Evahuat
August 13, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE E)MCITITVE DIRECIYRS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Ecuador
Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project (Ln. 1991-EC) and
Esmeraldas Rural Develogment Project (La. 2044EC-)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Ecuador - Ila-Chone Rural
Development Project (Li. 1991-EC) and Esmeraldas Rural Development Project (Li. 2044-EC)
prepared by the Latin America and the Canbbean Regional Office. The Borrower did not
prepare Part IL The PCR provides a detailed and accurate account of the projects'
implementation.
The projects were alike in design and institutional arrangements, and were
appraised, supervised and closed simultaneously. In both projects, the productive and social
targets were achieved or exceeded appraisal expectations.
Substantial beneficiary involvement during preparation and implementation
overcame limited institutional development of the line agencies managing the projects'
components. The eatension component emphasized the organization of women to obtain
financing for income-earning activities.
The economic rates of return have been reestimated at 11 percent compared to
the appraisal estimate of 18 percent for Ila-Chone, and 15 percent compared to appraisal estimate
of 22 percent for Esmeraldas. Overall, the outcomes of the projects are rated as satisfactory, their
sustainability as uncertain and their institutional development as negligible.
The projects may be audited as a cluster with similar projects in the Region.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kapp
Attachment
This document has a restnctd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc * of
their offoicil duties. Its contents may not othierwise be disclosed without WYorld Bank authorizatic ^



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1991-EC)
AND
1SMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2044-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ...................... ***.........* ........**        ..        i
Evaluation SuMmary ......................... i
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..................  1
Project Identity  ..........,............................  1
Background ...............    ............................. ..  1
Project Objectives and Description ...................... 3
Project Design and Organization         ........................  4
Project Implementation ..................................  9
Project Results ....... .................................. 20
Project Sustainability ...................                   21
Bank Performance ...................  22
Borrower Performance  ......       .............          *   23.
Consulting Services .................... .... .... .......... 24
Compliance with Legal Covenants         ......................... 24
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..............  25
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMITION         .................................  26
A. Puerto Ila-Chone (Lu. 1991-EC)
1.  Related Bank Loans *       ................................. 26
2.  Project Timetable ...... ....  ....... e    ....,...o*. 27
3.  Loan Disbursement    .................         .......  28
4.,  Project Implementation ...........................  29
5.  Project Costs and Financing  .........................  30,
6.  Project Results    .........  o.................  32
7.  Status of Covenants .                                    35
8.  Use of Bank Resources ............................ 37
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rOcipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authotization.



B.  Esmeraldas (Ln. 2044-EC)
1. Related Bank Loans   . .................. ....         39
2.  Project Timetable .........................*,. 41
3. Loan Disbursement ............................ 42
4.  Project Implementation  ............................  43
5.  Project Costs and Financing  ......................... 44
6.  Project Results ...     .............. .........  46
7. Status of Covenants  ............................  50
8.  Use of Bank Resources .........................*.  52
MAPt IBRD 15618
IBR'D 15300R



PROJECT EOMPLETION REMOIT
PUERTO IIA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1991-EC)
AND
ESMNRALDAS RURAL DEVELOPZEWT PROJECT
(LOAN 2044-XC)
Preface
1.        This is a combined Project Comp?etton Report (PCR) for two projects
in Ecuador: the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project for which Loan
1991-EC in the amount of US$20.0 million was approved on May 12, 1981; and the
Esmeraldas Rural Development Project for which Loan 2044-EC in the amount of
US$17 million was approved on July 21, 1981. Both projects were re-evaluated
in April, 1985 without subsequent change to their design or concept. However,
the loan amount for Puerto Ila-Chone was reduced to US$16.9 million and for
Esmeraldas to US$16.1 million in August, 1985. Puerto Ila-Chone was closed on
June 30, 1991, 3 years behind schedule, with disbursement applications being
accepted until December 31, 1991. The final disbursement was made on November
13, 1991 and the undisbursed balance of US$1.2 million was cancelled on that
date. Esmeraldas was closed on December 31, 1991, also 3 years behind
schedule, with disbursement applications being accepted until June 30, 1992.
The final disbursement was made on May 15, 1992 and the undisbursed balance of
US$0.253 million was cancelled on May 16, 1992.
2.        Both operations were part of an extensive program of rural
development projects (Bank and other) initiated by the Ecuadorian Government
in the late 1970s. They were markedly similar in design and institutional
arrangements, long-treated as twin projects and were supervised
simultaneously, presenting an opportunity to make a comparitive analysis of
their implementation and outcome. Parts I and III were prepared by the
Agricultural Division of Country Department IV of the Latin America and
Caribbean Regional Office. They are based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and interviews. The PCR drew extensively on
a detailed consultant evaluation carried out in 1990, and benefitted from
other consultant studies and a Borrower's Completion Report on Puerto
Ila-Chone. Part I was sent to the Borrower for comment in June, 1992, but no
response has been received.



- 1ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUERTO ZLA-CIONK RURAL DEVELO2MEWT PROJECT
(LOAN 1991-EC)
AND
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
;     (LOAN 2044-XC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Obiectives
1.        The Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldss Rural Development Projects were
part of an extensive program of such projects, Bank and other, initiated in
the mid-1970s by the Ecuadoran Government and implemented in the 1980s. They
were markedly similar in design and institutional arrangements, were long-
treated as twin projects and were supervised simultaneously.
2.        Agriculture has traditionally been the dominant sector of the
Ecuadoran sconomy which grew at about 52 per annum in the two decades up to
the mid 1970s chiefly from the expansion of agricultural export crops such as
coffee, cocoa, bananas and sugar. The petroleum boom of 1972 and four-fold
oil export price increase of the following year caused a rapid expansion of
the economy and per capita GDP.  However, agriculture lagged other sectors and
food production stagnated, due to the Government's lack of appropriate
policies and programs. By the mid 1970s, the Government recognized the need
for public agricultural services and infrastructure but required extensive
tutoring on how to formulate and deliver a comprehensive national RD program,
especially given the multiplicity of weak, poorly coordinated and diversely
funded institutions in the subsector. The institutional problem prompted the
Government's creation in 1980 of a new Secretariat for Integrated Rural
Development (SEDRI), a coordinating body reporting directly to the President,
but lacking any executive powers (paras. 2-7).
3.        Project Objectives.  Both projects used a classic, multi-sectoral
RD approach to improving the incomes and standard of living of farm families
in the project areas, benefitting 10,000 families and 5,100 families in the
case of Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas respectively. Other important
objectives were stated to be institution building and employment creation.
These objectives were to be achieved through the following actions:
(a) productive components, including (i) agricultural extension; (ii)
short, medium and long-term agricultural credit for working capital
and investment; and (iii) a land ownership legalization program;
(b) infrastructure, including a road construction and improvement
program, bridge construction, purchase of equipment, and
implementation of a road and br'dge maintenance program.



- iv -
(c) social components com2rising (i) a primary medical care program
including construction of health facilities, training of medical
workere, a nutrition program, and water supply and sanitation
systems; and (iiI) strengthening of school facilities and staffing.
Esmeraldas also included construction of administrative, marketing and
community centers, and a feasibility study for a follow-on RD project in
Esmoraldas province. There were no specific inastitution-building actions in
either project.
mpleuentsation Esperience
4.        These projects conformed in scope and scale to the Bank's then-
standard RD model, took nine years to implement and were troubled throughout.
Execution began to improve after 1986 when responsibility for RD vas
transferred from SEDRI, whose poor leadership, and lack of executing powers
and political influence in the bureaucracy had rendesred it ineffective, to the
MKanistry of Social Welfare (MSW). The principal issues of implementation
were: (a) chronic counterpart funding shortages caused by fluctuating
political commitment to RD, recession and ecoaomic austerity programs, and a
series of natural disasters; (b) the dislocation of the implementation
schedule for the productive and social components caused by gross delays in
road and bridge construction; and (c) profound institutional deficiencies
which were not addtessed at their source, and which the projects
organizational arrangements could not surmount (paras. 14-19, and 25). The
following summarizes component implementation:
5.        AUricultural Extension.  Progress up to 1986 on the technology
transfer program was mediocre due to inadequate personnel and salaries, lack
of conceptual definition and clear objectives, poor access to many communities
due to transportation shortages and prolonged delays in road/bridge
construction, and institutional bias on the part of SEDRI towards the social
components. Content and coverage improved following the decision by MSW in
1987 to contract extension (and other) specialists directly through the Inter-
American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA). However, extension
tended to concentrate almost exclusively on the recipients of credit,
functioning as a direct complement to credit rather than an autonomous,
broadly based service, which limited the attention paid to technical problems
of annual and perennial crops and hence their productivity. A notable
achievement was the development of farmer organizations including several
capable of delivering extension, marketing and community assistance (paras.
27-30).
6.        Credit.  Credit proved to be a critical determinant of improved
standard of living, although it reached barely 33X and 65% respectively, of
its targeted beneficiaries under Puerto Ila-Chone and ESmeraldas. The most
striking feature of the credit programs was the polarization of demand towards
livestock investments, in contrast to credit feasibility studies at appraisal
which predicted strong demand for the replacement and rehabilitation of
perennial crops. The reasons included: (a) declining profitability for
perennial crops; (b) the perception that crops re se were a risky investment;
(c) terms and conditions of project credit which favored livestock; and



(d) livestock was a traditional activity in the mixed farming systems in both
project areas (paras. 31-35).
7.        Land Tltlane.  Land titling progressed slowly due to operational
and financial difficulties in the Ecuadoran Institvte for Agrarian Reform and
Colonization (IERAC), and farmer aversion to the US$60/ha fee charged by
IERAC, a substantial sum on holdings averaging 35 ha. Improved funding after
1986 and agreement on a mechanism to permit the use of medium-term credit for
title fees, resulted in titling targets being achieved under both projects
(paras. 36-37).
8.        Roads and Bridaes.  Road and bridge construction was central to the
ability of both projects to achieve their productive and social targets due to
che inaccessability of major portions of both areas, especially in the long
rain:- season. The history of road and bridge construction under both projects
was a litany of woes caused by: (a) complete lack of interest and sheer
incompetence on the part of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP); (b) constant
bureaucratic, legal and procurement difficulties, and seasonal limitations on
the timing of construction; and (c) counterpart funding shortages. Execution
picked up after 1986 when MOP relinquished its role to MSW, and improved
greatly after 1988 under a new Government and strong leadership in MSW. All
targets were reached by closing, a tremendous achievement (28-31).
9.        Social Com,onents.  The key limitations on the social component
were: (a) delayed execution of most works, but especially sanitation and
potable water; 'b) the imba.;nce between infrastructure and funds available
for its staffing, equipping and operation, with health and education being of
most concern; (c) unevenness in the geographic coverage of services; (d) the
lack of monitoring and evaluation of project-related social indicators; and
(e) the under-utilization or even abandonment of community centers built in
Esmeraldss due to greater beneficiary interest in marketing centers. All
social targets were achieved or exceeded. The consensus is that social
service development notably Improved beneficiaries' standard of living and
that services now available are superior to those in most rural areas of
Ecuador (paras. 43-46).
Results
10.       Project objectives were largely achieved.  While the immediate
impact of project investments on standard of living is readily apparent in
both cases, the potential benefits in the future could be substantial. Among
the more important results were: (a) successful beneficiary organization for
commercial and community purposes; (b) road and bridge construction had rapid
and positive effects in reducing isolation, facilitating access to social
services and increasing marketing activity; (c) the emergence of a small
farmer entrepreneurial class, and upsurge of better-organized export activity
in plantain (in Puerto Ila-Chone); and (d) greater flexibility in the National
Development Bank's lending posture towards small farmers. Limited available
yield data from farmers who adopted technology packages confirm the productive
potential of both project areas).   The recalculated economic rate of return
is 112 for Puerto Ila-Chone (compared to 182 at appraisal), and 14.62 for
Esmeraldas (compared to 22Z at appraisal) (paras. 60-64).



- vi -
11.       Eaironment.  The risk of adverse onvironmental effects was quite
high and the problems of monitoring and controlling resource and input use in
a frontier setting were acknowledged during the internal review process. No
formal environmental impact assessment was done in either area, and there were
no legal covenants on the environment. The SARs called for the dissemination
of soil conservation and re-forestation practices through the extension
program. Extensive de-forestation occurred in both areas but it is not clear
that it was caused directly by the projects as opposed to what would have
happened due tot (a) public policies which encourage de-forestation; (b) weak,
unenforced environmental laws; (c) the natural evolution of farming systems in
virgin areas; and (d) road construction. The Bank's somewhat fatalistic
stance was imprudent and could have been partly retrieved by a mid-term
evaluation and dialogue development with the Borrower. A similar situation is
unlikely to recur given the Bank's current policies and practices on the
environment (paras. 47-52).
Sustainabilltv
12.       An important issue not addressed until very late was the transition
to the post-project period. Final supervision of both projects in late 1991
resulted in certain understandings on interim actions. First, the longer-term
sustainability of agricultural production services requires most urgently,
that Ministry of Agriculture (MAO) research, extension, marketing and
organizational specialists re-establish a presence in both areas (having been
largely marginalized under new institutional arrangements since 1986).
However, transitional plans have yet to be submitted to the Bank. Second, on
the matter of road maintenance, various arrangements were discussed including
the involvement of farmer organizations. It was generally agreed that
substantial and well-defined sources of funding were imperative. The Bank is
still waiting for draft maintenance plans and budgets from MSW. Sustainability
therefore remains a pressing and unresolved issue. The imminent change of
government and new leadership in MSW makes the outlook uncertain
(paras. 65-67).
Conclusions and Lessons Learnt
13.       Lessons for the Bank.  These projects were not blueprints for the
alleviation of rural poverty and in key respects they demonstrated the
weaknesses of the standard area development model. Nevertheless, they
provided valuable lessons of design and exec -n, many of which have already
been internalized in the Bank and reflected in the new generation of RD in
Ecuador, PRONADER (Ln.3390-EC). These lessons weres (a) the need for close
linkage, carefully coordinated timing of execution and thorough understanding
of the likely interaction of infrastructure and productive/social components;
(b) centralized execution (as occurred after 1986), while effective, caused
the isolation of sectoral agencies to which responsibility for project works
and services would devolve; the solution is simpler projects, fewer agencies
and an institutional plan of action to improve their implementing capacity;
(c) sustainability actions need to be designed, programmed, financed and
supervised as an essential final phase of implementation; (d) funding and
manpower allocated to the functioning of project infrastructure must not be



- vii -
subordinated to its construction; (e) supervision missions may not have the
capacity to solve chronic counterpart funding problems, which require senior
management intervention at the country level; (f) the availability of
dedicated, well-trained staff and optimal performance depends directly on
salaries offeredg the Bank's calls for Improved institutional performance are
unrealistic while public service salaries remain so low; (8) beneficiary
organizations should be developed early on, evolve with the project, and be
supported by increasingly formal technical assistance as they mature; (h)
credit was an indispensable catalyst to development under both projects; terms
and conditions should encourage balanced allocation, and credit programs
should evolve flexibly; and (i) draft monitoring and evaluation plans must be
available by appraisal, the final system in place by negotiationa, and
implementation closely supervised (para. 69).
14.       Lessons for the Borrower.  The 00E needs above all, to develop
systematically the technical, managerial and financial capabilities of RD
agencies especially MAG, improve the mechanisms and incentives for inter-
agency cooperation, and streamline legal and administrative procedures. Much
greater emphasis is needed on human capital development. Current public
service salaries for well-trained professionals are incompatible with
dedicated, high quality performance, or for that matter, their retention.
Finally, the Government needs to explain its RD policies and clans to involved
agencies and the public, and actively encourage their cooperation and
involvement. The potential role of the private sector in the delivery of
agricultural services merits examination (para. 71).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHOWN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1991-EC)
AND
ESNERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2044-EC)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FRQM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
Projegt Identity
1.  Project Names: Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project; and
Esmeraldas Rural Development Project
Loan Numbers:   1991-EC and 2044-EC
RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
Country:        Ecuador
sector:         Agriculture
Backtround
2.        The Puerto Ila-Chone and Femeraldas Rural Development projects were
initiated and prepared in the latter half of the 1970s and implemented in the
1980s. They were of similar design and institutional arrangements, were lnng-
treated as twin projects and were supervised simultaneously. The following is
a synopsis of the environment in which both projects evolved.
3.         Agriculture has traditionally been the dominant sector of the
Ecuadoran economy in terms of contribution to GDP, overall returns generated,
and the proportion of the total labour force it employs. In the two decades
up to the early 1970s, Ecuador's economy had grown at about 5% per annum,
mainly from the expansion of agricultural export crops such as cacao, coffee,
bananas and sugar. The petroleum boom of 1972 and four-fold oil price
increase in 1973 made Ecuador the beneficiary of sudden and very large export
earnings, causing, inter alia, a rapid rLse in per capita GNP. However, the
rate of economic expansion was uneven between sectors. The agricultural
sector lagged due to the Government's lack of a coherent program to promote
its development, and long-standing import substitution policies which favored
the Industrial sector and urban populations at the expense of agriculture.
The traditional, export-oriented nature of Ecuadoran agriculture was unable to
respond to high population growth and rising incomes in urban areas, and food
production stagnated.
4.        By the mid 1970s, the Government came to recognize that increased
food production required greater emphasis on the development of new
technology, more farm-level technical guidance, better methods of agricultural
organization, and more agricultural pricing and marketing incentives. However,
the gap was immense between the Government's awareness of these shortcomings,
and its capacity to both formulate the policy guidance and deliver the public
agricultural services needed. Efforts by the Bank and other bilateral
institutions to promote an understanding of the basic elements of rural



development (RD) had encountered a general lack of zeal in the Government to
tackle a comprehensive national program. Further, many agencies were involved
in RD, mostly uncoordinated, employing different methodst handling funds of
diverse origin and frequently competing with each other. The Ministry of
Agriculture (HAG) was an especially weak element in the sectoral picture.
5.        The 1980s were beset by economic and natural crises which impacted
adversely on the agricultural sector. The financial crisis in 1982 resulting
from declining petroleum output and a rapid increase in the public sector
deficit financed by external borrowing, obliged the Government to implement
severe austerity measures, which, combined with tremendous flood damage to
infrastructure from the El Nino climatic phenomenon, provoked recession in
1983, a 14X drop in agricultural production and a sharp decline in public
investment in the agricultural sector right at the time implementation of
Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas was getting underway. Major droughts in 1985
and 1987/88 again suppressed agricultural production. Finally, the earthquake
of 1987 cut the main oil pipeline, with serious effects on oil export
revenues, a struggling economy and government resources.
6.        Several other elements form part of the background to these
projects. First, the political and economic dichotomy resulting from the
historical rivalry between the Costa and Sierra regions, in a system where the
Government turns over every four years and each administration has little more
than three years to implement its policies, had (and still has) powerful
effects on official commitment to development projects reflected in budget
allocations, institutional stability and project sustainability. The Puerto
Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas projects, both of which were in the Costa, witnessed
seven administrations from preliminary identification in 1975 to closing in
1991. Second, when these projects were prepared, the integrated rural
development project was an ascendant methodology in the Bank and other major
bilateral lending bodies, and Ecuador's financing capacity appeared secure.
Ecuador presented compelling rural poverty arguments- justifying such
lending and three RD projects, of which the Tungurahua Rural Development
Project (Ln.1644-EC)l' approved in December, 1978 was the first, were
developed in rapid succession. By the early 1980s, Ecuadoran oil revenues
were dwindling and the Bank's three RD operations became de facto competitors
for increasingly scarce counterpart funds. This coincided with the
recognition in the Bank of the importance of the macreconomic context of
investment projects, the development of structural and sectoral adjustment
lending instruments, and a second, more critical look at the Bank's standard
area development projects, which had proliferated in the LAC region.
7.          Finally, in 1980 the new Government of Ecuador (GOE) established
a Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development (SEDRI) as national coordinator
of RD, reporting directly to the President. SEDRI was complemented by
creation of the Integrated Rural Development Fund (FONADRI) through which
1/ Country arguments were also pursuasive, given that Ecuador was a
somewhat late entry into RD lending in the Reg'on.
2/ See Project Completion Report No. 10429, March 17, 1992.



- 3 -
SEDRI would allocate counterpart resources to the RD projects under its
control, (which by the early 1980. numbered seveuteen). This relatively
advantageous position (similar to institutional arrangements for RD in Brazil,
Mexico and Peru), was expected to surmount intractable problems of
institutional coordination in RD project planning and implementation. The
Bank welcomed its creation, given the frustrations at that time of working
with the Ministry of Agriculture and the wider bureaucracy. However, SEDRI
took several years to settle in, had no executive powers, little influence in
the established bureaucracy, and a leadership (until 1985) unsympathetic to
Bank RD projects. SEDRI's role was amplified in 1985 to include project
execution, a role which it was unable to develop. SEDRI was absorbed in early
1986 by the Ministry of Social Welfare (MSW), which, following considerable
disruption, was able to reinvigorate project implementation. Dramatic
progress was made from 1988 with the appointment of a dynamic new Subsecretary
of Rural Development in MSW; both projects largely achieved their objectives
demonstrating above all, the crucial importance in Ecuador of commitment and
leadership, inputs over which the Bank can have little control.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
8.        Objectives  Both projects used a classic, multi-sectoral RD
approach to improving the incomes and standard of living of rural families in
the projec; areas, benefitting 10,000 families in Puerto Il-Chone and 5,100
families in Esmeraldas. Other important objectives were stated to be: (a)
institution-building, by strengthening SEDRI, building up MAG extension
services and promoting coordination among involved agencies; and (b)
employment benefits for farmers and landless families, to result from
agricultural development programs.
9.        DescriDtion.  The core components of both projects were broadly
similar, but Esmeraldas' scope was wider. Both projects included:
(a) productive components made up of (i) an agricultural extension
program; (ii) the provision of short, medium and long-term
agricultural credit for working capital and investment; and (iii)
implementation of a land ownership legalization program (affecting
3,400 producers and 2,050 producers respectively, in the case of
Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas);
(b) infrastructure, including a road construction and improvement
program (215 km and 230 km of feeder roads respectively, in the
case of Puerto Ila-chone and Esmeraldas), purchase of equipment and
implementation of a maintenance program; Esmeraldas also included
the construction of two bridges, the largest of which (100 meters)
would span the Guayllabamba river; and
(c) social components comprising (i) a primary medical care program
including construction of health facilities, training ot medical
workers, a nutrition program, and water supply and sanitation
systems; and (ii) strengthening of school facilities and staffi ng.



- 4 -
Esmeraldas also included the construction of administrative, marketing and
community centers; and the execution of a feasibility study for a follow-on RD
project in esmeraldas Province.
Project DesRim and Organization
10.       Projoct Conceot.  The conceptual foundation of both projects lay in
the Bank's own integrated rural development model, i.e. a program of
complementary agricultural, infrastructural, and social services designed to
improve the productivity and wellbeing of a target group of poor farmers
living in areas largely devoid of such services. The Bank's overall RD
strategy at this time envisaged a decentralized, regional approach,
coordinated by a high-level, well-funded, rural development unit. Substantial
efforts were planned to strengthen the management and implementation
capabilities of the agricultural public sector which was seen as the principal
obstacle to the efficient preparation and execution of projects.31 The
Puerto Ila-Chone Project Brief (May 1, 1980) states that new RD projects in
Ecuador would not only be faced with weak public sector capacity, but "very
much geared to institution-building." However, neither project contained any
specific actions to improve the institutional capacity of implementing
agencies.
11.       Innovation.  These projects contained several innovative features:
(a) Esmeraldas benefitted from substantial community involvement in its
preparation and an excellent local team to the extent that it can be described
as a genuine grass roots effort; (b) both projects attempted to deliver medium
and long-term credit to small-scale farmers41; (c) the extension component of
both projects emphasized (in theory) the organization of women to obtain
financing for income-earning activities. There was no attempt to induce
farmers to change established land use or cropping patterns. Such a course
might have proved disastrous in any case, given the delays in roads
construction (paras. 38-41), while roads per se could be expected to provide
the opportunity for diversification. The farm models in both cases focussed
on traditional perennial crops (coffee, cocoa, bananas and plantain). Perhaps
a more creative approach, particularly in the case of Esmeraldas, might have
considered planned roads development and better access to the port of
Esmeraldas and major marketing and export centers of Quito and Santo Domingo
de los Colorados, as an opportunity to encourage diversification (initially on
a pilot basis) into fruits, flowers and vegetables.
12.       Justification.  The overriding justification for both projects was
the existence of fairly large communities of poor farmers living in conditions
of isolation and obvious deprivation. Settlement derived from spontaneous
colonization beginning in the 1950s in the Puerto Ila-Chone area and somewhat
later in Esmeraldas, resulting from demographic and climatic pressures in
3I Staff Appraisal Reports: Puerto Ila-Chone, Report No.3278-EC, para.
1.11; and Esmeraldas, Report No.3439-EC, para. 1.11.
4/ Defined as those farmers with total net assets, including land, not
exceeding US$30,000 equivalent.



- 5 -
other regions. Mixed, lo-yield farming systems and livestock predominated on
what in many cases were comparatively large parcels.1'  Both areas lacked
basic services and infrastructure, especially rcads and bridges, health and
sanitation, and education. Substantial parts of both project areas were
impassable during the long rainy season, impeding normal communications, the
development of extension services and the marketing of farm produce. The
widespread existence of improperly titled land, especially in Puerto Ila-
Chone, prevented access to credit. The choice and development of Puerto Ila-
Chone, however, was clearly prompted by its intricate linkages to the planned
Puerto Ila-Chone Highway under the Fifth Highways Project (Ln. 1429-EC)
(para.20).
13.       ScoDe and Scale.  The scope and scale of both projects were
consistent with similar Bank RD projects at that time, but were clearly over-
ambitious in the Ecuadoran context and entailed all the risks which are now
well-recognized e.g., the complexity of the coordination task, the
vulnerability to delay and dislocations of phasing, and questionable
sustainability.
14.       Oraanization and Manatement. As with most Bank-financad
agricultural operations in Ecuador, management was entrusted to special
Project Executing Units (PEU), situated within SEDRI, with sufficient
operational, financial and administrative autonomy to execute the projects,
but no decision-making authority. Their structure was complex and they were
to receive considerable long-term consultant technical support. Establishment
of the Puerto Ila-Chone UEP was difficult and delayed, in marked contrast to
Esmeraldas. It is recorded that some Ecuadoran officials did not favour such
units because their autonomy was not well-regarded by other agencies, and that
once Bank participation ceased, they were often dismantled, to the detriment
of the project. However, the need for PEUs was dictated by the serious
structural and operational problems within MAG and the consensus is that they
performed very well, with the exception of institutional coordination in
Puerto Ila-Chone where the need to coordinate local offices in three provinces
proved too much for the PEU to handle effectively. Implementation was the
responsibility of specialized agencies,-/ whose active participation would be
ensured through subsidiary implementation agreements signed with SEDRI.
5/   A majority of project beneficiaries (both projects) had parcels in the
20-50 ha range. A higher percentage of parcels in Puerto Ila-Chone exceeded
50 ha.
6/  MAG and the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP) would
cooperate on extension, forestry and farmer organization; National Development
Bank (BNE) with MAG collaboration, on credit; Ecuadoran Land Reform and
Settlement Institute (IERAC) on titling; Ministry of Public Works (MOP) on
road and bridge corstruction; Ministry of Public Health (MSP), health care
program; Ecuadoran Institute for Sanitation Works (IEOS), health posts, water
supply and sanitation facilities; Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), the
school program; farmer organizations would operate the marketing centers with
assistance from the extension service.



- 6 -
15.       The implementation of both projects experienced two distinct
institutional periods--SEDRI (1980-86) and MSW (1986 to closing)--whose
markedly different conceptual and operational approaches had a significant
impact on progress. SEDRI's mandate was limited to the programming,
preparation and coordination of RD project activities, while MBS was entrusted
with direct execution and considerable autonomy. SEDRI, which had no
substantive role in the preparation of either Puerto Ila-Chone or Esmeraldas,
was obliged to work with implementing ministries and agencies along very
traditional RD lines, since no actions were taken to innovate them
structurally or methodologically.21 Subsidiary agreements signed with each
were, in many cases, quite ineffective in coopting their full involvement or
even their interest, as illustrated graphically by the performance of MOP.
SEDRI's closeness to the office of the President had little practical meaning,
and it was treated by the established bureaucracy as a Darvenu.
16.       The issue of leadership and personality was also impoitant.  The
Director of SEDRI (until 1985) was undeniably devoted to RD but his experience
was in the smaller scale, community-based methodologies frequently employed
(effectively) by NG0s; evidence suggests that he was averse philosophically
to large, integrated and comparitively expensive projects which he defined as
colonization, not RD, and that he had problems with the definition of
targetted beneficiaries, principally the size of many holdings in the project
area. As a result, SEDRI's project funds allocation (at least in the early
years) showed a clear social bias to the detriment of productive components
(especially extension) and disbursements. SEDRI did attempt however, to give
priority to feeder roads, especially for access to the most remote
communities, but was foiled by the inaction of MOP.
17.       The transfer of responsibility for RD to MSW in early 19861'
produced considerable improvement due to MSW's executive authority, ability to
assume the responsibilities of other implementing agencies where necessary and
avoid coordination obstacles, and the strengthening of its own structure in
terms of staffing and budget at the central and PEU levels. This change in
the rate and quality of implementation saved both projects from early closing,
a course of action being urged in the Bank in 1987 for all three RD projects
in Ecuador. Project execution took a quantum leap in 1988 with the
appointment of a dynamic new Subsecretary of Rural Development in MSW, whose
commitment to RD, effectiveness and ingenuity reversed the fortunes of both
projects. Prom an institutional standpoint, however, the centralization of
responsibilities in MSW had negative implications for the specialized agencies
especially at the local level. Their marginalization from the implementation
process and the continued failure to address their internal failings caused an
institutional vacuum with the potential to jeopardize future project
7/ M. Carroll and Associates Ltd., Ecuador - Provectos DRI Puerto Ila-Chone
v Ouininde. Evaluacion de ImDacto, Ottawa, January 1991. Referred to in the
text as EPDRI.
8/   SEDRI was incorporated into MSW with its original structure, whi h was
then steadily modified by internal reassignments of responsibility and
function to become the new Subsecretariat for Rural Development.



sustainability, since responsibility for project infrastructure and services
would devolve to those same institutions./
18.       A positive, compensating development from weak local institutional
capacity was the conversion of major farmer organizations into enterprises for
the delivery of certain services, e.g., extension, marketing and roads
maintenance. The consensus is however, that these bodies have major
deficiencies including excessive bureaucracy, poor management and accounting
capacity, and constant labor relations problems. EPDRI cites the need for
such organizations to receive increasingly formalized and intensive technical
assistance from their establishment onwards.
19.       What are the institutional lessons?  With hindsight, efficient
coordination and implementation of RD emerges from systematic analysis of the
political and bureaucratic environment of implementing agencies, and the
incentives and pressures affecting their commitment and performance, including
at the local level. MOP, for example, was intrinsically more interested in
major highway systems than feeder roads in rural areas, in part because MOP
had no control over the budget for feeder roads, which was provided directly
by the central government to the provincial councils. In any case, the
identification and selection of potential road ventures by MOP and the
provincial councils was heavily influenced by the demands of pressure groups
such as the logging companies.1'  In the case of MAG, poor salaries,
training and professional incentives were symptomatic of a general
bureaucratic malaise with far-reaching public policy and budget implications.
Nevertheless, HAG remains the principal agricultural institution in Ecuador
and its failings cannot be bypassed indefinitely by temporary organizational
arrangements for individual projects. Clearly, simpler projects involving a
limited number of agencies should be the rule in Ecuador, and projects with
stated institutional objectives must (and now do) include institutional plans
of action that address specific gaps.  There was a tacit assumption underlying
both projects that coordination improvements would translate into improved
institutional capacity, whereas in practice the Bank quickly realized that
SEDRI was merely another problematic, and relatively powerless layer in the
bureaucracy.
20.       Prolect Initiation and Prenaration.  Both projects were
preliminarily identified in 1975 by a Bank mission exploring the possibilities
of RD in Ecuador. The basis for the development of Emeraldas was a four-year
study of the Esmeraldas river basin carried out by the Ecuadoran Water
Resources Institute (INERHI) and the Organization of American States (OAS).
Among five projects identified within the basin, the Government proposed to
the Bank the development of the "Zona Quadrangular" an area of about 150,000
ha north of Santo Domingo de los Colorados and east of Quininde.-L' Project
9/  M. Carroll and Associates Ltd., o. cit.
10/ Working Paper, May 28, 1981.
11/ The name of the canton in Esmeraldas province in which the project was
located, and the name frequently used for the project in documertation.



- 8 -
preparation was executed by an inter-agency group directed by MAG, with the
participation of the OAS and the FAO/CP.
21.       Puerto Ila-Chone was seen from its conception as complementary to
the construction of the Puerto Ila-Chone Highwayr' which had been included
in a highways master plan of Ecuador prepared under the Second Highways
Project (Ln.379-EC and Credit 51-EC). The RD project was the direct outcome
of the need to increase agricultural production as a benefit supporting and
justifying the highway. The Fourth Highways Project (Ln.1231-EC) provided
funding for the road and RD feasibility studies. Funds for preparation of the
RD project were channeled through the National Pre-Investment Fund (FONAPRE)
and after many delays, studies were completed by a consortium of consulting
firms, supervised by MAG, the Planning Board and FONAPRE representatives.
22.       Esmeraldas had a number of advantages over Puerto Ila-Chone in its
situation, preparation and prospects. The Esmeraldas project area was smaller
(110,000 ha), with more undulating terrain, a core network of reasonable
quality all weather roads giving access to about half of it, and potentially
better conditions for the promotion of farmer organizations, extension and
credit. (Nevertheless, Esmeraldas also contained several zones which remained
on the margins of project development until the very end, owing to three large
rivers, the Guayllabamba, Blanco and Canande which were simultaneously,
important access routes and natural barriers to zonal integration).   Much of
the area was more recently settled with younger, better-maintained plantations
more amenable to improved technology, rehabilitation and an earlier production
response to improved services. Preparation of Esmeraldas benefitted from
community involvement, a strong local team, a genuine grass-roots concept and
few problems with establishment of the PEU. A recurrent theme in accounts of
both projects by former project staff, is that Esmeraldas was prepared by
agriculturalists and community developers, and Puerto Ila-Chone, by engineers.
23.       Main Issues of Prelaration.  The principal issues of preparation
were the following: (a) Government commitment waxed and vaned and by early
1980 it was not even clear whether the GOE wanted the projects; (b)
preparation was exceedingly slow despite every assistance from the Bank--MAG,
then lead agency for RD, was the principal handicap; (c) there were far too
many agencies (domestic and international) involved in RD, and coordination
was abysmal, a situation which SEDRI was created to overcome; (d) a high
percentage of the settlers, especially in Puerto Ila-Chone, had illegal or no
land titles, on which many future project actions would hinge, and important
up-front commitments were needed from IERAC; (e) the prospect of political
change in 1980 (return to democratic Government) caused the bureaucracy to
slow even further; considerable dislocation followed in the aftermath as
policies were formulated and agencies shaken out; and (f) the heralded
12/ The planned Puerto Ila-Chone Highway was over-designed relative to
traffic projections and was scaled down to what later became the Doblone-
Puerto Ila penetration road. Its construction was dogged by disaster,
encountering unfavourable soil conditions after initiation, followed by heavy
El Nino rains, then business failure of the contractor. The road was
scrapped.



- 9 -
establishment of SEDRI caused MAG to lose interest in project preparation,
which in turn meant that by 1980: (i) neither MAG nor BNP had begun reviewing
the agriculture, forestry and related credit and extension components; (ii)
IERAC had not started the land tenure survey proposed by the Bank; and (iii)
MOP and NAG had not carried out the recommended field work to define routes
and tentative costs for feeder roads.
24.       The Roads Issue in Proiect Desitn . Road and bridge development
was central to the achievement of project objectives. Common sense suggests
that road and bridge construction should have preceded other components either
as a first phase or free-standing operation-L1 and that in all likelihood
much agricultural development would have followed spontaneously. Both
projects combined had the critical mass and cost (about US$28.0 million
including contingencies) for such an approach. Preparation and appraisal of
the roads components was characterised by: (a) Government indecision about
Bank financing, appropriate quality standards, and optimal location of
proposed works; (b) lack of an adequate inventory of existing roads and of
aerophotography and cartographic mapping, which hindered reliable assessment
of the existing situation; and (c) protracted and inconclusive efforts to
carry out studies and determine costs, a situation only aggravated by the
rapid deterioration in MOP's planning, managerial and operational capability
following the leadership transition in 1980. Almost two years were lost at
the outset of project execution in both cases while road and bridge studies
and designs were undertaken, activities which should have been resolved at the
latest by negotiations (and ideally by appraisal). To some extent the Bank's
wish not to delay loan processing any further contributed to the components'
partial state of readiness, but to a great extent shifting circumstances and
MOP incompetence undermined any notion of adherance to a schedule. The Bank
believed it had sufficient designs for the first construction year. The SARs
indicate that engineering designs were under execution for 60 km out of 240 km
of feeder roads in the case of Esmeraldas, and completed for 114 km out of 215
km in the case of Puerto Ila-Chone.
Proiect Imnlementation
25.       Project effectiveness (January 26, 1983) was delayed almost 14
months from signing and was extended three times to accommodate SEDRI's need
to sign subsidiary agreements with all eight implementing agencies. These
difficulties were compounded by prolonged, heavv rainfall, flooding and
extensive damage from November, 1982 to April, 1983, and the subsequent
rehabilitation period. Acute counterpart funding shortages caused by
declining oil export revenues, economic austerity and wavering commiltment
dealt a major blow to these projects in their early stages. This was
compounded by the failure of key agencies (MOP, BNP and MAG) to collaborate as
planned.
26.       Productive Components.  In general terms, both project areas
presented climatic and physical conditions conducive to successful crop and
13/ The original concept, ironically, behind the ill-fated Puerto Ila-Chone
Highway was to ensure that roads construction preceded rural development.



- 10 -
livestock production. The productive component comprised three programs:
extension, credit and legalization of land titles, all of which were mutually
dependent, required considerable coordination and a diverse cohort of
technical personnel, including specialist consultants. All three suffered
major delays in the early years of implementation due to: (a) slow start-up of
project activities in general; (b) SEDRI's bias towards the social and
community aspects of the projects; (c) coordination problems between SEDRI and
MA&G which affected MAG's assignment of adequate and suitable extension
personnel to the PEU; and (d) operational difficulties experienced in getting
extension services underway due to the lack of access roads, a consequence of
already chronic difficulties with the infrastructure component. A summary of
component implementation issues follows.
27.       Agricultural Extension.  Overall responsibility for the
agricultural extension service rested with a Specialized Services Unit (USE)
to be established by MAG in each PEU; the USE was to have technical, financial
and administrative autonomy, its own budget, and would report directly to the
project director (head of each PEU). Progress up to 1986 was mediocre due to
poor salaries, lack of conceptual definition and clear objectives in
extension, poor access to many communities, and inadequate transport.
Technology transfer and extension services underwent considerable conceptual,
methodological and operational evolution over the project period, and
especially after 1986.
28.       A decisive factor was MSW's decision in 1987 to strengthen
agricultural services by hiring contract specialists through the Inter-
American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (IICA) using project funds.
However, most of these technicians were by definition temporary, since MSW
could not sustain the kinds of salaries possible from project funds, after
project closing. The implications of contract personnel are, unfortunately,
lack of continuity and continued deficiencies in local extension capacity.
Neither project achieved the numbers of extension staff planned (Part III,
Table 4 in each case) but this is perhaps less important than Government
hiring and retaining the staff it has budget to support longer-term. SAR
targets may have been overly ambitious, especially the expectation that local
offices could attract well-trained technicians and their families to areas
lacking even basic services. While conditions are now better in larger
centers such as El Carmen (Puerto Ila-Chone) and Quininde (Esmeraldas), in
other mora remote locations such as La Bramadora and El Paraiso (Puerto Ila-
Chone) professional incentives remain few.
29.       The concept of tailoring technology packages to area needs gained
momentum but in operational terms, extension became almost exclusively
concentrated on recipients of credit, functioning as a direct complement to
credit rather than as an autonomous, broad-based service, while extensionists
assumed the added function of promoters and supervisers of credit. While this
had highly positive results for effective credit usage Per se and livestock
development, it limited the attention devoted to technological problems of



- 11 -
annual and perennial crop systems14 and hence productivity of those crops
remained well below potential (althought the short time available to revive and
implement these projects obviously played an important role in limiting
productivity improvements).
30.       In late 1989 extension specialists analysed the results of the
technology transfer program and concluded that it was still not achieving its
productlve targets or adequate coverage. Further adjustments were made, among
the most important of which were: (a) greater attention to crops; (b) strong
emphasis on group technology transfer; (c) systematic support for
entrepreneurial skills development among farmer groups; and (d) the formation
of Promotores Agropecuarios Campesinos (PACs) made up of peasant community
leaders trained by IICA-supervised extensionists in technology transfer and
adoption processes which they would then pass on to their fellow producers.
PACs were given the necessary tools, equipment and inputs to carry out
extension advice in what MSW described as a "learning by doing" methodology.
This was a sound and innovative move consistent with the conceptual idea of
small farmer self-reliance fostered by both projects, but the focus of
training remained notably biased towards livestock management, with
agricultural PACs being a much more recent development. In summary, it is
clear that a more balanced allocation of extension would have generated better
productive results and beneficiary, coverage, and evidence suggests, greater
participation of smaller farmers.a/
31.       Credit.  The linkage between obtaining project credit and improved
overall standard of living is acknowledged to have been striking. For project
beneficiaries its priority stemmed from: (a) lack of resources or opportunity
to accumulate them; (b) frequently precarious land occupation situation; (c)
in the case of Puerto-Ila Chone, unreliable public services, especially
credit, due to the project area straddling three provinces involved in
boundary litigation (a project design issue raised by EPDRI); (d) the
conservative and exclusionary lending posture of BNF; and (e) under-utilized
pasture lands.'61 Both Loan Agreements contained a covenant requiring that
BNF direct a specified percentage of sub-loans to small farmers (60% for
Puerto Ila-Chone and 50X for Esmeraldas). SEDRI in 1982 sought a greater role
in the supervision of the credit components of both projects, in order to
ensure tbht this occurred. After lengthy negotiations, which further delayed
effectiventess, the Bank agreed to give SEDRI a complementary role in promoting
and coordinating credit for smaller-scale farmers on the understanding that
BNF retained full authority and responsibility for subloan approval and
administration. Preservation of BNF's role was of paramount importance
14/ There was clearly demand for technical assistance towards the end of the
project period in annual (short-cycle, e.g., rice, corn, beans etc.) crops
from the farmer organizations, which might reflect greater confidence in the
ability to market product.
15/ M. Carroll and Associates Ltd., OD. cit.
16/ Hinisterio de Bienestar Social, Informe de Terminacion del Provecto
Puerto Ila-Chone, Quito, undated.



- 12 -
because SEDRI had no experience or expertise in the "banking" aspects of
credit.
32.       The credit component was hampered byt (a) lack of counterpart
fund.; (b) operational inconsistencies between branches in the project areas;
(c) an inadequate supply of cattle to meet demand and low demand for crop
production investment; (d) 4-5 month delays in Central Bank processing of
credit applications, causing BNP in the interim to have to finance sub-loan
disbursements from its own limited resources; and (e) the high proportion of
farmers, especially in Puerto Ila-Chone, who lacked proper title. The most
striking feature of the credit programs under both projects was the
polarization of demand towards livestock investments, in marked contrast to
credit feasibility studies at appraisal which predicted strong demand for the
replacement, rehabilitation and processing of perennial crops. Around 85% of
the credit under Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas went for livestock purposes
including the purchase of cattle and pig breeding stock, establishment of
pasture, and construction of livesteck holding areas.
33.       The overall numbers of farmers who had obtained credit by June 1990
(latest available data) were 880 in Puerto Ila-Chone, 33% of target and 18% of
eligible productive units in the area; and 787 in Esmeraldas, 65% of the
target and 31% of eligible farms. Lack of counterpart funds was the
predominant reason for subloan results falling far short of targets. Credit
for agricultural uses went mostly to planting and rehabilitation of coffee,
cocoa and plantain in both areas, in addition to the purchase of some 6,000
tree seedlings for Esmeraldas. Credit distribution was geographically uneven.
In Esmeraldas for example, the existence of large numbers of farmers with
title in Zone I saw 34% of the credit directed there, while Zone IV, with
difficult access and more rudimentary development, received 14%. There is no
data from either project showing recipients of credit by size but audit
reports indicate that BNF was substantially in compliance with covenanted
minimum percentages of credit for small farmers.
34.       Extension agents became key figures in the promotion and
supervision of credit (para. 28) which had implications for the nature and
extent of technology diffused. This close relationship meant that credit
repayment under both projects was excellent, with portfolio arrears not
exceeding 32. The reasons for the focus of credit on livestock were: (a) the
profitability of perennial crops, especially coffee, dropped sharply in the
later years; (b) farmers perceived crops as risky and were reluctant to take
on debt to expand their cultivation; (c) the terms and conditions of project
credit, especially the grace and repayment periods, favored livestock; and (d)
livestock is a traditional activity within the mixed-farming e_hemes in these
areas, especially for medium-sized farmers, and developed as a result of the
conditions for colonization which included the requirement to cultivate a set
proportion of the land, which was least expensive and simplest using pasture
grasses.
35.       A Final Comment.  It appears, surprisingly, that the actual
conditions for livestock (production, costs and prices) made it significantly
less profitable than other agricultural activities in the project areas, and
in the opinion of those surveyed on this subject by EPDRI, was not profitable.



- 13 -
However, holdings were fairly large and suited to extensive farming, BNF
leaned towards such investments, and cattle made sense to farmers as the
quickest route to development. Perennial crops could be cultivated on a small
portion of the holding, were relatively manageable for a family and could be
marketed one way or another. Annual (short-cycle) crops however, required
considerable labour, were low value and difficult to market, and therefore
were seen as not being worth the effort. There seems to have been a
resurgence of interest in annual crops, which in the Puerto Ila-Chone area can
be partly attributed to the project-financed construction of the Collection
and Marketing Center in El Milagro (not in the original project design).
36.       Land Titlins.  The land titling profile for each project varied.
Land settlement in Esmeraldas was relatively recent. Few informal land
transfers had occurred, mainly to consolidate parcels into farms exceeding 50
ha, and IERAC had a greater presence in the area, granting provisional titles
which were adequate collateral for BNF term credit. There were few problems
of illegal possession. In Puerto Ila-Chone, where settlement was older,
provisory titles given by IERAC had frequently failed to be fully legalized (a
requirement of the Agrarian Reform Law) and were transferred and subdivided
without proper documentation. The result was that about 80% of all farms <100
ha (and 1OOZ of farms <20 ha) were not properly titled and therefore
ineligible for medium and long-term BNF investment credit.
37.       Land titling progressed slowly due to operational and financial
difficulties in IERAC and because farmers could not afford the S/2,000 /ha fee
charged by IERAC, a substantial sum on holdings averaging 35 ha, and a
constraint which is not mentioned in the SARs."' In 1986, the titling
program received additional funding, both directly through IERAC and
indirectly through a cooperative mechanism involving IERAC, BNF, the PEU, the
Bank and farmer groups whereby BNP would finance titling costs under medium-
term credit. This innovative solution (which was believed to have potential
nationwide) depended heavily upon BNF counterpart funds availability, a long-
standing issue BNF was trying to resolve with the Ministry of Finance-!, By
October 1991, some 2,748 legal titles had been delivered to Esmeraldas
beneficiaries, 130Z of the original target of 2,100 and 98% of the revised
target of 2,800. In Puerto Ila-Chone, 2,875 titles were delivered, 85% of the
targeted number. These figures reflect the tremendous progress achieved in
the last years of both projects.
38.       Infrastructure--Roads and Bridfes.   Infrastructure delays
prevented any semblance of synchronized project implementation and limited the
productive achievements of both projects. Under the subsidiary agreement for
17/ About US$60/ha in late 1982 when the problem surfaced. It is possible
that this fee did not exist at appraisal but was levied later in response to
budgetary needs.
18/  The Ministry of Finance owed BNP around S/.156 million in counterpart
funds dating from 1983. BNP suspended its credit operations for both projects
in early 1988, and sought to work out the problem with the Banco Ecuatoriano
de Desarollo (BEDE), the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank.



- 14 -
Puerto Ila-Chone signed with SEDRI, MOP was responsible for the contracting,
construction and supervision of roads and bridges. In Esmeraldas, MOP was
responsible for studies, contracting and supervision, while the Esmeraldas
Provincial Council (CPE) would handle constructior. Unfortunately, MOP
displayed scant interest in the entire infrastruc-.ire program, and handled its
responsibilities incompetently, choosing contractors who subsequently went out
of business either because of technical and financial incapacity or because
they did not receive timely payment from MOP. Late payment by MOP also caused
works in progress to be abandoned. The same works often were repeatedly
contracted. As a consequence, only 9 km of roads were built in Puerto Ila-
Chone in the first three years out of 167 km scheduled. In Esmeraldas, there
was no activity whatsoever in this same period; from 1983-1985, numerous
studies were done but only 4 km of roads were built. Attempts to launch
construction of the crucial Guayllabamba Bridge were equally frustrating.
Reconnaissance studies revealed its optimal placement but a small community
petitioned the GOE to locate the bridge near their settlement, an unfavorable
location which increased its size and cost. MOP took two years to award the
contract, to a firm which subsequently failed, necessitating repetition of the
entire process. The bridge was finally completed in 1991 after many further
difficulties. W
39.       MSW acted promptly in 1986 to cancel the agreements with MOP and
assume responsibility for roads and bridges/1 resulti-ng in a notable
acceleration of the component in both projects but not without considerable
difficulty. Targets were met or exceeded in all as-ects of the Puerto Ila-
Chone and Esmeraldas programs (with the exception of the Rio Cupa bridge) with
most progress being achieved from 1988 onwards, a poignant reminder of the
potential in Ecuador for excellent performance given commitment and the right
people. The quality of roads built was generally satisfactory, although EPDRI
reported evidence in Esmeraldas of rain-induced deterioration of roads used by
logging and palm product companies, and comparative under-utilization.
40.        The distribution of roads was heavily concentrated in certain
zones, working against a more generalized development of the respective
project areas. EPDRI suggests that under both projects, the physical and
financial "visibility" of the roads component, combined with the prolonged
initial delays, relegated other equally important components to secondary
status in the final years. This report contends that the centrality and
urgency of access per se inevitably put roads construction to the forefront of
project execution (Zones III and IV of the Esmeraldas project area remained
outside the mainstream of project activities until completion of the
Guayllabamba Bridge in 1991), but it is ecually clear that substantial
progress was made in all other components.
19/ A comprehensive account of MOP's institutional deficiencies and
performance can be found in the Project Completion Report on the Sixth Highway
Project (Ln. 1882-EC), Report No. 9298, January 22, 1991.
20/ MSW's assumption of responsibility for infrastructure was relatively
smooth, partly because it was the bureaucratic "equal" of MOP. SEDRI did not
have the same status.



- 15 -
41.       While roads offered much improved marketing conditions as well as
access to inputs, evidenced by the upswing in export marketing of plantain in
Puerto Ila-Chone, their impact on agricultural production was slight chiefly
because of the short time which had elapsed since their completion. Many
farmers were unwilling to invest in increased production until they had better
access to markets, a phenomenon reported in other Bank agricultural projects
e.g., Paraguay and Bolivia.
42.       Procurement.  Procurement was difficult. The bidding and award
process experienced constant technical and bureaucratic complications,
protracted internal reviews (under Ecuadoran law) including by the Contraloria
General, incompetent performance, poor relations between MOP and MSW, and
between the construction and RD subsecretariats within MSW (until 1988).
Considerable effort, diplomacy and ingenuity was required by Bank staff to
sort out complex problems, resolve competing claims, and especially to secure
the contracting of the grossly delayed Guayllabamba Bridge. From 1988 MSW
worked hard to keep things moving and resolve problems efficiently. The
overall situation cannot be attributed to Borrower misunderstanding of the
Bank's procurement guidelines.
43.       Social Components.  The complexity and diversity of actions planned
under the social component of each project required the involvement of
relevant specialized agencies as executors under subsidiary agreements with
SEDRI. Delays were encountered from the beginning and were especially serious
in the case of health and sanitation works, but all social targets were
ultimately met or exceeded. (In both projects, health targets were modified
in agreement with the Bank). The principal deficiency in both cases was the
staffing, equipping and operation of social servicess with health and
education being cause for tbe most concern. In Puerto Ila-Chone, the
educational program was impeded by the shortage of teachers willing to locate
in rural areas. This was reflected not only in the quantity but in the
qualifications, lack of continuity and level of absenteeism among teachers who
did sign on. A substantial number of the school buildings constructed with
project funds were closed at any particular time due to lack of parsonnel. A
similar situation affected health facilities. The majority of medical staff
manning them were advanced students doing their required year's service in
rural areas, making for lack of permanence and frequently, long gaps in
between replacements. Further, while the construction of medical facilities
achieved target, the numbers and location of centers were inadequate for the
area, and services offered were hampered by the lack of basic supplies to
operate and complement medical equipment purchased by the project.
44.       In Esmeraldas, specific steps were taken in response to beneficiary
disquiet about the operational capability of health centers including the
hiring of a physician to the PEU to oversee execution and coordination,
training programs for local inhabitants in disease prevention, volunteer
health teams, immunization programs and a mobile dental clinic. However, due
to its predominantly coordinating role, the PEU was unable to resolve the
issue of transient health personnel. Targets for school (classroom)
construction, rehabilitation and equipment were exceeded, but teacher
availability was poor, as with Puerto Ila-Chone. Sanitation works and potable
water were badly delayed but were ultimately installed in a satisfactory



- 16 -
manner, and beneficiaries were organized to operate and maintain facilities.
An important achievement of the PEU was establishing an adult education
program for some 700 persons, and initiating feasibility studies for eleven
secondary schools. 21
45.       Esmeraldas included the construction of service centers for
administrative, marketing and community purposec. Targets were achieved or
exceeded. It was hoped that community centers would strengthen peasant
organization but they appear to have been under-utilized or virtually
abandoned; project beneficiaries were more interested in the construction of
marketing centers, (which to some degree doubled as community meeting
places)2.-
46.       In general, the key limitations on the social component weres (a)
delayed execution of most planned works; (b) evident unevenness in the
geographic coverage of services; (c) the imbalance between infrastructure and
funds available for its adequate use; (d) the relatively more serious delays
in sanitation works and potable water; and (e) the lack of monitoring and
evaluation of project-related social indicators. EPDRI and Bank supervision
staff concluded however, that social service development undoubtedly improved
the standard of living of project beneficiaries, increased literacy, reduced
the incidence of disease caused by poor sanitation and water and, empirical
evidence suggests, indirectly diminished rural-urban migration. The services
now available are superior to those in most rural areas of Ecuador and have
indirectly also benefitted agricultural production in terms of reduced time
needed to obtain services.
47.       The Environment.  The risk of adverse environmental effects was
quite high and the problems of monitoring and controlling resource and input
use in a frontier setting were acknowledged during the internal review
process.  Project staff were advised to present the environmental outlook in
"realistic" terms.23/ The SARs called for agricultural and forestry
extension agents to disseminate soil conservation and reforestation pr.ctices.
No formal environmental impact assessment was done in either project area and
the legal documents contained no covenants on the environment.
48.       The most notable environmental phenomenon reported by EPDRI was
extensive de-forestation with its consequent risks of soil erosion, but it is
21/ M. Carroll and Associates Ltd., Op. cit.
22/ G. Beltran, Informe Sobre el Impacto Agroeconomico v Social de los
Provectos de Desarollo Rura' Integral, Puerto Ila-Chone v Quininde-Esmeraldas,
Quito, May 1988.
23/ In the case of Esmeraldas, it was acknowledged that the risk of serious
erosion was substantial, due to high rainfall and erosion-prone soils, and
taking into account the difficulty of achieving adoption of good land-use
practices in a frontier environment. A proposal that 20% of holdings remain
in forest was seen as not economically or financially sound if the land was
suitable for development, nor eniorceable in the prevailing circumstances.



- 17 -
not clear that it was directly caused by the projects as opposed to what was
virtually inevitable due to: (a) public policies which encourage de-
forestation; (b) weak, unenforced environmental laws; (c) the natural
evolution of farming systems in virgin areas; and (d) road construction. A
vivid example of public policy is the Ecuadoran land titling law which
requires that farmers clear the preponderance of their land in order to
qualify for title.
49.       In Puerto Ila-Chone, forested areas are estimated to have been
reduced from 18,000 ha at the outset, to some 6,000 ha. Large farms, not
under the purview of the projects, made up a significant portion of this area.
A re-forestation program was launched by NAG in the Puerto Ila-Chone project
area involving the planting by farmers of some 427,000 forest and ornamental
trees, covering 682 ha between 1984 and 1990.241 Transportation of young
trees was difficult in the early years due to lack of roads, and already
substantial losses were aggravated by poor quality planting and cultivation,
and disease. The introduction of hardier species in 1985 sharply improved the
success rate. Other environmental efforts directed at farmer understanding of
resource conservation in general, had little impact.251
50.       Esmeraldas demonstrated a somewhat different situation. Even though
de-forestation was marked (60,000 ha in 1980 to 25,000 ha in 1990) the causes
were distinct. The existence of large, commercial forest concessions in the
project area had a negative influence on conservation efforts (e.g., logging
concessions had the equipment and transport to assist neighboring farmers in
clearing their land), while roads constructed were used by logging firms for
transportation and marketing, a situation beyond the control of the project.
Nevertheless, while the undulating terrain and suitability for extensive
farming systems made de-forestation highly likely, farmers in the area showed
comparatively better rates of acceptance of agro-forestry systems promoted by
project extension.
51.        While a major part of the land held by project beneficiaries was
dedicated to pasture for livestock, which is believed to have minimized the
risk of erosion, this could change in the future with a potential
intensification of production systems. The availability of good roads,
combined with the declining profitability of livestock and certain perennial
crops such as coffee, could induce a shift to short-cycle (annual) crops, a
trend which had already appeared at closing. The comparatively minor
attention given by extension services to these crops increases the risk of
irrational use of agro-chemicals, while the lack of satisfactory results in
the project's forestry program also increases the future risk of erosion.
24/ The NBS completion report on Puerto Ila-Chone laments the low figure in
view of the suitability of a high proportion of the project area for lumber,
fruit and ornamental species.
25/ The same report attributes this largely to a lack of promotion by the
PEU.



- 18 -
52.       In retrospect, the Bank's somewhat fatalistic stance on the
environmental issues was imprudent and could have been partly retrieved by a
mid-term environmental evaluation followed by efforts to reinforce extension
transmittal of resource conservation messages, upgrade re-forestation actions
in both areas, and engage MBS and other agencies in a dialogue on these
issues. However, in the late 1970s and early 19809 the Bank had yet to
undergo the self-analysis that later produced distinct environmental policies
and procedures, and resource conservation projects including the proposed
Technical Assistance and Environment Project in Ecuador, now under
preparation.
53.       Disbursements  Both projects suffered chronic disbursement
problems, which creation of Special Accounts was unable to alleviate.
By early 1985, commitment fees on the loan balances were almost equal to
accumulated disbursements. The Bank realized that recession, flood damage and
rehabilitation, and bureaucratic incapacity had made both projects over-
optimistic in terms of the original appraisal and GOE resource contraints, and
advised SEDRI, whose new leadership was concerned about slow implementation,
to carry out a detailed review with the possibility of reformulation. In both
cases, the original concept and design were maintained but it was determined
that project costs were somewhat lower than forecast due to: (a) devaluation
of the sucre over the preceding three years; (b) substantially reduced project
costs in dollar terms; and (c) substantial reduction in contingencies.
Accordingly, in August 1985 the loan amount for Puerto Ila-Chone was reduced
from US$20 million to US$16.9 million; and Esmeraldas was reduced from US$17
million to US$16.1 million.
54.       While commitment to better implementation was implicit in the
changeover from SEDRI to MSW in 1986, the administration's main concern in the
midst of economic crisis was in getting the macro policies straight rather
than putting funds into anti-poverty projects. Disbursements did not improve,
a situation exacerbated by repeated failure to make headway on road and bridge
construction. In 1987, the Bank began to weigh openly cancellation of all
three RD projects. This appears to have had a salutary effect on MSW, which
had found its feet on RD after a difficult transition; project implementation
and disbursements improved greatly, especially from 1988.
55.       Special Accounts and the Central Bank.  Implementation of these
projects (and most Bank projects in Ecuador at the time) suffered from
persistent delays in processing disbursement requests through the Special
Accounts. A Bank consultant carried out a special study of the problem in
1988, which was then taken up at the country level. In essence, while the
Central Bank (CB) was willing to reimburse executing agencies for
expenditures, it did not apply to the Bank for reimbursement to the Special
Account until after it had received and reviewed documentary verification of
the SOEs (actions which were in fact the reponsibility of the executing
agencies, not the CB). This resulted in backlogs and the Central Bank would
then refuse to accept further withdrawal applications by executing agencies
once the balance of the Special Account was committed. The Ecuadorans were
adamant that such verification was a Central Bank policy and that it would
continue even though it essentially negated the purpose of the Special
Account.



- 19 -
56.       The issue caused complications for BNF (credit component) and IICA
(technical assistance/extension), both of which had signed subsidiary
agreements in 1983 with SEDRI for revolving funds to expedite implementation.
BNF, for example, would normally receive US$250,000 from the Special Account
at the start of the agricultural season. The CB would not apply to the Bank
for reimbursement of this amount until all expenditures were made and
verifying documentation received, generally 10-12 months later. The Bank
handled the resulting backlog in the Special Accounts for both projects by
increasing the amount of the Special Account through smendiients to the Loan
Agreement. The initial deposit of US$500,000 was increased to US$1.0 million
in September, 1985 and to US$1.5 million in December, 1987. Even at that
level, the Central Bank continued to tell MBS that there was no money left in
the Special Account.
57.       The matter assumed critical proportions in 1989 when the CB
practice began to affect the availability of funds for IICA preparation of the
new RD project in Ecuador (PRONADER), as well as already long-delayed project
civil works and BNF credit.  MSW sought to bypass the Special Account with
direct payment requests to the Bank but the Bank's Disbursement Office (LOAEL)
rejected this approach in an attempt to promote resolution of the problem
between MSW and the CB.  The matter appeared to have been resolved in October,
1989 through high-level discussions between the Bank and the CB, which ceded
authority for SOE verification to the PEU for each project.!-" However,
problems arose again in 1990-91 when the CB put all project Special Accounts
into one account in Switzerland, causing delays of up to two months while
deposits and balances were verified after each transaction, and leading to the
same problem of exhausting the Special Accounts. This matter had not been
resolved by projects' closing.
58.       Proiect Risk Assessment.  The main project risks in both cases were
stated to be institutional and managerial but it was believed that creation of
SEDRI, backed by technical assistance from USAID and FAO, and close Bank
supervision of MAG, BNF and IERAC would improve the functioning of these
institutions. This was an inadequate response to the dimensions of the
problem, especially iii view of project complexity and Bank supervision
resources. The risk assessment had complete confidence in MOP and foresaw no
special difficulties in civil works construction, despite grossly inefficient
preparation and generally deteriorating performance on the Bank's highways
projects, especially from 1980. It is suggested that project processing
momentum and the central importance of the civil works components overrode a
more cautious analysis of MOP's commitment and capacity at that time. The more
recent Bank practice of systematic institutional skills gap analysis and
action plans has done much to improve management and efficiency in
implementing agencies but institutional incentive structures and political
pressures largely elude Bank solution, at least at the operational level.
59.       The stated "ready availability" of production techniques to attain
what were fairly ambitious agricultural yield and output targets may have been
true technically (INIAP had developed promising packages in crops and
26/ Memorandum, September 22, 1989.



- 20 -
livestock), but glossed over the complex chain of actions needed in between.
Finally, as with many SARs, the prospect of scarce counterpart funds was not
mentioned even though oil revenues were dwindling and the Tungurahua RD
Project (Ln. 1644-EC, effective September, 1979) was beset by serious funding
problems. The point is not that the Bank can pre-empt all of these problems
through project design, but that risk assessment should be a more candid
exercise and one which is linked, ideally, to project scope, scale and
content.
Proiect Results
60.       Project objectives, with the exception of the institutional
aspects, were largely achieved. While the immediate impact of project
investments is readily apparent, the potential benefits in the future could be
substantial. Available evidence of project impact to date is scarce
(monitoring and evaluation were not established) apart from measures of
physical productivity of farms receiving technical assistance from the
projects (Parts III, Table 6). While these projects can be considered
successful when measured against appraisal indicators and the fact that
effective implementation was less than four years, the ability to benefit
fully from these benefits, particularly among smaller farmers, could be
jeopardized by the sustainability issue.
61.       Among the more important results of these projects are the
following: (a) impressive and readily visible improvements in standard of
living in both project areas; (b) successful beneficiary organization for
commercial and community purposes; (c) roads construction had rapid and
positive effects in reducing isolation, facilitating beneficiaries' access to
basic social services and increasing the level of marketing activity; (d)
export marketing of plantain enjoyed a well-organized resurgence in Puerto
Ila-Chone and both areas witnessed the emergence of a farmer entrepreneurial
class directly related to project organizing actions, construction of
marketing facilities and technical assistance; (e) BNF, a tr-iditional and
conservative lending body, has begun to adapt its lending practices to
accommodate peasant customs, levels of literacy and desire for autonomy, in
the process improving the effectiveness of farmers' investments, the r ejility
to pay accounts on time and take advantage of prices.
62.       Limited yield data from March and August 1990 in the case of Puerto
Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas respectively, show the followi.ng for farmers who
adopved project extension packages: (a) in both projec-Ls, yields for cocoa,
coffee, plantain, corn and rice exceeded area levels pre-project, markedly in
the case of coffee; (b) corn yields in Puerto Ila-Chone exceeded appraisal
projections, while manioc, rice and yucca yields were close to projected
levels; (c) in both projects, area devoted to livestock greatly exceeded
appraisal estimates; (d) annual crops in Puerto Ila-Chone, and perennial crops
in Esmeraldas, more than doubled their pre-project area and exceeded appraisal
projections (principally due to marketing, road and organizational
improvements, not extension); and (e) milk yields more than doubled pre-
project levels in Esmeraldas, and came close to the appraisal estimate.
Whether yields can improve further given likely reductions in extension
services, and very high targets in some cases (e.g.coffee, plantain) remains



- 21 -
to be seen, but these results certainly confirm the productive potential of
both areas.
63.       In contrast, neither project had any notable impact on
institutions. The institutional situation has largely reverted to the pre-
SEDRI era with sustainability of project actions falling back, in most cases,
on MAG and other relevant agencies. The incoming Government (August, 1992) is
likely to result in new leadership in MSW with all the uncertainty typically
entailed. It is not known whether the projects generated employment
opportunities for smail farmers and landless families, but there is potential
in the apparent upswing of interest in more labor-intensive annual crops
towards closing.
64.       Project Economic Rate of Return.  The re-estimated rate of return
on Puerto Ila-Chone is 111 over 25 years (compared to 18% at appraisal), and
on Esmeraldas 14.62 over 25 years (compared to 221 at appraisal). The
methodology used for recalculating the rates of return for both projects
essentially updated that of the respective SARs. Further details concerning
cost, benefit and phasing assumptions are set out in Parts III, Table 6B.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
65.       A vital element not addressed until very late by MSW was the
transition to the post-project period. The Esmeraldas SAR called for the GOE
to maintain and adequately fund long-term credit, extension, road maintenance,
and health and primary education services in the post project period. Both
Loan Agreements contained covenants relating to road maintenance and equipment
only.' Sustainability remains a pressing issue.  The PEUs made a major
effort with sustainability in mind, to advance farmer organization and self-
reliance mechanisms, including the PACs and the Community Fund for
Agro/Livestock Services (FOCOSA), established to lend short-term credit for
purchase of inputs. Final supervision of both projects in late 1991 discussed
the future of agricultural production services and road maintenance and
reached certain understandings on interim actions, but social components,
especially staffing for health posts and schools, were apparently not
included.
66.       The longer-term sustainability of agricultural production services
(and agricultural production) requires most urgently, that HAG research,
extension, marketing and farmer organization specialists reestablish a regular
presence in both areas (obviously at reduced levels of infrastructure and
personnel). MSW and MAG agreed to draw up a transitional plan for the
handover to MAG, including funding for several IICA technicians, and submit it
to the Bank by December 31, 1991. 'here has been no further action.
67.       Both projects purchased sophisticated road maintenance equipment.
The Loan Agreement for Puerto Ila-Chone did not specify a responsible agency
for roads maintenance, but the SAR suggested MOP; for Esmeraldas, the Loan
27/ Puerto Ila-Chone, Article IV, Section 4.04; and Esmeraldas, Article III,
Section 3.13.



- 22 -
Agreement specified an arrangement between HOP and the Esmeraldas Provincial
Council. Various alternatives were discussed, including IERAC, which had
experience and had maintained its own, old equipment responsibly; and producer
organizations, whose involvement longer-term was favored by the Bank and MBS.
However, questions remained concerning the latter's technical, financial and
administrative capacity, making well-defined and substantial sources of
official funding imperative. Several supervision missions pressed MSW to
prepare and submit to the Bank by January 15, 1992, annual maintenance plans
and budgets, but there has been no follow-up.
Bank Performance
68.       The Bank displayed strong commitment to both projects throughout
their long history, and a willingness to be flexible, patient and constructive
in the realization that many of the issues affecting the projects were generic
to the Ecuadoran public sector, the overall macro situation and natural events
beyond the Borrower's control. The relationship with SEDRI was strained and
with MOP, deteriorated to the point where there is now very little joint
activity. The Bank has maintained an excellent working relationship with MSW
which has extended to the PRONADER project (Ln. 3390-EC). With regard to the
Central Bank's handling of the Special Accounts (paras.53-55), a sterner and
earlier Bank response was necessary in lieu of the temporary device of
repeatedly raising the deposit in those accounts, which did little to
alleviate implementation delays in the extension and credit components.
Simultaneous supervision of the two projects was a huge task, and was handled
in a resourceful and dedicated manner. Evidence suggests that the perpetual
struggle for counterpart funding needed to be addressed by senior Bank
management at the country level.
69.       Overall Findinas and Lessons Learnt.  These projects were not
blueprints for the alleviation of rural poverty and in key respects they
demonstrated the weaknesses of the classic area development model.
Nevertheless, they provided valuable lessons in design and beneficiary
participation to ensure implementation and sustainability. The long
experience with these projects (including Tungurahua, Ln.1644-EC) has been
internalized in the Bank and is reflected in the next generation of RD in
Ecuador, PRONADER (Ln.3390-EC, approved in July, 1991). A summary of the more
important lessons follows:
(a) Both projects highlighted the need for close linkage, carefully
coordinated timing of execution, and thorough understanding of the
likely interaction between infrastructure and productive/social
components.
(b)  While centralized execution under MSW undoubtedly promoted
efficiency, the price was the relative isolation of sectoral
agencies, to which responsibility for project works and services
would ultimately devolve. The solution remains simpler projects,
fewer agencies and an institutional plan of action which strives to
improve their implementing capacity;



- 23 -
(c) Sustainability actions need to be designed, programmed, financed
and supervised as an essential and well-defined final phase of
project implementation;
(d) The funding and manpower allocated to the functionina of project
infrastructure (health posts, schools, roads maintenance) before
and after project closing, should not be subordinated to its
construction;
(e) Evidence suggests that supervision missions do not have the
capacity to solve chroric counterpart funding problems and that
senior management intervention at the country level is required;
(f) The ability of projects to secure dedicated, well-tralaed staff and
optimal performance depends directly on the salaries nffered. This
is more readily achievable in PEUs drawing on project funds, but
the Bank's calls for improved institutional performance are
unrealistic as long as public service salaries remain low.
(g)  Beneficiary organizationb should be developed early on, evolve with
the project and be supported by increasingly intensive and
formalized technical assistance as they mature;
(h) Credit was an essential catalyst to development in both projects.
The terms and conditions of credit should encourage balanced
allocation and credit programs should evolve flexibly based on
periodic evaluation of their coverage and uses; and
(i) Monitoring and evaluation fails consistently to be established in
Bank agricultural projects reducing judgments about their economic
and social impact to speculation. Draft M&E plans should be
available by appraisal, the final version by negotiations, and
their implementation closely supervised.
Borrower Performance
70.       The GOE lacked the sustained commitment, resources and
institutional capacity to prepare and implement these projects efficiently
until the advent in 1988 of a new Government and Subsecretary of Rural
Development in MSW genuinely committed to RD, reinvigorated implementation and
demonstrated what is possible with good leadership. These projects witnessed
seven changes of government with attendant turnover of ministerial officials
and their teams, reordered priorities, economic and natural crises and
constant pressures on counterpart funding. Pew projects can be implemented
smoothly under such conditions, which makes the achievement of MSW and the
PEUs all the more commendable. The creation of SEDRI was potentially a prime
opportunity to coalesce fragmented RD efforts within an independent, well-
placed institution with broad authority to coordinate public rural development
institutions. It failed completely due to poor leadership, its own newness
and lack of political capital, and above all, lack of executive powers. Other
key agencies such as MOP and MAG were simply not interested in the projects,
defeating the intent (and revealing the vulnerability) of the subsidiary



- 24 -
agreements with SEDRI. Finally, the simultaneous execution of three Bank RD
projects (along with a portfolio of thirteen bilateral and other RD
operations) overtaxed the financial, managerial and administrative capacity of
the Borrower.
71.       Lessons for the Borrower.  Many lessons could be :ited at the micro
level but it is in fact, the broader picture which has greater relevance in
Ecuador. The GOE needs, above all, to develop systematically the technical,
financial and managerial capabilities of RD agencies especially MAG, improve
the mechanisms and incentives for inter-agency cooperation, and streamline
legal and administrative procedures. Much greater emphasis is needed on human
capital development. Current public service salaries for well-trained
professionals are incompatible with dedicated, high quality performance or
their retention. Rural development requires commitment and leadership from
the top and clear directives to sectoral agencies concerning their role and
importance in specific operations. Rural development should be de-politicized
and seen as a long-term catalyst to national economic and social wellbeing.
The potential role of the private sector in providing agricultural services to
small farmers should be studied.
Consulting Services
72.       Both projects were to be supported by internationally-recruited
consultants located in the PEUs to assist with their organization and
management, and to establish other functions including agricultural marketing,
M&E, project accounts, farm planning and management, and training programs.
Most of these functions, with the exception of M&E, were implemented
successfully, although very late in some cases. The contracting of IICA
specialists was an important factor in revitalizing the development of
agricultural services. Further, the effectiveness and dynamism of the PEUs,
especially from 1988, can be attributed in large measure to the quality of
consultant support. Finally, consultants hired by the Bank to assess
infrastructure progress and to study special problems such as the Central Bank
issue, and by the project to evaluate project impact, performed to a high
standard.
Compliance with Legal Covenants
73.       Both loans had a very large number of covenants, few of which were
dated. A shorter list of the most important with realistic dates (and
assiduous follow-up), would have been advisable although in retrospect,
probably no guarantee of action. Covenant compliance was generally
satisfactory in the sense that by projects' closing the Borrower was
substantially in compliance with most of them, but the timeliness of
compliance was poor. Audit performance was unsatisfactory; delays of up to
two years for submission of audit reports to the Bank were common although the
Bank was able to shorten the delay to about one year. However, the Bank is
still waiting for the MSW audit report for 1990, and reports for 1991 from
MSW, BNF and the Central Bank.



- 25 -
PROJCT COM4PLETION REPOR
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RUR&L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1991-EC)
AND
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJE
(LOAN 2044-EC)
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
J/ The Bank's Part I was sent to the Borrower in June, 1992, but no
response has been received.



- 26 -
ECUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT II: PUERTO ILA-CHONE
(Loan 1991-EC)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans i/
Loan Number/                                          Year
project Title            Purpose                    Approved        Status                 Comments
Credit 425-EC        Irrigation development on          1973          Completed       US$4.4 million.  First Bank
Milagro              7,000 ha Irrigation                                              irrigation project in
Irrigation           development on 7,000 ha                                          Ecuador.  Pailed to achiei
Project              benefitting 825 families in                                      its objectives.
Guayas River Basin.
Loan 1230-EC         Assistance in preparation of       1978          Completed       US$2.8 million.
Technical            RD loans.                                        1984
Assistance
Project
Loan 1644-EC 2/      To improve the socio-              1978          Completed       US$18 million.  Serious
Tungurahua Rural    economic conditions and                                           implementation delays, but
Development          production of 16,000 small                                       major advances after 1986.
Project              farm families in Tungurahua                                      Potential remains to
Province.                                                        achieve objectives.
Loan 2044-EC         To improve the incomes and         1982          Completed       US$17 million. Major
Esameraldas Rural    living standard of about                                         implementation delays.
Development          5,100 rural families, on                                         Dramatic improvement after
Project              about 110,000 ha.                                                1988 and all targets
achieved
Loan 3276-EC         Flood Control, drainage,           1990          Ongoing         US$59.0 million. Major
Lower Guayas         improved health and living                                       Implementation delays.
Flood Control        conditions, agriculture and
Project              livestock development,
environmental conservation.
Loan 3390-EC         Increased productivity and         1991          Ongoing         US$84.0 million. Major
Rural Development   incomes of small farmers,                                         implementation delays.
Project              improved infrastructure,
(PRONADER)           resource conservation and
enhanced institutional
capacity.
1/      The Bank has made 14 loans and credits, totalling US#303.1 million (net of cancellations) for
agricultural and rural development in Ecuador since 1976. These include: (a) one loan and two
credits for livestock development totalling US$15.6 million; (b) a loan for fisheries of US$3.8
million; (c) credit for the Milagro Irrigation Project of US$4.4 million; (d) a loan of US$3.0
million for seeds improvement; (e) a technical assistance loan of US$2.8 million; (f) two
agricultural credit project loans totalling US$63.5 million; (g) loans for three rural development
projects totalling US$51.0 million; (h) an agricultural sector loan of US$100 million; (i) a flood
control project for US$59.0 million; and (j) a rural development project (PRONADER) for US$84
million.
21      See Project Completion Report NW. 10429, March 17, 1992.



- 27 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                  Date Planned         Revised Date             Actual
Identification               na                                   March, 1975
Preparation                  na                                   August, 1976
Appraisal                    na                                   July 7, 1980
Loan Negotiation                                                  April 10, 1981
Board Approval                                                    May 12, 1981
Signature                    na                                   November 24, 1981
Effectiveness       September 15, 1981       June 1, 1982         January 26, 1983
August 2, 1982
September 30, 1982
Project Completion
Loan Closing           June 30, 1988         June 30, 1989        June 30, 1991
June 30, 1990
December 31, 1990
June 30, 1991



Table 3: Loan Disbursement
Fscal Year                       83        84       85        86        87      88       89        90        91       92
Appraisal Estimate              34         7.7      11.4    15.1       17.3   20.0
Revised Estimate 1                         0.2       1.7      32        9.0    14.0      16.0      16.9
Actual V                        -          0.2       17 !    32         3.6    7.7        9.4      12.6   14.6         15.7
Actual as % of Estimated                 1 -  100.0  100.0    100.0    40.0   55.3       59.0      74.5    86.4        930
"'    Project re-programmed and reformulated on September, 1985 (Loan Agreement amended); disbursements re-estiMated on March, 1985.
2'    US$3.1 million cancelled on August 8, 1985; end US$1.2 milion cancelled on November 13. 1991. Inlial cancellation due to: (a) devalution of the sucre; (b) substntIall y
reduced loca costs In dollar terms; and (c) substarntal reducton In contingencies.
3Y   Includes US$1.0 millon depostt In Speclal Account, aised to US$1.5 milion on December 23, 1987.
#'    Percertage Is based on revised estimates of March, 1985.



- 29 -
Table 4: Prolect Implementatlon
Apprak(w
Key Indicators                                 Targets           Reestimated      Actual1'
Total Project cost (US$M)                      57.1              41.4             na
Loan Disbursements                             20.0              16.9             15.7
Roads * New Construction (Kin)                 215                                244
Rehabilitation (Krn)                      167                                675
Bridges - Major (No.)                          1                                  1
- Minor (No.)                             NA                                 31
Credit (Sub-Loans)(No)                         2700                               881
Land Titles (No)                               3,400                              2,875
Health Centers/Posts (No)                      8                                  5
Water Systems (No)                             10                                 3
Wells (No)                                     200                                33
Santaty Facilitles (No)                        1,000                              150
Schools (No)                                   60                                 126 2
Community Centers (No)                         0                                  1
Marketing Centers & Stores (No)                3                                  7
Agr. Technical ersonnel I (No.)                26                                 10k'
Vehicles (No.)                                 NA                                 7
1I     MSW has not yet supplied cost and financing data.
V      Refers to classrooms, not schools.
Total 22 UEP staff based at El Carmen: 19 contract personnel, 3 commission personnel, and 10 agricuitural
technicians under IICA contract (no regular agricuitural staff).
SAR called for 7 technicians at El Carmen and 19 at 3 field stations (not buiit).



Prolect Cods and Finanolna: Puedo Hla4Chon, Ln. 199-t
CATEGORY                             Plannedat Amwals                            Revied'                                     ADtua
Borroer         Bani         Total                                   TO Bank                                    TOW Bomrwer  Tote
1. Cbi Work (ncludng                                6.200                                   6.000   ,                               9,187
engineeng and ofitr&l)
I  Vehiles, equpmnz and                             t,950                                   2,500                                    1,536
matral.b (Parts E trainng
mdateas (Patab B & E).
3. TralnlngforPartsBandEof               NA          650           NA           NA            400          NA           NA           1,933            NA
Prxjec and Constas
swvkwm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4. Goods and seves faned                            70o000                                                                          3,06                              
by NF S under sub-oan, In
PartAM of the Project
.lnallocatd                              _                22Z                                            2-0            _               .             _
TOTAL                 37.100       200                       24.500        16.0         41.400       2S.748                       41,652
Table derived from project disbusmen  data. No data provided by tw Borrwer.
v  Rvson of Ju1y 31,1987taking into account (a) AuguSt 5, 1s5 reallocatlon end canaellatn; and (b) two Inres In the noun In Spec  Account
F  US$12 mUton camnced, November13, 199t.
Etimated total project eos, Supervisin Repodt November21 .1991.



- 31 -
B. Prolect Financin&
(US$Milllon)
l of                     X of
Source               Planned       Total       Actual        Total
IBRD                    20.0        35.0         15.7         37.9
Government of           37.1         65.0       25.71'        62.1
Ecuador V
TOTAL            57.1       100.0         41.4        100.0
/ Including beneficiaries' share.
XI Estimate.



- 32 -
Table 6: Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Situation at         Appraisai
INDICATORS                                   Appraisai           Estimate              Actual
1. Area
Annual Crops (ha)                            4,400               8,100              10,000
Perennial Crops (ha)                        37,800            372,8000              32,000
Livestock (ha)                              46,800              41,700              46,000
2. Yields '
Cocoa (kg/ha)                                  200                600                 283
Coffee (kg/ha)                                 200                600                 511
Plantain (tons/ha)                             5.5                13.7                 6.0
Caom (tons/ha)                                 0.8                 1.6                 2.2
Manioc (tons/ha)                               0.8                 1.4                 1.3
Rice (tons/ha)                                 1.0                 1.8                 1.6
Yucca (tons/ha)                                3.8                 7.3                 5.9
3. Livestock
Carrying Capacity (UAlha)                     0.75                1.05                 NA
Milk (L/cow/day)                               2.5                 3.0                 NA
Milk ('000 litres)                           2,472               9,271                 NA
Beef (tons)                                  1,522               2,433                 NA
4. Man-days of Labor (million)                    NA                  1.6                NA
5. Jobs for Landless families (No.)               NA                1,500                NA
6. Families with Water SuPpiv (No.) W             NA                3,300                NA
7. Families with Sanitation (No.) 2?              NA                1,000                NA
Source: MSW/ICA, March 1990 (1-3).
Average yields from a sample of producers who adopted technology packages promoted by tne Puerto
ila-Chone project.
Z See Part Ill, Table 4 for achievements. Precise numbers of families benefilting are not known.



- 33 -
B. Economic Impact
Recalculated Rate of Return - Puerto Ila-Chone (Ln. 1991-EC)
Hethodoloav
1.   The methodology used for recalculating the rate of return for Puerto
Ila-Chone essentially updates that of the SAR.
Cost Stream
2.   All project expenditures have been included at actual cest, unlike the
SAR where costs for social investments (health, education, Etc) were excluded.
Furtnier, the reestimated cost stream has not been adjusted to economic prices.
Current US dollar costs were adjusted to US dollar 1980 values using the
Manufacturers Unit Value Index. Recurrent costs to the year 2006 have been
set at US$1.5 million equivalent.
Benefit Stream
3.   Benefits are based on the SAR estimates.  Benefits do not begin coming
on stream until 1989 and the level of expected benefits has been reduced by
one-third.
Rate of Return
4.   Based on these assumptions regarding costs, benefits and phasing, the
recalculated rate of return for Puerto Ila-Chone is 1l1 over 25 years.



- 34 -
Puerto tia-Chone turat Oevetooent -Ln. 1991EC)
Reestimated Rate of Raturn
*it             '                         'ENEFIT
3gw.l    Locat       Foref an  lJalCo                                                               ERR
7578      15643       X        change   index      USS 1980    USS 1980    X.67       11.0
1.000        100
0.990         9
1982         1        94         46         48       0.49      1.000         99          93                           .93
1983        2        919        634        285       0.69      0.990         98         901                          -901
1984        3        1405       965        440       0.69      1.000         98        1377                         -1377
19t5        4       2587       1248       1339       0.48      1.180        116        2992                         -2992
1986        5        814         67        747       0.08      1.098        127        1034                         -1034
1987        6       5705       1814       3891       0.32      1.072        136        7766                         -7766
1988        7       4487       1092       3395       0.24      0.90         135        6047        -872     -584    -6631
1989        8       3210        912       2298       0.28      1.056        142        4568       -1536     -1029   -5597
190         9       2500        500       2000                 1.037        148        3689      -1621      -1086   -4776
1991       10       1500        300       1200                 1.037        153        2296      -1082      -725    -3021
192        I        1500                                       1.000        153        2296           5        3    -2292
1993       12       1500                                       1.000        153        2296        1603     1074   -1222
1994        13      1500                                       1.000        153        2296       3512      2353       57
195        14       1500                                       1.000        153        2296       5518      3697     1401
1996       15       1500                                       1.000        153        2296      21942      14701   12406
1997        16      1500                                       1.000        153        2296      21942      14701   12406
1998        17      1500                                       1.000        153        2296      21942      14701   12406
1999        18      1500                                       1.000        153        2296      21942      14701   12406
2000        19       1500                                      1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406
2001        20      1500                                       1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406
2002       21       1500                                       1.000        153        2296      21942      14701   12406
2003        22       1500                                      1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406
2004        23       1500                                      1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406
200S        24       1500                                      1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406
2006        25       1500                                      1.000        153        2296       21942     14701   12406



- 35 -
7.   Status  of Covenants:  Puerto  Ila-Chone
Summarized                             status of
oS2S!2l                              SCovenant                           Cmo1an
3.01 (b)                Borrower to make proceeds of loan                  Complied.
available to BNF for Credit under
subsidiary agreement.
3.01(d)(i) and (fi)           Borrower to maintain until            Major problems of compliance and
project completion a Special          Special Account increased twice:
Account equivalent to not less        to US$1.0 million (Sept. 24,
than US$500,000.                      1985) and to USS1.5 miltion
(Dec. 23, 1987).
3.01(d)(iif)               Borrower to appropriate annual       Major problem  with compliance.
atlocations adequate to cover         Poor counterpart funding
estimated expenditures of SEDRI       situation throughout.
and participating agencies.
3.01(d)(iv)               Borrower to establish, through        Partial Compliance.  Covenant
MAG and INIAP, an extension           re-invoked prior to closing, to
service.                              ensure NAG involvement in
sustainability actions.
3.01(d)(v)               Borrower to employ and train                  Partial compliance.
qualified health promoters and
employ qualified medical staff.
3.01(e)                 Borrower to make proceeds of the                  Complied.
Loan avallable to each
participating agencies through
subsidiary agreement.
3.01(f)                 Borrower to establish and                         Complied.
mafintain an Executing Unit by
January 31 1982; SEDRI to employ
a Project Director.
3.03(a)                 Borrower, through SEDRI to               Complied with major delays.
furnish the Bank with plans,
specifications, reports and
procurement documents.
3.03(b)                 Borrower, through SEDRI, to                       Complied.
maintain and cause participating
agencies to maintain records and
monitor the progrebs of the
project.
3.03(d)                 Borrower to furnish a completion                  Complied.
report on the project.
3.05                  Borrower to employ consultants        Partial compliance with delays.
for Executing Unit; for extension
service; for technological
packages; and for marketing.
3.06                  Borrower to regularize specified                   Complied.
numbers of land titles.
3.07(a)                 Borrower to monitor and evaluate    Not in compliance.  System never
the project;                         developed.
3.07(b)                 Borrower to submit draft of                 Complied with d%lays.
proposed monitoring system by
June 3C, 1982;
3.07(b)(i)               Borrower furnish semi-annual          Complied, with major delays.
progress reports.



- 36 -
Summarized                           status of
section                            Covenant                            Comrnian_i
3.08                 Borrower to ensure commiunties                   Comptied.
develop maintenance committees
for water supply systems, prior
to their construction.
3.10                 Borrower to review, in                           Complied.
consultation with the Bank
interest rates on BNF sub-toans
and revise when necessary.
3.11                 Borrower to cause BNF to relend                  Complied.
to small farmers at least 60% of
the credit.
4.02(a)                Borrower to maintain or cause to                 Compiled.
be maintained sdequate financial
records and accounting practices;
4.02(b)                Borrower to cause SEDRI, BNF and                 Compi ed.
participating Agencies to keep
separate accounts;
4.03                 Borrower to have separate            Complied with major delays (of
accounts and SpeciaL Account        up to two years, reduced to less
audited each year4 and furnish       than one year by closing).
certified copies of auditors'
report and statements not later
than five months after the end of
each year.
4.04                 Borrower to ensure that all works           Partial compliance.
constructed and goods acquired
are adequately operated,
maintained, renewed and repaired.
4.05                 Borrower to provide suitable            Complied with major delays.
river crossing facilities at the
Oro River.



Table 8: Use of Bank Resoures
. SKIuts
IIc Year
Stae of Project
Cyde                      76    78    77    78       79   80   81    82    83   84        85   80      87    88    90      90    91    2 Totd
Through Apprasal            70.9 1 34.7  10.3   0.0   3.9 38.9   6.9                                                                          171.4
AppraIsa through                          0.5                     63.8                                                                         54.3       1
Bord Approal
SupaVlo                                                            0.5   3.7   6.2   7.7   7.0  10.1   9.4  12.6  10.2   9.2   6.8   3.7  80.0
70.8  34.7  10.8   0.0   3.9 38.9  61.1   3.7   8.2   7.7   7.0  10.1   9.4  12.5  10.2   9.2   S.8   3.7 311.7
Data provided by MIS. Seems unusually high but may derive from the substaial rural developmen t econnalssance mission In 1975.



- 38 -
IL Missione
Sta  of           MontIV         No. of         O.ysein       SpeciaiIzation       Porrmnonoo          Type of
Projet Cyol        Yew           Pemono           Field        Reprecented1'      Rating/Standard      Problems If
Through Appr.Jsal         3/76              3             17             Ea,A8.            -
9)77             1              13                AC.                              -
2178             1              2                 Ee.
6t78             1             NA                 Ag.           -
10/78             3              2         Ag, Ec, Eng.
10/79             5             17         Ag, Eo, Eng.
1/80             1              4                 Ec.
3/0              1              9                 Ec.
6/80             1              18                Ea.           -
11/80             2             16             Ea, Ag.
3/81             1              4                Ag.
7181             1              4                 Ec.
2/62             1              10               Ag.            -
Supervbion5F          6182              2             18             Ag, Ee.           2                  0
iO182             2              6                 Ea.          NA                 I F
10182             2                            Eo, Ag.          NA                 I M
6/83             1              15               Ag.            2                 O T
1/84             1             10                Ag.            2                 O T
2185             1              3                 Ag.           3                 M T
4/85             1              10               Ag.            3                 M T
1/6             2             13            Eng. Ag.           3                 I T
6/86             2              14            Ag, Eo.           3                MTF
2187             1              4                Eng.           3                MTF
1/7               2             17            Ag. Eng.          3                 MTF
6/66             2              15           Eng, Eo.           3                PTF
10/8S             2              4            Ea, Eng.           3                MTF
3/89             2              4            Ea, Eng.           2                MTF
9/89             2              a            Ec, Eng.           2                MTF
12/90             3             10         Ee, Eng. Ag.          2                MTF
10/91             1             12                Ag.           2                 MTF
1   Ec-Ewonomit Ag-Agronomist Eng-Engineer.
N 1-Minor Problems; 2-Moderate Problem.; 3wMajor Problems.
I   M-Mmagral; T-Technloal; I=InatiWuional; F+inanolal; P-Politial; =Other.
1   Supeivivon was aried out jointly wth Esmerawdas In most oases  Formal supivision stastd wefl before effeoivenes (Januaiy 20,183).



- 39 -
ICUADOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT IXtI ESHERALDAS
(Loan 2044-EC)
PART ISIs STATISTICAL IUFORMATION
Table 1t Related Bank Loans Al
Loan Number/                              Year
Project Title        Purpose             Approved    Status            Coiments
Credit 425-EC   Irrigation development    1973        Completed   US$4.4 million.
Milagro         on 7,000 ha benefiting                             First bank irrigation
Irrigation      825 families in Guayas                            project in Ecuador.
Project         River Basin                                        Failed to achieve its
objectives.
Loan 1230-EC    Assistance in              1978       Completed   US$2.8 million
Technical       preparation of RD                     1984
Assistance      loans
Project
Loan 1644-EC    To improve the socio-      1978       Completed   US$18 million.
2/ Tungurahua   economic conditions                                Serious
Rural           and production of                                  implementation
Development     16,000 small farm                                  delays, but major
Project         families in Tungurahua                             advances after 1986
Province                                          and potential remains
to achieve
objectives.
Loan 1991-EC    To improve income and      1981       Completed   US$20 million.
Puerto Ila-     living standards of                                Serious
Chone Rural     10,000 rural families                              implementation
Development     on 110,000 ha in                                   delays.  Improvement
Project         Western Andes                                      after 1988.  All
targets achieved.
Loan 3276-EC    Flood control,             1990       Ongoing      US$59.0 million.
Lower Guayas    drainage, improved                                 Major implementation
Flood Control   health and living                                  problems.
Project         conditions,
agriculture and
livestock development,
environmental
conservation
Loan 3390-EC    Increased productivity    1991        Ongoing
Rural           and incomes of small
Development     farmers, improved                                  US$84.0 million.
Project         infrastructure,                                    Major implementation
(PRONADER)      resource conservation,                            problems.
and enhanced
intitutional capacity



- 40 -
1/    The Bank has made 14 loans and credits, totalling US#303.1 million (net of
cancellations) for agricultural and rural development in Ecuador since 1976.
These includet (a) one loan and two credits for livestock development
totalling US$15.6 million; (b) a loan for fisheries of US$3.8 million; (c)
credit for the Milagro Irrigation Project of US$4.4 million; (d) a loan of
US$3.0 million for seeds improvement; (e) a technical assistance loan of
US$2.8 million; (f) two agrAcultural credit project loans totalling US$63.5
million; (g) loans for three rural development projects totalling US$51.0
million; (h) an agricultural sector loan of US$100 million; and (i) a flood
control project for US$59 million. The most recent loan, approved by the
Board of Directors in July, 1991, was the Rural Development Project (PRONADER
Ln. 3390-EC).
7J    See Project Completion Report N. 10429, March 17, 1992.



- 41 -
Table 2: Prolect Timetable
Item               Date Planmed         Revised Date              Actual
Identification               na                                   March 1975
Preparation                  na                                   September 1978
Appraisal                   1979                                   November 10, 1980
Loan Negotiation         June 1981                                June 19, 1981
Board Approval         September 1981                             July 21, 1981
Signature                    na                                   November 24, 1981
Effectiveness          November 1981          June 1, 1982        January 26, 1983
August 2, 1982
September 30, 1982
Project Completion    June 30, 1988
Loan Closing         December 31, 1988        December 31, 1989   June 30, 1991
December 31, 1990
December 31, 1991
June 30, 1991



Table 3: Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year                 83       84      85      86       87    88       89      90       91   92
Appraisal Estimate         0.5       2.2     5.7    9.1    12.4  15.5    17.0
Revised Estimate 1f        -         1.1      1.6    2.8      7.5  12.5    15.0    16.1  13.1 'I 16.1 "I
Actual                     -         0.2      1.5 "  2.5      3.6   5.2      6.7      9.9  13.1    15.8 '/
Actual as 2 of Estimated            18.0    94.0   89.0    48.0  42.0    45.0    61.0 100.0    98.0
jJ   Project re-programmed and reformulated in September 1985.  US$0.9 million cancelled due to:
(a) devaluation of the sucre; (b) substantially reduced local costs in dollar terms; and
(c) substantial reduction in contingencies.
2/   Includes Special Account deposit of US$1.0 million.
I/   Project completed on December 31, 1991.  US$ 0.253 million cancelled on May 16, 1992.
A/   Actual as percent of revised est4muate.  Estimate revised again, November 1991.



Table 4s  PrLgect Imonlemeutattoo
Appraisal
Key Indicators                          Targets         Re-EZtimto  Actual 1/
Total Project cost (US$M)               49.0            36.7          36.7
Loan Disbursements (US$M)               17.0            16.1           15.8
Roads - New Construction (Nm)           102                            177
- Rehabilitation (Km)             128                           356
Bridges - Major (No.)                   2                             2
- Minor (No.)                   Not Spec.                     44
Credit (Sub-Loans) (No.)                1,210                         787
Land Titles (No.)                       2,100           2,800         2,748
Hbspital Rehabilitation (No.)           1                              1
Health Centers/Posts (No.)              9                             4
Water Systems (No.)                     17                            18
Wells (No.) 2/                          81                            20  3/
Sanitation Facilities (No.) 21          946                           375 A/
School classrooms (No.)                 76                            119
Community Centers (No)                  8                             6
Collection and
Marketing Centers (No.)                 1                             2
Sun Drying Platforms (No.)              -                             12
Teacher Housing (No.)                   _                             35
Agr. Technical Personnel 5/ (No.)       22                             12 6/
Vehicles (No.)                          12                            7
1/    Indicators other than project cost and disbuif-ment are for October,
1991.
2/I   Reduced in agreement with the Bank.
3/    Community water systems replaced some requirements for wells.
4/    Not including sixteen community facilities.
5/    Total 27 PEU staffs  12 Agricultural Teebnicians (3MAG, 9 IICA), 11
Administrative and Support, 3 MSW Social Promoters, 1 ]NEC (Commission)
and Project Director. --
/    SAR called for 7 technicians at El Carmen and 19 at 3 field stations
(not built).



5. Prolect Costs and Financint: Esmeraldas (Ln. 2044-EC)
A. Pro1ect Costs
(US$'000)
C A T EG O R Y                       Planned at Aipraisal                  Revised2J                               Actual
Borrower        Bank      Total    Borrower          Bank       Total   Borrower        Ban         Total
1.  Civil Works (including                     4,700                                6,700                               7,542
engineering and
construction).
2,070
2.  Vehicles, and equipment                    2,100                                 2,450
';arts B through H),
m. materials (Parts
bvri, El(lll) and (iv)
ans! E2 of Project).
3.  Training for Parts B              WA       1,200          NA           NA         400          NA          NA       3,185          NA
and E of Project, and
Consultants'
Services.
4.  Goods and services                         7,400                                3,950                               3,059
financed by BN3 under
sub-loans in Part A(i)
of Project.
5.  Unallocated                        -       1600            -            -        2.600                                            -
TOTAL                32.000        .000      49,000       20J00       16.100      36.00       20.854   153846 3/   36.700 41
Ll Table derived from project disbursement data. No data provided by the Borrower.
Al Revision reflectings (a) August 8, 1985 reallocation and canceLtation; and (b) two increases In amount In Special Account.
i1 US$0.253 million cancelled, May 16, 1992.
it Estimated total project costs, Supervision Report, December 3, 1991.



- 45 -
B. Prolect Financina
(USSNi L Lion)
Source               Planned              X of Total                  Actual               X of Total
15i3                   17.0                  34.7                     15.8                   43.0
Goverment of Ecuador1' 32.0                  65.3                     20.9'                  57.0
Total                  49.0                 100.0                     36.7                  100.0
/ Including beneficiaries' share.
' Estimate



- 46 -
Table 6: Peiect RLulm
A. DlreC90ngt
Sikution a:        Appraisal
INDICATORS                          Appraisal         Estimate         Actual tI
Annual Crops (ha)                                 10,300              NA             11,800
Perennial Crops (ha)                              13,710           15,760           25,500
Livestock                                          9,900           24,900           35,000
. Yields
Cocoa (Kgtha)                                       110              460               270
Coffee (Kg,/ha)                                     930             3,400             1,300
Plantain (Tons/ha)                                   5.1             19.9              8.2
Com (Tons/ha)                                        1.1              1.6              1.1
Rice (Tons/ha)                                       1.0              NA                1.3
3. LIJestock
Camying Capacity (UAJha)                            0.94             1.05             0.85
Milk (L/CowIDay)                                     1.3              3.0              2.8
Milk '000 Utres)                                    901            11,573              NA
Beet (Tons)                                         215             2,887              NA
4. Man-days of abor generated (Million)                NA              0.95              NA
NA              610               NA
5. Families with access to water (No.) 
NA              945               NA
6. Families with household sanitation (No.) g/
Source: MSW/PEU, August 1990
i/    Average yields from a sample of producers who adopted technology packages promoted by the
Esmeraldas Project
2/    Section 1II, Table 4 for achievements. Precise numbers of families benefItIng are not known.



- 47 -
B. Economic Impact
Recalculated Rate of Return - Esmeraldas (Lu. 2044-EC)
MLethodolo2S
1.   The methodology used for recalculating the rate of return for Esmeraldas
essentially updates that of the SAR.
Cost Stream
2.   All project expenditures have been included at actual cost, unlike the
SAR where costs for social investments (health, education, etc) were excluded.
Further, the reestimated cost stream has not been adjusted to economic prices.
Current US dollar costs have been adjusted to 1980 sucre values using an
exchange rate of SI. 25/USSl. Recurrent costs to the year 2006 have been set
at US$1.5 million equivalent.
Benefit Stream
3.   Benefits are based on the SAR estimates.  Benefits do not begin coming
on stream until 1989 and the level of expected benefits has been reduced by
one-third.
ate of Return
4.  Based on these assumptions regarding costs, benefits and phasing, the
recalculated rate of return for Esmeraldas is 14.62 over 25 years.



- 48 -
Esmeratdas Rural Develoament Prlect - (Ln. 2044-EC)
Beetfmatgd Rate of Rteturn
,Total       Local                     igLoca_l   ,S        Net Ben    llet Ze
S972        15851      X      S/. 1980       S/.         X.67           14.6
1982          1          219          117          102    0.53         5475                                 -5475
1983          2          833          491          342    0.59        20825                                -20825
1984          3         1248          688          560    0.55        31200                                -31200
1985          4         1527          710          817    0.46        38175                                -38175
1986          5         1641          138         1503    0.08        41025                                -41025
1987          6         2366          734         1632    0.31        59150                                -59150
1988          7         1895          564         1331     0.30       47375                                -47375
1989          8         1844          480         1364    0.26        46100       -1669        -1118       -47218
1990          9         4125          825         3300               103125        -491         -329      -103454
1991         10         3750          750         3000                93750        6328         4240       -89510
1"2          11         2375          475         1900                59375        3681         2466       -56909
1993         12         1500                                          37500       10977         7355       -30145
1"4          13         1500                                          37500       21632        14493       -23007
1995         14         1500                                          37500       42545        2850,        -8995
1996         15         1500                                          37500      316615       212132       174632
1997         16         1500                                          37500      371962       249215       211715
19           17         1500                                          37500      431962       289415       251915
199          18         1500                                          37500      482337       323166       285666
2000         19         1500                                          37500      528287       353952       316452
2001         20         1500                                          37500      556921       373137       335637
2002         21         1500                                          37500      576697       386387       348887
2003         22         1500                                          37500      587562       393667       356167
2004         23         1500                                          37500      593213       397453       359953
2005         24         1500                                 .        37500      593213       397453       359953
2006         25         1500                                          37500      593213       397453       359953



- 49 -
Table C. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at
Item         Appraisal           status               Impact of Study
study       Preparation of a      Not            Not carried out due to general
follow-on RD          carried       experience with the project.
project in            out           A follow-on project (PRONADER,
Esmeraldas                           Ln. 3390-EC) was studied by MSW
Province                             after 1988 as part of the
National Rural Development
Program.



- 50 -
7. Status of Covenants: Esmeoaldas
Summadied                              Status of
I*eS1Qn                              Covenant                             Complance
3.01 (b)                Borrower to maintain until project   Major problems of eompliance.
completion a Special Account of        Special Account was increased
not less than USS500,00.               twice; to USS1.0 million (Sept.
24, 1985) and to USS1.5 mitlion
(December 23, 1987).
3.01Cc)                 Borrower to make proceeds of Loan                  Complied.
Part A (Credit available to BNF
under subsidiary Agreement.
3.01(d)                 Borrower to make proceeds of loan                  Complied.
available for each participating
agency for parts B through G of
the project, under subsidiary
agreements.
3.01(f)                 Borrower to establish an Executing                 Complied.
Unit (January 31, 1982),
adequately staffed. SEDRI to
employ a Project Director.
3.01(g)                 Borrower to establish and maintain   Partial compliance.  Covenant
through NAG and INIAP, an              re-invoked in November 1991 as
extension service.                     a means of securing NAG
cooperation on sustainability
of extension services.
3.01(h)                 Borrower to employ and/or train              Partial compliance.
qualified health promoters and
medical staff for Part E.1 of
project (health component)
3.03(a)                 Borrower, through SEDRI, to                        Complied.
maintain and cause participating
agencies and BNF to maintain
records and monitor progress of
the project.
3.03(d)                 Borrower through SEDRI, to prepare            Not in compliance.
and furnish a PCR.
3.05                  Borrower through SEDRI, to employ    Partial compliance until 1988,
consultants.                           when consultants employed for
PEU through ItCA.
3.06                  Borrower through SEDRI, to: (a)        (a) Not in compliance.
monitor and evaluate execution;        (b) Complied, with major
and (b) send semi-annual progress    deLays.
reports.
3.07                  Borrower to ensure community has                   Complied.
established maintenance committee
for water systems, prior to their
construction.
3.08                  Borrower to ensure maintenance                     Complied.
arrangements in place before
constructing marketing and
community centers.
3.10                  Borrower to review interest rates                  Complied.
On sub-loans, in consultation with
Bank.
3.11                  Borrower to cause BNF to relend at                 Complied.
Least 50X of the amount made
available under Credit component,
to small farmers.



- 51 -
Summarized                            Status of
;S cdbn                              Covenant                            Comniaanee
3.12                  Borrower to cause IERAC to                   Partial Compliance.
establish system for monitoring
regularization of Land titLes; nd
Unit with specified numbers of
professional and auxiliary staff.
3.13                  Borrower to contract with MOP and    Due to poor experience with
CPE for road maintenance program.    MOP, alternative arrangements
discussed but no decision yet.
3.14                  Borrower to declare project area a           Partial compliance.
pilot area for National Health
Program; appoint a coordinator to
report to Esmeraldas Provincial
Nealth Services; and establish an
information and monitoring system.
3.15                  Borrower to furnish by December             Complied with delays.
31, 1983, TOR for feasibility
study for new RD project in the
area.
4.02                  Borrower to maintain or cause to                  Complied.
be maintained adequate financial
statements. SEDRI, BUf or any
other implementing Agency to keep
separate project accounts.
4.03                  Borrower to have separate accounts   Complied, with major delays.
and the Special Account audited       (Bank efforts were able to
each year and furnish certified       reduce delays from two years to
copies of statements and auditors'   one, by project closing)
report to the Bank not later than
five months after the end of each
fiscal year.



Table 8s Use of Bank Resource.
A.  Staff  innnee
(Fiscal Year)
Stage of Project
Cycle           76   77   78   79   80    81  82  83    84   8S  86    87   88    89   90   91    92   Total
Through Appraisal    -    O.S  27.4  21.6  35.2  8.4                                                                      93.1
Appraisal through                                 36.9  0.9                                                               37.8
Board Approval                                                                                                                             U
supervision                                             4.5  6.4  7.4  5.8  9.3  10.6  8.3  8.4  10.2  5.4  6.6   82.9
-    O.S  27.4  21.6  35.2  45.3  5.4  6.4  7.4  5.8   9.3  10.6  8.3  8.4  10.2  5.4  6.6  213.B



- 53 -
B. Missibns
Stage of Project   Month/            Number of Days In   Specialization ' Performance V  Types of :V
Cycle          Year              Persgons    Field     Represented       RatiEg/Satgj   Problems
Through Appraisal  March, 1976          3          17       Ec, Ag                  -             -
September, 1977      1         13       Ag.                     -              -
May, 1978            1          6       As.                     -
December, 1978       1          8       Ag.                     -              -
November, 1979       1         35       Ag.                     -              -
January, 1980        1          4       Ag.                     -
March, 1980          1          9       Ec. 
November, 1980       2         16       Ag, Ec.                 -              -
Through            March, 1981           1          4      Ag.                      -
Effectiveness      July, 1981            1         NA       Ec                      -
February, 1982       1         10       Ag.
Supervisioni       June, 1982           2          18       Ec, Ag.                 2             L
September, 1982      2          6       Ec                      1              L, M
June, 1983           1         15       Ag.                     2             0
January, 1984        1         10       Ag.                     2             0, T
June, 1984           1          9       Ag.                     2             0, T
January, 1985        1          3       Ag.                     3             H, T
April, 1985          1          1       Ag.                     3             N, T
January, 1986        2         10       Eng, Ag.                3             M, T, F
June, 1986           2         14       Ec, Ag.                 3             M, T, F
February, 1987       1          3       Eng.                    2             M, T, F
October, 1987        2         17       Eng, Ag.                3              T, F
June, 1988           2         15       Eng, Ec.                3             T, F
October, 1988        2          4       Eng, Ec.                3             P, T, F
March, 1989          2          4       Eng, Ec.                3             N, T, F
September, 1989      2          5       Eng, Ec.                2             L, F, I
December, 1990       3         10       Eng, Ec, Ag             2             N
November, 1991       1         11       Ag                      2             M
E/ C a Economist; Ag a Agronomist; Eng = Engineer
J1 i   Minor Problems; 2 a Moderate Problems; 3 a Major Problems
F a Financial; M a Managerial; L = Legal; T a Technical; P = Political; 0 a Others
gj Supervision was carried out jointly with Puerto Ila-Chone in most cases. Formal supervision started well
before effectiveness (January 26, 1983).



.___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___.__ ___ ___ ___ _B 18RD- 15618
ECUADOR                                                  -Oseset,X)> 
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    +
Quinindd - Molimpia - Nueva J.rusadm                                   Q iiOCtttt 
~~-qA-
o  SWS
9C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            C.,.d
\~~~~~~~~                                                                                             S./  X             S ooEI- .
voibnchio  LaAAg0    ot
.....  .... ".. 
0  LoS Cayopos                        ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A. uvdni.sta     ew
Murador  /                   Qitemodo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~molhsvcntf
ElCedral                                        /     /              o    HelthPts
tIe  MahmpRego  elm
_  tqJ  g         \          t              W                                            P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mrk  eting ooawes
J                            Np                                                                                       Ml o pFoee Roads
R I    raive.sg
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H.pia ImrveIt
N                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Heolth Ssbcevters
M> Haln PadRodss
Alee.doter Raods
KILOM"RS  .  _ i _  A                    ---- T~~~~~~~Upradcks
ANLES  _77                                    Riv~~~~~~~~~~~~erlhsubitr
79-10- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~            -     onPve  od



0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 S~~~~~~~~~~ANTO  DOMI(
o.w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
Tah~~~~~~L
D.b )                                                         l  P4ei;4k      ECUADOR
PUERTO  ILA CHONE
fBelloSFrio                        RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
s:)   /  g/Aro) 5g    0)t *voBelloSiria ,>  f   sgi            ~~FIRST PHASE
</~~~~o Do'                                                           f!/                    th s,b_as,
f-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  Sad.-g~o.I bmo o
E1t~a ~oods:
roow~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od _0w c-wvar                                      (too W9E 5m1,X > . 
M  o 7-.    moD
-Al-eawa!e feede, .o&
,  ''A;t78-~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ioT~~~~~~..d  ~D 1. P.pto                         Ntp,pa
rws~ ~ ~ ~ ~



