Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3102-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR THE
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official exchange rate is $1 = SI. 25. There is, however, a
free market rate which has been fluctuating around US$1 - SI. 30 during
the past few months. The currency equivalents given below are based on
the official exchange rate.
Currency Unit          Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1980         June 1, 1981
US$1    =            SI. 25                SI. 25
S/. 1   =            US$0.04               US$0.04
SI. 1,000            US$40.00              US$40.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF       -     Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CPE       -      Consejo Provincial de Esmeraldas
(Esmeraldas Provincial Council)
DINACE    -      Direccion de Construcciones Escolares
(Directorate of School Construction)
FONADRI   -      Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Integrated Rural Development Fund)
IDB       -      Inter-American Development Bank
IEOS      -      Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(Ecuadorian Institute of Sanitary Works)
IERAC     -      Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
(Ecuadorian Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization)
INIAP     -      Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAG       -      Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MOP       -      Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
OAS       -      Organization of American States
SEDRI     -      Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Integrated Rural Development Secretariat)
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RtEPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Ecuador
Amount:                    US$17.0 million
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
9.6 percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms            The proceeds of the proposed loan for the agricultural
credit component would be on-lent in Sucres to the
National Development Bank (BNF) on the same terms as
the Bank loan, while the Government's contribution
to the credit component would be in the form of a
17-year interest-free loan.
Project Description:       This projoct aiJ. at improving the productivity,
income and general living conditions of 5,100
poor rural families (about 28,000 persons) living in
Esmeraldas Province in northwestern Ecuador. Project
components include (i) extension, credit and other
agricultural support services; (ii) provision
of land titles; (iii) construction and improvement
of rural roads and bridges; (iv) construction of
administrative, community and marketing centers;
(v) provision of potable water, primary health care
services and school facilities; and (vi) preparation
of a future second rural development project in
Esmeraldas Province.
Special Risks:             The main risk which this project faces is institu-
tional. Ecuador's agricultural public sector
has traditionally been weak and uncoordinated,
resulting in frequent delays in project execution.
However, the Government has now established a
Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development in
order to provide the coordination that is needed for
this type of multi-sector project. This new agency
is expected to facilitate the project's execution.
Additionally, close supervision and technical
assistance have been included in the proposed
project to help minimize such risks.
This documenLbu a   sfAtriagd dAiiuuin  l may bo used by recipi only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign    Total
…---    US$ million--------
(a) Project Administration
and Extension Service           3.6          1.3         4.9
(b) Credit                            9.2          3.9         13.1
(c) Feeder Roads                      3.6          3.1          6.7
(d) Service Centers                   0.4          0.4          0.8
(e) Health Services                   1.4          0.3          1.7
(f) Water and Sanitation              0.2          0.2          0.4
(g) School Construction               0.9          0.4          1.3
Baseline Costs                   19.3          9.6        28.9
Contingencies:  Physical          2.2          1.1         3.3
Price          13.9          2.9         16.8
Total Project Costs              35.4         13.6        49.0
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
…_--- US$mil1io …--~~-
Bank                                  3.4          13.6        17.0
Government                           26.1            -         26.1
Beneficiaries                         5.9            -          5.9
Total                           35.4         13.6        49.0
Estimated Disbursements:
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
US$ million by Bank Fiscal Year -------
Annual         0.5    1.7    3.5    3.4    3.3    3.1    1.5
Cumulative    0.5    2.2    5.7    9.1   12.4   15.5   17.0
Rate of Return:    The economic rate of return is estimated at 22 percent for
the components of the project with directly quantifiable
benefits, which represent 88 percent of the total costs
of the project.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3439-EC, dated June 22, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR THE
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$17.0 million to help
finance the Esmeraldas Rural Development Project. The loan would be repayable
over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum. The proceeds of the proposed loan earmarked for agricultural credit
would be on-lent in sucres by the Borrower to BNF on the same terms as the
Bank loan, while the Government's contribution to the credit component would
take the form of a 17-year interest-free loan to BNF.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador:  Special Report"
was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979. An economic
mission visited Ecuador in November 1980 and is now preparing an economic
report. This President's Report reflects the main conclusions of the
published economic report and the findings of the recent economic mission.
Annex I summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the poorest and least
developed Latin American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploita-
tion of petroleum in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom. From
1970 to 1978, Ecuador's economy grew at an average annual rate of close to
8.0 percent. Since then, the rate of growth has decreased to 5.8 percent in
1979 and to 4.6 percent in 1980 owing to (i) sagging private investment
because of political uncertainties; and (ii) declining petroleum output.
4.        During 1979 and 1980, private investment stagnated, as businessmen
awaited the outcome of elections -- the first in a decade -- and, later, the
definition of economic policies to be carried out by the Government which took
office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of private
investment which only increased at an average annual rate of 4.3 percent during
those two years, compared to 19.1 percent per annum in the previous five years.
The decline of economic activity would have been greater had it not been for a
substantial improvement in the terms of trade during the last three years, as
oil prices nearly tripled between 1978 and 1980.
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from Report No. P-3036-EC of April 23,
1981 for the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project.



-2-
Social Development
5.        Despite the rapid economic growth which has led to the country's
present relatively high per capita income -- US$1,050 in 1979 -- much of the
Ecuadorian population continues to live in poverty and economic and social
dualism remains one of the country's salient features. While the statistical
evidence is scanty, it indicates that about 40 percent of the urban and 65
percent of the rural population live in absolute poverty. Although a sizeable
urban middle class has emerged, income distribution -- even in urban areas --
is skewed. The latest data available -- a survey undertaken in Quito and
Guayaquil in 1977 -- show that in these two cities about 8 percent of total
income went to the lowest third of the cities' population and about 70 percent
went to the highest third. These two cities account for about 23 percent of
the total population and hence provide an indication of national conditions.
The growth of population, which is estimated at 3.3 percent per year, will
continue to strain the ability of the Government to alleviate poverty through
the provision of social services.
6.        Most of the important reasons for Ecuador's skewed distribution of
income are structural and of long standing. The two most significant are:
(i) highly concentrated ownership of good land and other productive resources;
and (ii) unequal access to public services, especially education, health and
technical assistance.
7.        With regard to the ownership of land -- perhaps the single most
important resource in Ecuador -- 60 percent of the economically active rural
population derives its livelihood from only 11 percent of the land. The
farms that this segment of the population occupies are small -- less than 5
hectares -- and of the poorest quality. Low levels of education, primitive
cultivation techniques, scarce use of technical inputs and limited access to
credit and commercial marketing result in low productivity and incomes. On
average, farms over 10 hectares, produce anywhere from 1.3 to 2 times more
than smaller farms and the income of many small farmers barely exceeds sub-
sistence levels.
8.        Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper classes.
Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers. Tentative esti-
mates indicate that only about 25 percent of total public investment has been
channeled into rural areas (e.g., for agricultural development, education),
where 56 percent of the total population and most of the country's poorest live.
These estimates also show that per capita public expenditures were 5.5 times
higher in the modern sector of the economy than in the traditional one.
9.        The benefits of education, are unequally distributed. According
to official statistics, illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus
around 38 percent in rural areas. Indians, who constitute about one-third
of the population, live primarily in the rural areas, especially in the
Sierra region. While they speak their own languages and have their own
cultural patterns and value systems, the Spanish language and Western culture
predominate in the public schools as well as in local administration and
businesses. Until 1979, illiterates were not allowed to vote.
10.       The Ecuadorian Administration is aware of the need to pursue a
development policy with a strong social component. In rural areas, a
strategy of rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by an emphasis on



integrated rural development. According to the Government's 1980-84 Develop-
ment Plan, public outlays for agriculture are programmed to more than double
during the five-year period in real terms over the preceding five years.
The organization of public services for the rural sector is also under revi-
sion. These and related measures are intended to provide the basis for more
effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Policies
11.       During 1972-80, imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 per-
cent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were: (i) the
high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period and the
related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and
transport sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial
sector; (iii) government imports; and (iii) lately, the growing demand for
some agricultural products. These imports have been stimulated in part by the
high rate of growth of the country, but also by the relative low price of
imported goods as a result of an exchange rate that has remained constant
since 1971.
12.       Real exports of goods on the other hand increased annually by
only 2.2 percent during 1972-80. Export earnings increased mainly because
world prices for Ecuador's exports went up. During 1978 and 1979, especially,
the recovery in world prices of the country's main agricultural exports --
bananas, coffee and cacao -- contributed to keeping exports earnings high.
During 1980, coffee and cacao prices declined, but the price of oil increased
by 42.6 percent, adding an estimated US$456.3 million to the foreign earnings
of Ecuador.
13.       Owing mainly to these favorable developments in oil prices, the
current account deficit in 1980 was held down to the equivalent of 4.1 percent
of GDP. Moreover, because of a rapid increase in net borrowing, net inter-
national reserves increased by approximately US$248 million in 1980 and
towards the end of that year stood at US$929 million, equivalent to four
months of imports of goods and   non factor services.  These levels of reserves
mask an increasingly serious external problem. Ecuador could begin to encounter
significant import capacity constraints beginning in 1985 if the volume of
exports does not increase, as is discussed in para. 17.
14.       Income gains in the 1970's coupled with a slow growth of the
domestic supply of food resulted in inflationary pressures. Monetary and
credit policy, price controls and heavy imports of food staples helped to
curb these pressures. From mid-1977 to mid-1979, the Government introduced
restrictive monetary policies which resulted in a declining rate of growth of
money supply. Net credit to the private sector from the consolidated banking
system followed the same pattern of deceleration during that period. As a
consequence, the annual rise in consumer prices did not surpass 11 percent
in the period 1977-79. In the last 18 months, however, monetary policies have
been less restrictive, and the rate of growth of both money supply and credit
have expanded significantly, adding to inflationary pressures. Moreover,
during 1980 a doubling of the minimum wage (decreed by Congress), well above
the increases in productivity and consumer prices during the previous twelve
months, contributed to an estimated 15 percent rise in consumer prices.



15.       Fiscal policies in the last four years have been expansionary.
After the public sector deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the
Government imposed budgetary restraints on public investment. These restraints,
together with a doubling of world petroleum prices in 1979, helped to bring
the deficit down to 2.0 percent of GDP in that year. In 1980, however, the
newly installed Congress approved a budget higher than that proposed by the
Administration,which increased expenditures of the Central Government by over
30 percent in real terms, increasing the public sector deficit to an estimated
4.3 percent of GDP.
16.       Since the fiscal deficit was financed by external borrowing,
public external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was about twice that
of 1977. Moreover, the terms, maturity and grace periods of the newly
contracted debt hardened as most of it was provided by commercial sources.
Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5 percent in 1975 to 11.8
percent in 1978. The Government made efforts to soften the accumulated debt
by being more careful in the choice of foreign credits and, at the beginning
of 1979, was able to renegotiate US$454 million -- or about one quarter of its
foreign debt -- contracted with commercial banks on the least advantageous
terms. Pre-payment of these hard-term loans during 1979 raised the debt-
service ratio for that year to 29.6 percent. This ratio excluding the one-time
debt prepayment would, however, have been only about 10.7 percent -- one of the
lowest in the Latin American region.
17.       Ecuador's future must be viewed with some caution.  Even though
the country's foreign earnings have grown at an average rate of 23.8 percent
per annum since 1972 because of rising world prices--especially for petroleum--
the volume of exports has increased by only 2.2 percent per year. More signif-
icantly, exports of petroleum, which now account for 54 percent of all exports,
have been decreasing owing to: (i) slowly declining output; and (ii) increased
domestic consumption encouraged by low domestic prices for gasoline and other
petroleum products. Nevertheless, petroleum could still provide the country
with substantial amounts of foreign exchange well into the late eighties if:
(a) oil reserves are increased soon through exploration; and (b) domestic
consumption is curbed as a result of the recent steep increases in domestic
prices of petroleum derivatives. The Government has taken some important
steps in these directions, as mentioned in para 21.
Sectoral Developments
18.       Agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP in 1980, a decline from
23 percent in 1972. This sector has been stagnating since 1974, averaging an
annual increase of growth of only 1.5 percent between 1974 and 1980. Specific
constraints to sector growth are discussed in Part III of this report.
19.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador expanded by 11.2 percent per
year between 1972 and 1980, and at present it accounts for 18.0 percent of
GDP. Linkages between Ecuadorian industry and other sectors of the economy
are weak. Predominantly privately owned, industry has been largely geared to
import-substitution in consumer goods, and has been operating in a strongly
protected environment. This has weakened entrepreneurs' interest in utili-
zing the country's natural resources. Moreover, the system of investment



incentives has biased relative prices against labor and hence has induced
adoption of capital intensive modes of production. As part of the Bank's
policy dialogue with the Government, measures to change these policies
have been discussed. In particular, it may be necessary to modify the protec-
tion system, as well as to revise export incentives and interest rate policies
in order to strengthen sectors with more favorable export prospects and to
reduce the incentives for establishing inefficient industries. The final
design and implementation of these policies could have an important effect on
restructuring the industrial sector, and could result in a more efficient
growth pattern.
20.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: in 1979 it contributed 15.5 percent to Ecuador's GDP,
accounted for 49 percent of export earnings and 26 percent of current Central
Government revenues. Production has averaged about 70 million barrels per
year since 1973. The Government has long been concerned about dwindling
petroleum reserves and in February 1981 announced it would give priQrity
attention to increased exploration and secondary recovery. Expansion of known
reserves through adequate exploration efforts is essential to permit increased
production but the national petroleum company, CEPE, has been short of funds
because oil export revenues have, in the past, largely been diverted to use
other than financing needed investment in exploration. Furthermore, CEPE's
refining capacity has not fully met local demand of some products and the
company's imports of final products (e.g. gasoline and diesel fuel) at
world prices have cost it as much as US$200 million a year.
21.       During the latter part of the seventies, the amount of petroleum
available for export declined because of rapidly rising domestic consumption.
By 1979, one-third of Ecuador's petroleum was consumed domestically compared
to one-seventh in 1973. The growth rate of this consumption, which reached 16
percent, has begun to slow down as a result of lower GDP growth and recent
conservation measures. Specifically the Government raised domestic prices of
petroleum derivatives across the board in February 1981. The price of
regular-grade gasoline which had been selling for US$.19 a gallon since 1972
now retails for US$.60 a gallon. Other fuels, similarly underpriced until
now, have had their prices doubled on average. These and other energy conser-
vation measures--doubling import taxes on energy-inefficient vehicles, for
example--are expected to reduce the growth of demand of domestic consumption
and curb contraband sales to neighboring countries. Recently, the Government
has also prepared new draft contracts in an attempt to renew foreign interest
in petroleum exploration. Finally, CEPE has added marginally to reserves --
now estimated at about one billion barrels -- by drilling a few successful
wells. These actions are expected to free more oil for export and increase
Government revenues by an estimated US$240 million per year to be used in part
for exploration and improvement of social services. Exploration and conserva-
tion have become even more urgent because of the recent substantial drop in
international price of petroleum.
Summary and Outlook
22.       During most of the past decade, the Government of Ecuador directed
the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which generally
corresponded to the needs of the economy and society. It has aLso fostered



- 6 -
a climate conducive to private investment which, in turn, stimulated the
process of industrialization. The Government's use of incentives, however,
was largely inappropriate and ineffective for developing the agricultural
sector and generating employment. Serious distortions have occurred in the
past owing to the very low domestic prices for petroleum derivatives.
23.       The Government, which inherited a host of economic problems, has
taken some corrective measures. The most important of all of these was the
tripling of domestic gasoline prices and doubling of prices of other petroleum
products   (para 21 above).  The Government has also taken steps to bring
other prices more in line with market conditions. In mid-1980 it raised the
price of several agricultural products. In 1981 it increased interest rates
to 12-15 percent for lending and 8-13 percent for savings, depending in each
case on the term of th operation. It has also been considering lowering
export duties on raw cocoa to encourage its production. These are steps in
the right direction and should encourage exports, agricultural production and
domestic savings.
24.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.
To develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government is aiming at a 6.5 per-
cent annual GDP growth rate for the 1980-84 period. In light of current poli-
cies and of the recent sharp drop in the international price of petroleum this
goal seems overambitious. If the Government takes measures alont the lines
suggested earlier in this section aimed at (i) further petroleum conservation;
and (ii) vigorous promotion of exports other than petroleum, growth in the
first half of the 1980's might average some 5 percent annually. This will,
however, entail considerable amounts of external borrowing. In order to reduce
the need for borrowing after the mid-1980s and to lay a basis for resumed
accelerated growth of GDP, oil exploration must be intensified in the very
near future. If these efforts are made, Ecuador's creditworthiness will be
considerably enhanced during the second half of this decade. Meanwhile, in
light of its relatively manageable external debt--Ecuador's debt service ratio
is projected to be about 30 percent in 1984--and given the policy measures
already taken by the Government, Ecuador remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR 1/
25.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. Including the recently approved Puerto Ila-
Chone Rural Development Project, the Bank and IDA have extended 27 loans and
six credits to Ecuador totalling US$459.1 million net of cancellations. As of
April 30, 1981, US$235.8 million of this amount had been disbursed. The IFC
has made six loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company and one
each in a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining company and a pulp and paper
firm. The IFC has also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development
finance company. These operations have amounted to US$27.9 million in commit-
ments of which IFC now holds US$22.8 million.
1/   Updated version of Part II in President's Report P-3036 of April 23, 1981
(Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project).



26.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC operations as of April 30, 1981, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 39 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the expan-
sion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power, which accounts for 4 percent
of total Bank lending, has aimed at improving generation and distribution
facilities in Quito. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program
away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other
loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, four DFC loans and one loan
for small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit
and a loan for education, one loan each for water supply and urban develop-
ment and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for technical
assistance and for the directly productive and social sectors has grown to the
point where it now accounts for about 57 percent of total Bank and IDA lending.
28.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively;
and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor.
In addition to the proposed rural development project, the Bank is preparing
a power transmission project which has also been distributed to the Executive
Directors, a loan for petroleum development, second urban and vocational
training projects and a fifth development banking operation. Most of these
projects would have important institution building aspects and include sizable
technical assistance components.
29.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been by far the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from
IDB to the country as of December 31, 1980 totalled almost US$651 million
equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agriculture,
health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country
have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent
interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate
future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented projects continuing to
account for a large share of its lending program. USAID, which had lent
Ecuador US103.6 million equivalent through 1972 made no new commitments to the
country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, this agency renewed its
operations in the country, concentrating its program in the rural and urban
development sectors and providing about US$30 million in new loans and grants.



- 8 -
30.       As of December 31, 1979, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt,
including undisbursed, amounted to about US$3.1 billion. Bank Group lending
constituted about 9 percent of this amount and absorbed about 2 percent of the
Government's 1979 external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent to about
13 percent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for another 3 percent. Assuming
increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by 1985 the
Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach 17 per-
cent and its share in debt service could climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR 1/
General Characteristics
31.       Agriculture remains one of the most important sectors of the
Ecuadorian economy even though it has stagnated while the petroleum and
industrial sectors have been growing rapidly. While agriculture's contribution
to GDP had dropped from 23 percent in 1972 to 14 percent in 1980, it is still
the single most important source of employment, absorbing close to half of the
labor force. Agricultural exports still accounted for 26 percent of total
exports in 1980, although their importance had declined from 75 percent of
total exports in 1970.
32.       Ecuadorian agriculture has been growing at only 1.5 percent per
annum in the last six years. Higher growth has been constrained by inadequate
infrastructure (mostly roads), insufficient credit availability, world market
price fluctuations for main export crops, and limited farm-level technical
guidance. Domestic food production grew at only 1.9 percent annually between
1972 and 1978, compared to a population increase of 3.3 percent per annum.
As a result, food imports have risen sharply. The Government has intervened
in the marketing of food products both in favor of the producer (by purchasing
at guaranteed prices) and of the consumer (by selling at controlled prices)
through its marketing agencies. Results of this intervention have been mixed
for several reasons: (i) producer prices are set for certain crops without
taking into account relative prices of substitutes, which frequently causes
farmers to switch crops rather than to expand overall area cultivated; (ii)
the marketing agencies are limited in scope and efficiency and only influence
supply and demand marginally; (iii) farmers often continue to deal with
private intermediaries, accepting in the process unofficial prices; and (iv)
prices of some competing imported goods are lower than the costs of the
domestically produced goods. For example, powdered milk and wheat subsidized
by exporting countries is imported at prices which compete with domestic
production of fresh milk and wheat. Bank staff reviewed general agricultural
policies of Ecuador during the recent economic mission and initial conclusions
confirm the patterns described above. In the near future, the Bank will be
intensifying its dialogue with the Government in the agricultural policy area,
based on the findings of this mission and follow-up analyses.
1/   Substantially unchanged, except for para 32, from Part III of President's
Report P-3036-EC of April 23, 1981 (Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development
Project).



33.       Topographic and climatic conditions divide Ecuador into three
distinct agricultural regions. The tropical, generally humid and floodprone
Costa is where most of the country's agricultural exports--bananas, cocoa and
coffee--are grown. Sugar cane, beef ranching, rice, oil palm and fibers are
also concentrated in the Costa. Half of Ecuador's population lives in this
region, although some coastal areas are still being settled.  The second of
these regions is the densely populated Sierra where temperate climate food-
grains, potatoes, vegetables and deciduous fruits are grown.  Most of Ecuador's
dairy farms and sheep herds are also located in the Sierra. The third and
most isolated region is the sparsely populated Oriente, the rain forest to the
east of the Andes which is part of the Amazon basin. While the Oriente presently
contributes little to sectoral output, it is slowly being settled and is known
to have considerable potential for beef, rice, and oil palm production.
34.       About 57 percent of Ecuador's population are rural dwellers and most
of these are also poor. An estimated 2.9 million of the 4.4 million persons
living in rural areas in 1979 had per capita incomes below the absolute
poverty level, which the Bank's recent economic mission estimated to be
around US$315 per annum. Furthermore, there is evidence that small farmers'
incomes have experienced almost no growth during the past decade. For instance,
crop production has been the slowest growing agricultural activity, compared
to livestock and fisheries, and small-scale producers predominate in this
sub-sector. While other sources, such as non-farm earnings and income trans-
fers from urban relatives, may have augmented the incomes of farm families,
the core of rural incomes--farm production--has been virtually stagnant for
most small-scale farmers.
35.       Living conditions for most of Ecuador's rural population are pre-
carious. The rate of adult literacy in rural areas is 65 percent and many
children in rural areas are, in effect, barred from receiving an education
because they live at great distances from schools. An estimated 87 percent
of rural families do not have access to safe water supplies or sanitation
facilities. Health services in rural areas are generally poor and the rela-
tively few local hospitals and dispensaries tend to be badly equipped and
understaffed. Rural infant mortality rates are as high as 100 per 1,000 live
births, while the registered national average is 66 per 1,000 births. Water-
borne infections are widespread and lead to a high incidence of illness and
death. Transport in rural areas is also a serious problem. Although Ecuador
has a relatively good main road system, its feeder road network is deficient.
In addition, many of the existing feeder roads become impassable during
prolonged periods of rain. These conditions hamper the flow of goods and
people into and out of rural areas.
Institutional Framework
36.       Successive Governments have allocated considerable financial and human
resources to public sector institutions responsible for agricultural development.
Despite this Ecuador has been unable to overcome prolonged stagnation in the
sector. National level policy formulation efforts have been inadequate and the
resulting lack of policy direction has generated duplication between national
and regional bodies, overlapping responsibilities and uncoordinated responses



- 10 -
37.       The principal sector institutions include the Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock (HAG) and its dependencies in charge of agricultural research,
water resources and irrigation, agrarian reform and colonization and develop-
ment of the Amazon area. The functions and performance of MAG and its research
and agrarian reform agencies are discussed below. Four semi-independent
regional development organizations also exist and have carried out significant
multi-sector development activities. Two state-owned marketing enterprises
purchase and sell food items and buy agricultural products to help stabilize
the market and assure consumers a supply of reasonably priced basic food
items. The National Development Bank (BNF) is the major supplier of agricul-
tural credit. In late 1980, the Government created a new institution, the
Integrated Rural Development Secretariat (SEDRI) with a complementary Inte-
grated Rural Development Fund (FONADRI), to improve inter-agency coordination
and facilitate rural development efforts. SEDRI's operational responsibilities
include program planning, project preparation, channelling of funds and
managing execution of rural development projects. SEDRI reports directly to
the President, and is thus expected to enjoy a certain amount of influence.
It will work through project units assigned to each site with a core group of
managerial and administrative staff in Quito.
38.       MAG is responsible for sector policy formulation and for executing
extension, marketing, research, irrigation and land settlement programs
(the latter three through its specialized dependencies). As mentioned,
its efforts to date in the policy field have fallen short of those needed
to stimulate agriculture out of its current stagnation. MAG administers its
programs through a network of provincial and zonal offices. The Ministry's
participation in rural development will occur both through placement of staff
in field offices, to work under guidance of the SEDRI project director for
the respective sites, and through secondment of its staff to SEDRI head-
quarters and project units.
39.       The Ministry's National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP) evolved
into an important institution and attracted widespread international support
following its founding in 1959. The Bank Group has provided financing for
INIAP activities through Credit 222-EC (FY1971) and Loan 501-EC (FY 1967), both
for livestock development, and through a seeds project (Loan 1229-EC of March
1976). Years of applied research have permitted INIAP to develop a good
technical basis for providing practical advice on increasing agricultural
productivity. In particular, INIAP has contributed to developing new varieties
and production techniques for cocoa, coffee, oil palm, cassava, potatoes and
corn as well as swine. In transmitting the results of this research to the
farmers, however, progress has not been as good, and ways of improving linkages
with HAG extension agents are being explored by the Government.
40.       To reduce skewed land distribution patterns (see para 7), the
Ecuadorian Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization (IERAC) has sought to
improve access to agricultural land for lower-income groups since its establish-
ment in 1964. In general, IERAC has been more successful in supporting land
settlement than expropriation and redistribution. Some 100,000 peasant families
have been settled in colonization areas while land reform has benefited 66,000
families. Although it has not been able to control spontaneous settlement,
IERAC has been able to achieve a uniform distribution of land in new settle-
ment areas where it has intervened (such as the region where the proposed
project would be carried out), and has granted provisional titles to settlers.



- 11 -
41.       Institutional credit to the agricultural sector grew rapidly in
the seventies, from about US$66 million in 1971 to about US$236 million
in 1979. Despite this rapid expansion, as much as 90 percent of farmers do
not have access to institutional credit, although many receive informal credit
from suppliers, family or money lenders. About 53 percent of formal agricul-
tural credit is provided by the BNF and the remainder by commercial banks.
BNF has a network of 65 branch offices and 10 agencies throughout the
country. In 1979, it lent US$125 million for agricultural investments.
In general, about 70 percent of its loans are short term and the remainder
medium and long term. BNF has made a valuable contribution to agricul-
tural development in Ecuador. However, management problems occurred during
the 1970's, a time when BNF's operations greatly expanded as a result of
sudden inflows of petroleum revenues. Portfolio deterioration ensued.
A rescheduling of BNF's debt in 1977 and 1978--together with Government
capital contributions-- enabled the agency to maintain a constant lending
level and to cover its operating costs. In 1979, new management was appointed
and, with IDB and FAO assistance, has been strengthening its operations and
branch offices while automating BNF accounts.
42.       Construction of Ecuador's  secondary and feeder road system has,
until recently, been undertaken by provincial authorities and by specialized
agencies, with inadequate coordination from the Ministry of Public Works
(MOP). Recently MOP created a Feeder Road Unit in conjunction with the
Bank-financed Sixth Highways Project (Loan 1882-EC of June 1980) to improve
that coordination. A manual for feeder road design and improvements, prepared
under the Fifth Highways Project (1429-EC of May 1977), has been adopted by
MOP for preparation of feeder road improvements. These steps are expected to
facilitate the eventual improvement of the rural road system to which MOP has
paid relatively little attention in the past.
43.       Social services coverage in the rural area is lower than in the
urban zones, in part because infrastructure is unevenly distributed but also
because the facilities in rural areas are underutilized. Staff and supplies
are less available to rural schools and health posts, on the one hand, and
cultural and economic constraints inhibit their use by many rural families.
The Ministry of Public Health became responsible for rural health in 1977. It
is developing a regionalized system of health promoters, posts, subcenters and
centers, with hospitals at the provincial level. Construction of rural water
supply systems is the responsibility of IEOS, the Ecuadorian Institute of
Sanitary Works. Although moderately effective in the past, recent reorganiza-
tions have reduced IEOS' effectiveness in planning and constructing new
systems. With respect to rural education, the Ministry of Education is respon-
sible for delivery of services, but no special institutional unit exists to
attend specifically to rural needs. Schools are built by the Ministry of
Education's school construction directorate (DINACE) while curriculum, staffing
and operation (urban and rural) are handled by its Directorate of National
Education.
Prospects and Strategy
44.       The 1980-84 Development Plan gives priority attention to agriculture;
its aim is for the country to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and



- 12 -
increase agricultural exports. As mentioned in para 23, actions in support of
these objectives have been limited so far to increases in certain food prices
to provide incentives to producers. The Government is seeking assistance from
international donors for grain storage and marketing programs and plans are
underway for rehabilitation of cocoa plantings and other traditional exports.
Rural development is treated separately in the Plan as an important tool for
achieving: (i) a more equitable distribution of income and better living
standards; (ii) participation of isolated population groups in the development
process; and (iii) better use of the country's renewable resource potential,
particularly for food production. Seventeen rural development projects are
included in the Plan, including the Tungurahua and Puerto Ila-Chone projects
financed by the Bank's first two rural development loans (1644-EC of December
1978 and 1991-EC of May 1981).
Bank Group Lending
45.       In order to help overcome some of the constraints mentioned in para-
graph 32, Bank Group lending for agriculture has concentrated on institution-
building, especially for improved technical assistance to farmers, and on
providing credit, infrastructure and services to small farmers. To strengthen
systematic preparation of projects for improved agricultural development, Bank
lending has also supported planning and pre-investment studies in the sector.
The nine loans and credits made to date for agricultural projects total
US$81.6 million. Nearly 40 percent of our lending in the sector--four loans
and credits for US$31 million--has helped finance credit projects. The first
three of these, Loan 501-EC (of May 1967), Credit 173-EC (of September 1969)
and Credit 222-EC (of November 1970), have now been fully disbursed and
focused on Ecuador's livestock industry. They provided credit and intensive
technical assistance to a relatively small group of progressive ranchers.
The projects were well-managed and executed. A Project Performance Audit
Report issued on October 21, 1975 for the first two credit operations indicates
that they achieved a 6 percent increase in Ecuador's beef cattle herd.
However, the operations increased the use of capital-intensive technology, and
mainly benefited large producers. The Project Performance Audit Report for
Credit 222-EC was issued in November 1979 and concludes that project objectives
for beef and milk production were substantially met. Again, however, middle-
and higher-income producers benefited most. In order to spread benefits more
broadly, the fourth agricultural credit project (Loan 1459-EC approved on June
14, 1977) aims not only to continue promoting livestock but also to spur the
development of crop farms and small agro-industries. This loan is experiencing
satisfactory progress after nearly two years of delays in disbursements. Funds
allocated to medium- and large-scale farmers were quickly committed but small
farmer and agroindustry components are moving more slowly because of the
limited capacities of MAG and participating banks to identify subprojects
among these groups. A lack of counterpart funds has also slowed project
execution.
46.       IDA also extended a US$5.5 million credit (425-EC) in 1973 for an
irrigation project in the Milagro area of the Costa; this operation terminated
in 1980.  In March 1976, the Bank approved two agricultural projects:   a US$3
million loan to improve seeds (Loan 1229-EC) and a US$4 million technical
assistance operation (Loan 1230-EC) to aid in preparation of rural development



- 13 -
projects. This latter effort resulted in the first Bank-financed rural devel-
opment effort, the Tungurahua project (Loan 1644-EC for US$18 million approved
in FY1979), which is getting underway. Bank financing for a second rural
development project--Puerto Ila-Chone--was recently approved; the proposed
third rural development project is similar to the Puerto Ila-Chone operation
in terms of project area and design. Details on the status of each of the
active agricultural projects are found in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       Preliminary identification of the proposed project was made in 1975.
The Organization of American States (OAS) assisted Ecuador's Government to
study development of the Esmeraldas River basin and out of this study the area
for the proposed project was defined. The feasibility study, completed in
July 1980, was prepared by an inter-institutional group directed by MAG with
participation of OAS experts and the IBRD-FAO Cooperative Program. The
project was appraised in November 1980. The appraisal mission's report
(3439-EC dated June 22, 1981) entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Esmeraldas
Rural Development Project (Quininde, Malimpia, Nueva Jerusalem)" is being
distributed separately. Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington, D.C. from June 18 to 19,
1981 and the Ecuadorian delegation was headed by Mr. Chiriboga, the head of
SEDRI and also included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the
Attorney General's office.
The Project Area
48.       The project area incorporates around 94,200 ha of the Coastal
Province of Esmeraldas, in the northwestern corner of the country (see map
15619). Beginning in the 1970's, the zone was colonized by spontaneous
settlers in 20 ha to 50 ha parcels. The area is flat with three large rivers
crossing it; elevation ranges from 200 to 400 meters; drainage is favorable;
fertility is moderate to high and soils are generally suitable for tree crops
and pasture, although subject to erosion if left uncovered. The climate is
humid-tropical. Annual rainfall is between 2,500 mm and 3,500 mm, concentrated
in the December to July period. There are no physical constraints to high
crop production in the zone. However, 12,000 ha in the project area are part
of a forestry concession which has been little exploited and currently is
occupied by some 230 squatter families.
49.       In 1980, about 28,000 persons (5,100 families) were living in the
area, which has experienced high immigration with a population growth rate in
recent years of 9.0 percent p.a.. About 8,000 inhabitants live in the town of
Quininde; the rest of the population is rural. The Cayapas Indian population
in the project area includes some 165 families. The larger cities of Santo
Domingo de los Colorados to the southeast and Esmeraldas on the Coast to the
northwest are the regional commercial and business centers.



- 14 -
50.       For 4,100 families in the project area, agriculture is the main
source of income. Another 1,000 families provide services in the area. Of
the agricultural families, 2,567 families own their land and the rest are
headed by relatives of land holders or by transient farm workers. Of the
2,567 farms, 456 are under 10 ha, another 969 are 10 to 30 ha in size; 997 are
between 30 and 50 ha and 145 are larger than 50 ha. Few informal land transfers
have occurred and an estimated 53 percent of the farmers, including the
Cayapas Indiana, have legal or provisional land titles they are, therefore,
eligible for long-term credit. Another 37 percent have yet to begin the
process of obtaining titles, while about 10 percent are in the forestry
concession and have undefined legal status until the concession contract is
cancelled (see para 57).
51.       Agricultural land use is divided among crops (25 percent), pasture
(12 percent) and forest (58 percent) with 5 percent roads and riverbeds.
Much of the crop production in the project area is suitable for export (coffee,
cocoa). An industrial oil palm plantation is also located in the project
zone. Agricultural development by spontaneous settlers is generally limited by
inadequate access, and lack of agricultural extension services and credit.
Farmers' agricultural techniques are deficient and, consequently, yields are
low. Thus, although farm owners have adequate land for the most part, their
agricultural earnings are still limited.
52.       Average family incomes are estimated to be US$952 (US$173 per
capita) for farms up to 10 ha; US$1,715 (US$312 per capita) for farms 11 to
30 ha; and US$2,072 (US$377 per capita) for 30 to 50 ha. The landless families
have average incomes of US$230 per capita. These families have regular,
seasonal work in the oil palm plantations in the zone, which although limited,
permits them to have slightly higher incomes than the smallest landholders.
Data on incomes of larger farmers (over 50 ha.) are not available, but credit
under the project will be limited to those holding land up to 75 ha. Among
Ecuador's rural population, those having per capita incomes of US$315 or lower
are considered to be living in absolute poverty (see para 34).
53.       Infrastructure and social services in the area are limited.  As a
result, the general standard of living is unsatisfactory. Sanitary and water
facilities are limited to the town of Quininde. Existing primary health facili-
ties (2 health subcenters and one center) are poorly equipped and operating
in rented spaces. A 20-bed hospital serving the entire areas is also poorly
equipped and staffed. Both gastro-intestinal and respiratory illnesses are
endemic and most of the population, especially children, suffer from malnutri-
tion. There are 56 primary schools in the zone. A reported 44 percent of the
population is unschooled and more are, in fact, functionally illiterate. Most
of the 114 km of roads in the area are only seasonally passable. The three
rivers running through the project area substantially limit access by road,
although they provide a natural means of communication via small boats. MAG's
agricultural service agency in Quininde, which is responsible for extension
services in the project area, is currently inadequately staffed and financed.
A nearby MAG hog-breeding station, suffering from deteriorating facilities,
will be improved through the recently approved loan for rural development in
Puerto Ila-Chone (Loan 1991-EC). The BNF branch office at Quininde is the only
source of agricultural credit in the project area.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
54.       The objective of the proposed project is to improve incomes and
living standards of 5,100 rural families by enabling them to expand agricul-
tural production and by providing an improved basic social infrastructure in
the project area. It would be the Bank's third integrated rural development
effort in Ecuador and, like the first two, is expected to be executed over a
six-year period.
55.       The proposed project would include:
(a) carrying out of an efficient agricultural extension program;
(b) provision of medium- and long-term agricultural credit to finance
on-farm investments, home improvements and hygienic facilities, and
short-term credit for production working capital;
(c) carrying out of a land titling legalization program to provide
firm land titles for around 2,050 production units;
(d) construction or improvement of about 230 km of feeder roads,
construction of two bridges, and establishment and operation
of a road maintenance program;
(e) construction of an administrative center, four marketing facilities,
and eight community centers.
(f) implementation of a primary health care program including construc-
tion of health and village water supply facilities, training of
health promoters, encouragement of community participation and
carrying out of a nutritional subprogram;
(g) rehabilitation of 21 and construction of 55 schoolrooms, as
well as of living quarters for teachers and water supply and
hygiene facilities;
(h) operation by SEDRI of a project executing unit; and
(i) preparation of a second rural development project in Esmeraldas
Province.
56.       The extension program, together with project administration, would
account for 14 percent of project costs. Extension would be directed toward
improving: (a) crop production; (b) pasture management; (c) hog production;
and (d) soil conservation and forestation practices. Extension agents would
also promote participation of farm women and assist them to organize income
generating projects such as cheese production. The extension program would
introduce and disseminate agricultural techniques already developed by INIAP
and encourage development of farmers' organizations. MAG's swine breeding
center at Santo Domingo, being improved under the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural
Development Project would provide the piglets necessary for this component.
Seedlings for forestation will be provided through the MAG nurseries in Santo



- 16 -
Domingo and Quininde. The extension program would provide training in commu-
nity development, farm management and record keeping. To encourage greater
farmer participation in project management and in marketing and processing of
their produce, existing informal organizations would be strengthened so
that farmers themselves could manage the service centers to be constructed
under the project. Farmers are expected to sell agricultural produce to
middlemen or market it in Quininde for further distribution to urban or export
centers. Population growth in the region is expected to generate sufficient
demand for the incremental production farmers will provide under the project.
However, to improve marketing conditions, the project would also support
a Farmers' Marketing Union, which would have mixed Government-farmer ownership.
57.       To address the needs of the approximately 47 percent of landholders
who currently do not have legal title (and who, therefore, are not eligible to
obtain long-term credit from BNF), IERAC would carry out a land titling program.
Under the program, accounting for 2 percent of project costs, IERAC would also
assist 900 farmowners holding only provisional titles to their original
parcels to complete the titling process. By the end of the project period,
IERAC would have assisted 2,050 farmers. In order to make land titling
possible and project benefits available to the 230 squatter families living in
the forestry concession, the Government is in the process of rescinding
the concession contract. This action is expected to take about one year
Until the process is completed, the concession area would be excluded from
the project (Section 1.02(q) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       About 45 percent of project expenditures would be for agricultural
credit -- the largest single component -- to be made available through BNF
to eligible farmers holding up to 75 ha. of land. Short-term credit would
finance farm operations and maintenance, annual crop production and hog
fattening. Medium- and long-term credit would finance renovation and rehabil-
itation of tree crops, pasture development, purchase of forestry seedlings,
construction of on-farm facilities for livestock and coffee and cocoa bean
processing and home improvements including construction of hygiene facilities.
Terms and conditions for this credit are discussed in paragraphs 71 to 72.
59.       Under the project, the internal feeder road network in the project
area would be improved and completed. About 23 percent of project expenditures
would be allocated for this purpose. Specifically, the proposed loan would
help finance upgrading of 128 km of dirt roads to all-season standards, and
building of 102 km of new roads, for a total of 230 km. Two bridges would
also be built under the project: a 100-m span over the Guayllabamba River and
a 40-m bridge over the Cupa River. The road improvements to be carried out
under the proposed project consist of meeting minimum requirements for permanent
access, including road widening and graveling as well as the repair or construc-
tion of drains, culverts and bridges. A systematic maintenance program would
also be initiated with the support of equipment purchased under the project.
The network, when complete, should provide year round access to production
areas.
60.       A number of service centers would be constructed under the proposed
project. As headquarters for the project unit, including the extension staff,
an administrative center would be built in Quininde. Four marketing centers
would be constructed and one of these equipped for processing coffee and



- 17 -
cacao. Finally, eight community centers to be constructed under the project
would provide villages with space for meetings, training courses and basic
services. Three percent of project costs would be allocated to this component.
61.       The health services component, accounting for seven percent of
total costs, includes training and deployment of rural health promoters,
construction and equipping of two health subcenters and seven health posts,
and rehabilitation and equipping of the Quininde hospital. Where possible,
health centers would be part of the community centers. In two villages of
500 people or more, water supply systems would be built. About 15 water
units, including shallow wells with pumps, lavatories, showers and laundries,
and 21 other shallow wells would service more scattered populations. Benefi-
ciaries would be expected to participate in the construction of these facili-
ties. As a condition precedent to construction of these water works,
communities would form committees charged with administering, operating and
maintaining the water supply systems and with contributing -- in labor, cash
or kind -- 20 percent of the cost of these systems (Section 3.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In villages, beneficiaries would also pay for household
water connections. The project would assist 945 farmers to construct latrines
(for which financing of materials and equipment would be available through BNF
subloans as part of the on-farm development credit component). Finally, a
survey of nutritional habits in the project area would be carried out and a
nutrition improvement program initiated.
62.       The component of social infrastructure -- equivalent to about
5 percent of project costs -- would include the constructions of 55 new
schoolrooms and sanitary units as well as 55 living quarters for teachers.
Also, 21 existing schoolrooms would be rehabilitated in accordance with
standard designs and using local materials. Equipment and teaching materials
would also be provided and the Ministry of Education would assign 12 new
teachers to area schools.
63.       Finally, the Project Unit, with the help of consultants satisfac-
tory to the Bank (approximately 36 person-months), would conduct preparation
and feasibility studies for a second rural development project in another
area of Esmeraldas Province. About one percent of project costs would
be required for this component.
Project Implementation
64.       SEDRI would have overall responsibility for coordinating and
assuring implementation of the proposed project. A project unit for this
purpose was created in May 1981 and would be adequately staffed by no later
than March 1, 1982 (Section 3.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project
Unit's functions, responsibility and staffing would be satisfactory to the
Bank. Staff would include, in addition to a project unit director, audit and
legal staff, specialists in planning and evaluation, and departments of
production, campesino development and engineering. The technical staff,
seconded to the unit from MAG and other participating agencies, would assist
the director in day-to-day operations. An advisory Committee would be formed
of representatives of provincial and local authorities and of participating
agencies, to advise the Director regarding project implementation. This
Committee would meet at least once every six months.



- 18 -
65.       To strengthen the Project Unit, by September 30, 1982, two inter-
nationally-recruited consultants would be on board, one to assist the director
to organize the project unit, and another to help develop marketing mechanisms.
They would be retained for 24 months each at an estimated cost of US$10,000
per month. These consultants' qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment, as well as those of short-term consultants hired under the project,
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education and Public Works, the Esmeraldas
Provincial Council (CPE), and the institutes of land reform, agricultural
research and sanitation would all participate in the execution of project
components (as described below) and would enter into implementation agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with SEDRI to define their respective responsibilities
and necessary administrative arrangements (Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Signature of these agreements would be a condition of disbursement
for each respective component (Schedule 1, para 4 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
66.       MAG and INIAP would staff, by March 31, 1982, a specialized extension
service, satisfactory to the Bank, in the project unit to provide technical and
organizational assistance to farmers (Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The service would have crop, livestock, forestry, marketing and
farmer organization specialists on duty as well as 10 extension agents.
Internationally recruited short-term consultants would assist the project unit
in organization of project accounts, monitoring and farm management. Consul-
tants to be hired under the Puerto Ila-Chone project for crop improvement
would also assist the Esmeraldas extension service. Altogether, 24 person-
months of short-term technical assistance are contemplated to assist the
extension service, at an average cost of US$10,000 per month.
67.       IERAC would carry out the land titling program through its Quininde
zonal office. It would reinforce its field staff with at least twelve
professionals and establish a special system for monitoring the process
of land titling. In accordance with Ecuadorian law, IERAC would also monitor
the exchanges of landholdings to assure that parcels are not broken down into
uneconomic-size units. As indicated in para 50, most farms are currently
adequate in size, having between 10 and 50 ha.
68.       The project unit would be responsible for organizing and construct-
ing, through contractors, the service centers. Marketing facilities for
coffee and cocoa would be operated by the Farmers Marketing Union to be set up
under the project. The other three (public) markets and the community centers
would be operated by local authorities. Organization of satisfactory adminis-
trative entities for these centers would be a condition of initiating their
construction (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       The feeder road construction, improvement and maintenance activities
would be the joint responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), and
the CPE. MOP would, through consultants, prepare road and bridge designs.
CPE would carry out civil works for construction and improvement through
contracts. CPE would also be responsible for the road maintenance program,
under MOP supervision and according with MOP standards, following a model



- 19 -
established under the Sixth Highway Project (1882-EC of FY80). Maintenance
equipment purchased under the proposed project would be owned by MOP but
operated CPE. An agreement, satisfactory to the Bank spelling out these
responsibilities would be signed by MOP and CPE (Section 3.13 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
70.       The Ministry of Public Health's Institute of Sanitary Works (IEOS)
would construct health facilities and, together with the beneficiaries, would
construct the water supply and sewage systems in accordance with IEOS standards
which are acceptable to the Bank. The Health Ministry would be responsible for
planning, staffing and operating the health facilities and for training medical
and paramedical personnel, including two physicians, ten auxiliary nurses and
twelve health promoters. The Ministry of Public Education would be responsible
for the school program, while the CPE would construct the schoolrooms and
other facilities, under contract.
On-lending Arrangements
71.       The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and would
channel the loan funds available for credit in Sucres to BNF on the same terms
as the Bank loan through a subsidiary loan agreement. This subsidiary agreement
would spell out terms and conditions of the subloans, would be satisfactory to
the Bank, and its signature would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sec-
tions 3.01(c) and 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government's
contribution to the credit component would be in the form of a 17-year interest-
free loan to BNF. The resulting blend of funds would provide BNF a margin of
at least 6 percentage points, which would be adequate to cover administrative
costs and risks and encourage BNF to expand small farmer lending. BNF would
finance short-term credit with its own resources and through rediscounts with
the Central Bank. It would administer the credit program through its Quininde
office, which would be strengthened with additional staff. Farm investment
plans would be prepared by BNF staff in cooperation with agricultural extension
agents in accordance with guidelines to be prepared by BNF. Completion of
these guidelines would be a condition of disbursement for the credit compo-
nent (Schedule 1, para 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). BNF would evaluate the
creditworthiness of subborrowers and approve loans to them.
72.       Sub-loan terms for medium and long-term lending are expected to vary
from three to twelve years depending on the type of investment, with grace
periods of one to three years. BNF would finance up to 90 percent of invest-
ment costs for small-scale farmers, with subloans for medium-size farmers
(41-75 ha. farm size) covering only up to 80 percent of investment costs
(Annex to Schedule 6 of the draft Loan Agreement). For purposes of credit,
small-scale farmers are defined as those with net assets of up to US$30,000
equivalent including land (but not houses) and no more than 40 ha. of land
Fifty percent of the credit component would be earmarked for small-scale
farmers (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       Interest rates for medium and long term credit (including allowable
commissions) would be no less than 12 percent for small-scale farmers and
no less than 15 percent for other beneficiaries (Annex to Schedule 6 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Annual inflation between 1977 and 1979 averaged



- 20 -
about 11 percent. In 1980, however, it rose to 15 percent partly as a result
of a doubling of the minimum wage. For 1981, inflation is expected to be in
the 15 to 20 percent range as the large fuel price increases take effect (par&
21). For 1982-84, when changes in wages, fuel prices and tariffs are expected
to be more gradual, inflation is estimated to stay within the 15 percent per
year range, providing monetary and fiscal policies are not expansive. Thus,
the real interest for small farmers would be slightly negative, while for
others it would be near zero. This is acceptable both because of the relative
poverty of the beneficiaries of the proposed project and because the 12 percent
interest rate represents a continued increase over the 9 percent interest rate
charged under the Government's regular small farmer credit programs. Earlier
Bank loans (1459-EC and 1644-EC) had provided for a transitional 11 percent
interest charge to the small farmer group. The Government and BNF are
required, under the proposed loan, to annually review the subloan rates and
charges under the project in consultation with the Bank and, if necessary,
to revise them in line with changes in inflation (Section 3.10 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
74.       The project's total cost, net of import duties, is estimated to be
US$48.5 million. Taxes -- about US$400,000 -- are included in total costs.
The public sector agencies involved are exempt from paying duties for goods
imported for the project. Contingencies were calculated as follows: physical
contingencies for civil works: 15 percent, for other components: 10 percent.
Price contingencies were estimated at from 18 percent in 1981 to 12 percent
in 1985 for local costs and from 9 percent in 1981 to 7.5 percent in 1985 for
foreign costs. The foreign exchange component is about US$13.6 million or
27 percent of project costs. The proposed loan of US$17.0 million would cover
35 percent of project costs. This would include, in addition to foreign
exchange, about US$3.4 million in local expenditures which is justifiable,
because of the low foreign exchange component of the project, in order to
permit a reasonably significant Bank contribution. The Government would
finance US$26.1 million, or 53 percent, of project costs and the beneficiaries
would contribute in cash, kind or labor, the balance of about US$5.9 million.
To ensure that necessary resources would be available for project start-up,
the Government would, as a condition of loan effectiveness, establish and
maintain a special project account of the equivalent of US$500,000 to serve as
a revolving fund (Section 6.01(a) and 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The revolving fund, which would be replenished by the proposed loan and
Government contributions, would ensure uninterrupted financing for this
operation.
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       Civil works -- including construction and improvement of feeder
roads and bridges, agricultural extension facilities, service centers, health
and sanitation infrastructure and schools -- are expected to cost about US$6.7
million, excluding contingencies. Since these individual items are of low
cost and in scattered locations, it is unlikely that foreign contractors



- 21 -
would be interested in them. Instead, most would be carried out by local
contractors who have sufficient capacity to do the job. Thus, these contracts
would be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. To encourage competition, roads and bridge contracts
would be grouped in lots of about US$500,000. All works contracts for US$150,000
or more would be reviewed by the Bank before award. Works costing less than
US$150,000 -- up to an aggregate of US$1 million -- could be by force account
or negotiated contract in accordance with (i) local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) annual construction and procurement plans acceptable to the
Bank. Goods to be purchased under the project would amount to US$1.6 million.
All operation and maintenance equipment, and other goods valued at US$150,000
or more would be procured through international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank Group guidelines. Except for road operation and maintenance
equipment, equipment valued at under US$150,000 (up to an aggregate of US$600,000)
could be procured using local procedures acceptable to the Bank, including
obtaining at least three quotations for goods of more than US$50,000 and
negotiated contracts for goods costing US$50,000 or less.
76.       Disbursements, to take place over seven years, would be made against:
(i) 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works and buildings; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or, for locally procured imported goods, 80
percent of local expenditures, for equipment, vehicles and materials; (iii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 45 percent of local expenditures for
training and consultants; and (iv) 55 percent of medium- and long-term subloans
disbursed by BNF to participating farmers. Normal documentation would be
required for disbursements other than for works carried out by force account,
BNF subloans and local training courses. For these exceptions, statements of
expenditure would be sufficient although full documentation would be maintained
for Bank review in project files in the country.
Project Benefits
77.       Some 2,400 small- and medium-scale farmers and their families would
directly benefit from the project by means of improved incomes and standards
of living. Farm family incomes are expected to increase in real terms between
four and seven times on the average at full development. Further additions to
farm income are expected to result from the cash-generating activities to
be initiated by rural women. About 950,000 person-days of labor per year are
expected to be generated as a result of the project. About 610 families
would gain access to improved water supply and 945 families to sewage units.
Area children would have better access to primary schools. The completion of
the feeder road network would benefit all 5,100 families in the area by
providing better communications and transport opportunities. Furthermore, the
project is an important step in institution building for SEDRI, whose success
is important if the country is to pursue the rural development goals it has
set. The proposed project, which SEDRI would manage from start to finish,
would serve as a technical and administrative model for replication in other
areas.



- 22 -
78.       Based on expected agricultural production increases, the economic
rate of return for the components with quantifiable benefits (representing
89 percent of total base costs) is estimated at 22 percent. This includes all
components supporting improved agricultural production. The sensitivity
analysis shows that a one year delay in benefits or 20 percent increase in
costs would result in an economic return on those components for which benefits
are quantifiable of 17 and 18 percent, respectively. The nutrition, health
and sanitation components do not have easily quantifiable benefits but would
help to reduce malnutrition and disease, especially gastroenteric illnesses
prevalent in the area. The expanded primary education coverage for rural
children should raise attendance rates to 95 percent and reduce teacher-pupil
ratios to 1:35.
79.       Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by the project unit
through its office of planning and monitoring. Specific attention would be
paid to: (a) coverage and effectiveness of the extension service; (b) impact
of agricultural credit; (c) IERAC performance in land titling; (d) feeder road
contributions to improved access; (e) impact of health and education services;
and (f) impact of the project on women beneficiaries.
Project Risks
80.       Technical risks are low because agricultural techniques are known,
expected yields reasonable, and the feeder roads and infrastructure are
relatively simple. Moreover, SEDRI's creation should improve interagency
coordination and execution, a frequent problem in the past in complex multi-
sector projects in Ecuador. SEDRI's lack of experience could, however, create
delays, particularly in initial stages of the proposed project. This risk
should be minimal since several international agencies, including USAID and
FAO, are currently providing technical assistance to SEDRI to assist in its
effective start-up. The Esmeraldas Provincial Council's strong support and
participation in planning of this project should also help assure rapid
execution. With respect to other risks, previous Bank experience with MAG
extension, BNF credit and IERAC titling services indicates that careful
supervision and monitoring by both the Bank and the project unit would
be required to assure timely execution of their respective components. This
expanded supervision is provided for under the project. Additional staffing
and funding of the regional offices of all three of these institutions,
required under the proposed project, should also enhance their effectiveness.
Finally, technical assistance would be made available under the project to
strengthen extension services and project management.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 23 -
82.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans
for rural development projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness would be that (i) a special project account
be established and that US$500,000 equivalent be deposited therein by the
Government and (ii) a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Government and BNF be signed. The signature of implementation
agreements between SEDRI and each of the participating agencies concerned
would be a condition of disbursement for their respective components, and
the preparation by BNF of satisfactory guidelines for credit applications
would be a condition of disbursement for the credit component.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments,
June 30, 1981
Washington, D. C.



- 24 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUAD0R-tSOCIAL IDDICATSRS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                     ItEUEUCE GRCWS (WRIMD AUAFK S
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.M)                                                   -  OST RECCEN  ESTKTE )L
TOTAL           A.6                                 ItST RECENT            MIDDE III                     INCONE
AGRICULTURAL     51.7              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTDIATE /b   LATIN AMERICA A CAEIDBEM          lCtrE
GNP PER CAPITA (USe)                   ..       390.0   1050.0                  1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT).   206.3       316.9    654.1                  1324.1                  2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4413.0      6015.0   8081.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4       39.5      44.0                   64.2                     53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      15.6        21.2     28.5                    34.3                    80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    93.5       123.1    151.0                    94.5                   133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.4        45.4     44.5                    40.7                    30.1
15-64 YRS.                        52.0       50.8      51.9                    55.3                    61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6         3.8      3.6                     4.0                     8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.1/c     3.3                    2.4                      1.5
URBAN                             4.8         4.5      4.5                     3.7                     3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5        43.0     40.3                    31.4                    22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.7        10.6      9.6                     8.4                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2      3.0                     2.3                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         9.0     32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..       6.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        104.0       101.0    100.0                   108.3                   119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  84.0        91.0     92.0                   107.6                   125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        52.0     50.0                    65.8                    92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      26.0        27.0     25.0                    34.0                    39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    22.8        15.7     10.3                     7.6                     3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0        56.2     61.0                    64.1                    68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         140.0       118.0     66.0                    70.9                    25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-        34.0     42.0                    65.7
URBAN                              ..        76.0     84.0                    79.7
RURAL                              ..         7.0     13.0                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       22.4      32.3                    59.9
URBAN                              ..         ..      60.0                    75.7
RURAL                              ..         ..      13.0                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2664.9     2891.8   1621.5                   1728.2                   973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2280.0      1620.9       ..                  1288.2                   896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           531.4      428.9    507.0                    471.2                   262.3
URBAN                              ..       305.3       ..                   558.0                   191.8
RURAL                              ..      4570.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       19.3        ..                      ..                    18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1/e       5.2      5.3
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.5/e       ..
URBAN                             2.17;        ..
RURAL                             2.87;        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            32.0/e       ..      41.2
URBAN                            78.5/e       ..      84.3
RURAL                             6.0/e       ..      11.6



- 25 -                                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                    Page  2  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5 S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMA&t) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE DC(tl
1960  _1b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADWSTYED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                83.0       100.0      108.0                   101.7                    105.9
MALE                 87.0       103.0     110.0                    103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               79.0        97.0     106.0                    101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        26.0      46.0                     35.3                     66.3
MALE                 13.0        28.0      48.0                     34.9                     73.2
FEMALE               10.0        24.0      43.0                     35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 29.0          11.0      11.0/d                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      36.0                     29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         11.0        14.0       16.0                    15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       67.5/e      68.0       76.6                    80.0    .                75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.5       7.4                     42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        38.5       282.6        ..                    215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5        24.9      45.0                     89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.6      46.3                     62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0        5.6                     3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1442.7      1936.2    2593.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.3        19.1      20.8                     22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        50.9      51.6                     35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2      17.6                     23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.7        32.2       32.1                    31.8                     42.3
MALE                                55.0        52.1       50.4                    49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                              10.6        12.3      13.5                     14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.5        1.5                     1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           .     269.0
RURAL                               ..          ,,     183.0 /d                 187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     307.0                    513.9
RURAL                               ''          ''      77.0                    362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritluetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c Intercensal growth rate is 3.2% (1962-74); /d 1975;. /e 1962.
/d Bank economic mission estimates for 1980 that absolute rural poverty
income  level  is  $315.                                                             May, 1981



-26-                                                                                     ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
OIPINITISNS OP OCIAL MICATORS
t-orso   Altboogh rho iota sos dra.  fro   sucs geasolly lodged  boh  mat suo.borlta- sad relible. ito shold also ho stod that thoy my tot he mot-
astismolly    rs..bls basse  of ohs1- losf ataodrdiaed delfcoti_e  ad  -oopt. gasi by d1ff.-oo ftotarc  is  olltiog  hoh  dote,  The dart or. om
chaises. asahI to describeA  orda.aof  sgeltoda. Ladi-tot  tr         -A .   bor..ctarlas  -taro    -aJor dif oaocaa hotsa  c-sola
Tma taas Sorops are (1) ohs a-  oatry groo  of cbs ashJot o-tur  sad (0) o oatoy grop with as-robt bighor  1 9 oveog  l                      ts- a  rho ..cutr  group
of the oubjet  -tasty (asopt for 'Capital Bsrpl_oe  il ioportsra  grop sare "Kiddlo l               X.s  oth Afrios sad Kitddla tsar  i  choo  botosoo of atrongt
asirtl Lr    t f igiia).  Os ohs osf-rs. group dtso cbs  -vaongd  -o  PaPolet-olsoihted arithocic  -ar  fos aoch toditator sod sh.. only sha
majority of theoqnrs  to  a-gop has doco for tot iodfctor..  Soos the carog  of .trutris  sass ohs odicator  d.opoda oI the  -rolablltty of dtc.
ood Is _oC osifo .  oocio  sac ha   -ierold to reltria  a.ar.gat ofrotditr to soohe.  Th-e  evrae   a -a only ufI to compariog the tales of
sea odiaor at s tha soo    bs  -toutry sadrros Sro-Pa..
iS    Re(tbsassd aq.o.lPorltionrrgaoo  e    oto.., -othe, sod roro  - Poptlatls (st.tI,
WT.I    Tt1otol'aefar  grs csmprli.ao  lea  srou sod jsolt  macor.                               srhoa  so  roro:l)d didad by tbior r-pootiva tobat of haspitol bade
*  far twpa. pecorac. ourot sod htoha. aedess or o be falow; 1970dare1t.     hahilIbcis.tr.Uortlaseoliehoatt  paoloastly  -offed
by so las   -n  phy.ioion.  Esoebliehoants porridiog pritoipolly .'It,-
UP PU CAPITA COlt - QP Par topics ostlate  OS tarrss  marbt poloa.. C.sl-                        dial   C tare so   sot laadd.  Isrol ha-pitsla.  owra.l  totllda health
Utolrd by a-  o .v.riso soohad as Ws-ld Booh itca  (1977-79 haste); 1960,                      tadadil caes         -o prsorly ataffad by a pbyatler. (hat by
1970. sad 1979 fats.                                                                           eaditl osalcot..  toro,  ldoifa. at.) which offar it-patbot -.cu-
dati1o sad pro..Ido a lImited r.-S. of madiosi f               Fclra .,fr  ttta-
MINT! CU9MTU1   P   CAPITA - Atral  -oerptioo of -oarcs  ousgy (tool                             lto.l purpose  ciba haspitola   elds. VW.o prtt-ip.1/gs-ro  bsspitsla.
so1wtac., parrlole.  ..    ..osoro  ga.  sod bydro  -. ocla  sod gS-thassl ols-              sod  ura  bsspitalg   . loo  or -.Ira  heplttls . sodadi-tel eod   -tariy
trct)i   ilogras of ..el  qlaatPar copita; 1960. 1970. sod 1979                          c.u.....  Speccliso1d boapitala or  isolldd alp orde  stool.
deco.                                                                                        Af iealoo  ou   oeis lad'    Total orae  at odmlacooe to or dcethorsos
fromI   hpiosla   ridd by the waooo  beds.
MTotal  Aqusln.  i-ort  uod)-A. of July 1; 1960. 1970,. sd 1979                             SOUSING
Orbasposulto  furiusf toal  - Iota of cobs  to tota  popusioto;                               A. bos 1ad!ocoise  fs  ropof .        P oliul  h  shore liing 400s 
dIfferent dWtlIam   o  obsar-  my offert tosobilltry of dais                                 ca  Osloi alt  -I.l. A hoarde  to 1dgar my cr   y sot he tocldd i
sang tsoucriaa;1960. 1970, end1979 data,                                            the hasenhld f. orsctiastral purpoa..
Proartion Poobetiom                                                                          60505f50   Isha  ofgroeos  pour co-   sttoL. Iro. sdrrl    vrg
Z      - Carrouc popolstie  projectiooe ss hboad -  190                                         IIo fpssn   crrat  I urbo. co _rrl otosld co.atiomol
crloocjnby  vS sad sea sad their wortlity sod f-rslltoy rae.dulliogs. roupoctrosly.  Dwalling  enolds ou-pssf t sorut-r  ead
ProJ-lsai  p.ot... for  rostlicy rolos  osrise of thin Irol  ass--                         usrcPled Parts
log lifa eopscaoo  so birth ieareae.s  withbonr'  psr -piso less-                        A.o.s. to Ilcricc   isoot of dwalllio   - tota,  roes .odttaI
lavsl, amd lOals  1     ouetas  aaILsis at 77.5 years.  ma. Par-                          Coowotiosl d-Iolisga with slatr.lt  ca1±1s   uasrsePOr-t5s5
stare  f so fertility  tsc  alma hays tbtelovaleas- min  doolcain                          of totsl, urbo..  cod  -Irs  dallag   os-porsi-sly.
isroility sossdisa so la-m  loral eod pat feily plamatg parfrmou..
lath .tetor  I0 tohseimd as ofchase  Its coflisectcos of sota.ity                       UAl
sod fertiliy toads for proJattiot p-tposs.                                               MinSted tro-1est  alosio
'tssoer  ooloctos - Is      cstonr  popul-tios ther  ce orgowo  sis"                         Polar, oh.oI -  2toc. ala sod is-la  - iro.s total. sels sod f-sol
shebirth oats IA squl to tthe deth rets. sod slaa the ego  trrtoso  r-                       arollsno   f alo ae  at se  inaylee  so paoa"tan  of I opootiv"
am    coaro.This I. athlevod only af ta  f-rtility  scsdotlis  so                            p.ooar  athool-sg  pop.1asio-; roooally InCldos childoes sged h.l1
the rolsatlss  of alt set rsprac-o   rts  hohs oah gs.-io                                    po-r  but adjetod for dftffarat   lb.t of priay sdt.ailoo; f-n
of a-     -cpi..e. Itself  -ustly.  TKs raiseary pepulstcnit e.                              ooW.ie  with toivoosledatc  oualetmy  noosod 100pstr
satoted ath  heaIts  f s~he prcjstcdohscaiir  of spopalotiom                               cots        pal  sr  bob- oI shor  tho officia  atheo   n..
Is the yeoo2100. sad she rrs of dsolios of fertility caato raplec-                        Osoir sho      otl   l od fs-lad - Csue                 bs ho;  otosedary
ast loyal.                                                           e~~~~~~~~~~dsotioo  -eqioeaasIerfour year  of. spprord Prtary  Lmoot ttom;
Thoro ctinr owaLoo  Is r-hsd - The yaro               n  otisr  poptatlom                      P-oidse g-1otol . vsoscnl  or t_ohao Itaintg loent-tom   for popik
also has boa r-ca.                                                                            eoly of 10 so 17 yasra of age; ...rr.epsmdAoeour    asgoosroll
Pe so. ho. - kld-you  ptpu1sticc par aquer  hIls-tor (100 hectoro) of                       VCoia   rola   "soooo  scoe, -t "'                 VocooomalIseito
toralaoou  1940  197  sod1979 data.                                                    j-odosd  toouho1itol.  so     l orohrprugrs  which opaats iedpood-
Pro so.ho. asctulturlolsd   -Copotad sa show  fo  orrute    load                        asoly oasdapCoromate of sooodory ioetitutiono.
oly; 1960O, 1970 sod 1979 dsts.                                                           Poi-sWa at-slr,sdstoow-Tolsuot   usldi
P.ulco  (emo-ausfaoot' - Childos  (0-16 yours). mri-ge(15-                                       poa,sdaoeylvl   iiddb   aoso   aoesi  th
hAyu.  Ad ostrs 6t       ys. o   ve)a  pootestoges ofdmid-Ian ppo-                        ceorsopsodofghot:oho
Isiu160. 190  sad 197  daeAdols liteteo sas   Ootur  - Litcrats adults (sbl  to rsed sod                                                                          C-0)
FPsoultion Orah Utot  (aro_s- otal - A_l growth Cst.e of coral old-_5   partarog  of total adult popolstio  agd 15 yVos s.dovr
year population- o 1950-60.  190-7. an  197-79.
PooulCio_ Irat  laos  =so to     - urbas-Al-ua  grooth rass  of cbobs PaPa-                CO0UUFtIO
lacitos for 1950-60. 1960-70. sod 1970-79.                                                 Ptsesasot Cats (ou  huod  wuoit)-Psoeo tois al  tm                   otat at
Cluds sloth lets irs  thauseo) - Aoou1 Ire births Par obtuesd of mjd-moo,tr  s-sin  lass tba sighs porsos; oucldas ..uleoso. heaoussa
population; 1960, 1970ad1979 daa.alitory vabicla.
Crud. Dsathbesfu  huad U-Aloal douche par thaoeods of ai-aoldle  sevr  jour thpoueed rorultion  - All typsa of  -ou....r fso radio
popolasion; 190   90.sd17  data.broaosts  co gosal-                                                                     l   a  thoueae  of popolotlo"; sntld M .
Goose. Opstoduotio  late - AaraS. osbe  of doaghters, a   s   will bar Is                      lI...oad Coslyos .  I. coutries end to yours whoraitaco f radio
he   trlrp-ductivs parlod if she spoieca  pr-r  ags-spotif if to-                      sets _s to  Iffato  dora for r-  oostyor my sot he tmp-rbla since
siliy trso;usslly  ivsysa  o-srtou Sdio  is 1960. 1970 ..St 197.ms  osoo   hlao   isit
Peeilv Pasalso -desto A.-doso  ithe..s-d.) -Agoool waho  of -sC ..poo                TV Receivers (ou  ctacand asnuticqo  -;TV  -oiveo  for broedost to
o.:fblotb-contool devce  Str  opis  of 1ssrolfml  pIlasso  piosgrss                           gesosol public par tbowesod pupaltion; ssldss altos-ed TVrosys
'sJyPaln     er ooercor=  of          Lorid wsE     - Pootags of married                   LInC owatIII   a.d Io years shem rsgjtrtiee of TY acts  as    Io'afect
ora  of cild-bar ing tg  (15-64 yours) m.eco  birth- tCon 1o dovirs  C.                    twaotCrstin   erhuCI-)solttm                         S-thw  the  -rssg  cis-
oll moted us   to st   Osa grou.                                                             clioof" ail -snaa  "t- -tosoco           rpapAr, dfoisasapaddi
publication devted primaily  t.--c        I reorin   ..re  mIn   0I IA rooidred
FOO  AND NetTlITI                                                                                tr ho "Llyf If it  P-..o st last fou  clas  A sok.
INdor of Food Poodacriun P.. Carucs (1969-71-160) - lodo  of Par ..Pio.  ..-Io               Cim-  dA-1o Attoodo-t ear Carit  pour Tour - Iseod -  the maho  of
pr-datta   of dl food  oooditios.  Prode-ios oulo   os sad sod feed Std                      tikheo  sold dsrtog the 7500  Including odma.issoo  co driv-to tin-s
Ie on caledar- yur hsl.  Cas-dicba coe  psiaso  goods (a.g. ougao                            oaf sbU. units..
I-=sa  of -S..r) which or. edible St oeeteio sstout  (s.g. coffee ted
tea o.aldded).  Agcogota psdoctioo of each c.-esy IA basd on-30SC
saiaal....sg, prsdcr prics sLights; 1941-65. 1970. sod 1979 doto                            oa  ao   ot  cceae      cmmclretr  parast. iscldie
Pot ..Pit. wetl  of MOltI_ (pour-u  of tuism            E-C."opod    rsaSfoesadPuns-boyed  o alcdiog haeti-se   dosdots. tot...
ous-gy eqo,lyslac   f setfoo  oup~pliasavilable in coutry par o-pits                       osverio  popolsoto  of .11 asoo.  fsfioltione to variou   oooe   0
pa  dy. A,ivibel  soppIaV  co_ rs  ds-.tic production . imports los                      opt cs-=rbtls; 1960..19170  tdf19.79 dta._
oors  St cbsoos.  It stok.  Sot supple  solds sola.l f Sd. seeds.                     Pl   I  ret)_-I-l             arfre _o.rrnaS. sof total labor fcrts.
q-unctitiss  .sod to stud pl:oeroso. Log,  losd    Ia diatr ibtios. Roqoir-              A    -icol,r  S.OtscC-Lao   ffcai        farin     .fratr,bating sod
acsmase tbcd by P60 bat  as   physiological seed  for soroll atti-                  fiablag -partrtgs. of cosal labor force; 1960. 1970 St1979 data.
o'iy sodLalth  -aids.'gemCroons  t."nscotr. bsdy maights, ega                           Isdseoyart       ti-Lao  fcrce to sioto. oon -trcion   ofatro
Stsedisti..ti. of popoletac  so  aloojog la p-rout fo  seoo                            od   etic isytt  moor sad dos o  p-raost.s of tcoos  lohar forts  1960,
ho-eha1d la-a; 1961-65. 1970, -An  1977 deco                                               1970 sod 1979 dtr..
for canto  uwl  fortt  lo              u  day) - ft.oColo ..costa  of Par caPita            arcitetiont-   lers (osotai- tctal  qs.. St fsol  -Paticiparioro
ca Iupl   f C.df par dy.  Na opyof fod L. dafimad se to.  Re-                        solity rasa  arc ospeda   ora.  as   n     oelbrfrsa
quitem tsc  for all  -cottisa estoblIabad by 010A proids for  oI-i                         partortogo  of total, soesoI   s-la  pop taio  ofal  n  rsatt's1y;
Ifocoss  60 Vos- of tota   -tcit Par day sad 20 gV-  f cola  sod                     1960 . 1970. Std 1979 data.  Th.- ars base d os cIke purtlipotoo rIoss
Pu.aI prs.    l of which ia  rs-o sh-Id ho solal protals.  Then stood-                    toflsoiae ASn-su   asrots tf the puototStlon  sla t     ttood.  A
solds  -r  l=    tbo sh..s of 75 gra  of total procein old 23 graso s                      for ssoltsts sr  from outioca . ...rc.s
sona  psti  aeO   vrg  for the sold  t.proposd by FAD in the Third                     tonoictotsro  hole - Retic of Popoletics Star 15 sod 65 Stowr
toldfoo  to--;191-5  1970 sod 1977 fst                                                     to  the tcts1 labor ftrts.
-.Psroi.  lorocal  sop,lo fro  so"ledS   u    - Pr.-l -L.opply rf tood ds-
nodtoo  slal  S   p"s" IA grs- pardy; 1961l-65. 1970 Std 19Md.dat.               INCOtM DISTROIDIOR
Child lasso 14)-   rtlioSc   ae   huo)           - decuA   deathe par th-ueed L.             Poetsao  Prrtols )bhit bsdic)-laiedyrcho
ags grop 1-4 years. to ohildtos ic thisoegou;frmatdvlopiog o---                              I parcst. riobsa  20prot   tRst h20  act  sopura   Alparrout
tolsa data dacivsd from lifa tsloI960. 1970 sod199dt.oboeods
stALLTS                                                                                      POVINT TUUGT GSOUPS
LUf a  =sraso  at Sloth (oCtos  - t-onot   osbht of peers of lifs  s-Iinto                   Ths folo-lag outiastas at. very epprola-  soreof po-ery bowl.,
At bic;1960, 1970 so   99 date.                                                              St  b-Id ha i.ttrp-otad wish coidarbls coctia.
105 st eoCs1it, lts (ou  chasoad) - Asesal doocho of isfeto  odor aso 7-e                    tlocted Abetlots Poetybo   le 1            09L-   our - teos  - orhu      -..urlI
of agsparobossd lIIo biocha.                                                                 Abosspvryirstoo   sta   es   ae  btlor whichamis
Accass to heft Ossar fourcous of ousoloticol- coral. ,tb "o Strrl   ht-        tuttitbunlly adequate dAs plun ouetlo1 so-trod  sqoirs-te  s  o
hot of psopis (tots1  orbs.Std rural  with rosecoblacos5 t uf                                tf_ordaba_
asac oupply (loclodastooted soofI ac-ters 00 unt-ard bt ceonom:losted                g,sfInatd RelativePvrolt-lyl11   u  sta      osS   oa
maco  sorhe  chtrompotcted ho=haloo, spriot. tad soitoy a.ls) ..                             traI -Itaciv  Poveot  let-  levo  is as-third of  -veg  par topics
pott_Socga  of Choir tspootir- popolstion.  In so -hos so-  a public                         pareanl Incas of rho toCuIItoy.  U,bas la-e  Is dorived fro  the rura
founcsi or sospcac bain) ot olra thas 200tacars from    hose  my ho                  leve  with odjosus  far bigbsr cost of lirlog Is ora-5*5
oIsdsro  as alo witbit eonbesco   fta a. It otal 5050f tstrited Fowroio  so  Oslr  Povry  oo    evlouca) - crho
osaobla ac -sIod iowly that the h-.-sIf. s. or aoar  of the heos-hold                    adrr l -Ptrnoo  popoletic  (orboo St totl   h.c arM              aal
dosotl hewsto ::,Id.a disproportootac  pars of tba day cc fotchiog tha
f    _iy'   ta sde.
A.cs.. co boosts Di.ousl (oucout Ifr lsis-total. urba,.dS rurl-
ahor- of P-PIo (ot ...  coSt,- and rural) acrod by acorta diopocel se
psorstoose of thoitro.pooti-s popoI.latio e.  Croc  diaptoul ay imelds
oho to0becci-os S   diopogal  with or without tAostanIt. of bra    -.tosr                                                        scso dot   Soriat lets Dvisia
St  et-macs  b7 macsr.-hat  sysos or the on of Pit Poiviss and ebib                                                     scunmic  sAolystsol  P, p .tsjrion  Sap_att
- tPopolocIo divided by otb.r of pr..toIoi.S physi-
riesequal,ifd loo  a Stical tbhool at  riososity 1qva1.
*,,Lt,&ou aran  Perun-   P-ruletio  divided by ols.ofa pr...tictog
isso  Is-b   grdoets .sore..e, pito-col scsood St ase .ters 



- 27 -
AMINE I
CPCAnMR -  Eac IC TY  CAtOtS                                        PPge 4 of 5
Populatie:          8.068 -(aid-1979, thouaanda)
cNr Par Capita: VS$1,050 -(1979)
Amont                 Average Annual Increase (1)           Share of COP at Market Prico (2)
(milie  US$              (at constant 1973 price.)                  (at currert prices)
Iadleater                                 at eurreCt prices)                       _                          - ____
1979 (a)              1960-70   1970-75   197540            1960     1970     1°75 (b) 19R0 (b)
NATIONIAL ACCOUNTS
Cro  domtie stidc    t                           "24                        5.1      11.1       7.0          100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0
Agrle lt rsl1456                                                         4.0       5.4        1.8           33.3     27.6      17.9     14.1
In try i  d  luaus                             3476                      7.3      20.7        7.7           19.3     23.0      33.9     35.0
Servw                                        * 4577                      '.3       8.0       8.1            47.4     49.4      43.4     46.7
7210                      5.0       9.8       7.5             4.4 NA   2.      n0.3    3o0.0
Creas  1aweetaeut                                2901     .               1F.7       12.2       7.38          14.0     22.5      26.7     27.4
rxport of goods nd Nm                            2339                      2.7       15.8       2.9           17.2    14.0       26.2     20.1
Imports of goods and VIS                         2534                     10.9      12.6        5.7           15.7     10.4      32.7     27.5
Creoe  astioal saviag                            2310                       -          -                      12.9      16.2     13.8     16.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(tcrren  pices         -
1975       1976       1977       1976        1979
N3sr.ISK morTS                                              100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0      100.0
prima                                                      86.9       85.5       77.5       69.4        71.5
Crede Petroleum                                                     51 r67     50.2       36.5        U.1
Other                                                    24.5       28.9       27.3       32.9        23.4
Manufactures                                               13.1       14.6       22.5        30.6       28.5
?etroleu DerivatveS                                      -           -          1.3        6.0         6.8
Proceseed Cocoa                                          2.8         2.5       14.3       13.6       10.9
Fish and Seafood                                          3.6        4.1        5.6        5.9         5.6
Otbers                                                   6.7         7.8        1.3        5.1         5.2
MIRCHAtnDISE 1ItlT5                                         l00.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Costnur Goods                                           13.1        11.2       11.1       11.0       10.7
Interedlate Goods                                       43.8       43.7        40.6       38.1       41.6
Capital Goods                                           42.6       42.8        48.0       50.7       47.6
Other                                                    0.5         2.3        0.3        0.2        0.1
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRAM                                         1975      1976      1977       1978      1979
CDP deflator                                                   71.7      80.7      92.2      100.0     123.1
Exebxan  rate                                                  25.0      25.0      25.0      25.0       25.0
Export price index                                             76.7      86.9    102.6       100.0     140.8
Iuport price tndex                                             81.8      84.6      89.5      100.0     118.4
Terms of trade index                                           93.8    102.7    114.6        100.0     118.9
As I GDP
(at current price.)
1075     1979
PIRLIC FINANICK (c)
Current revene                                                                      11.4     12.0
Current expediture                                                                  6.6       9.9
%urpl.s (+) or deflclt (-)                                                          4.8       2.1
Capital expenditure                                                                 2.5       4.8
Foreign financing                                                                    -        1.7
1960-70   1470-75   1975-30   1930-35
OTHER IIDICATORS
CnP grewtb rate (2)                                    s.3      11.1       7.0       5.0
crP per capita trowth rate (2)                         2.4       7.5       3.6       1.5
Fnergy eesunptlon growth rate (2)                       -         -       11.7       6.5
ICON                                                   0.7       7.7       4.0       *.1
marginal savisge rate                                 -0.4      _n.4       O.         -
Import elasticity                                      1.*       1.3       0.V       0.0
(a) Updated 1979 and 1980 fitures were received recently and will appear in future President's Reports.
(b) For 1975 and 190. components are expreased at fnctor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
(c) Cetrnl Covernmnnt only.
I,                                                                                                                              June 24, 1991



- 28 -
MEEK 1
ECUADOR  -  ALAIJICE OF PAYMElTNYM  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND IJ7T                         Pago 5 of 5
(million US$ at current prices)
Population        8,068 - (mid-1979, thousands)
CNP Per Capita   tS$1S050- (1979)
Actual                                        Projeetei
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979             1w (a) 19= 1992    1993    1996
BALANCE OF PFATIHTs
Pet exports of goods 4 servie*s                                -130    -252      -4    -379    -747    -h25          -616    -761   -1135    -1448   -1382
F.xports of goods & servica.                                  254    1127    1415    1629    1741    2410          2937    3090    3246        3416    *275
Importa of Soods A services                                   360    1379    1464    200h    24A3    3035          3553    3851    4381       48"      5657
Net transfers                                                    17       32      31       36       64       60        60       45       50        56      63
Current account balanee                                        -113    -220       -3    -341    -69S    -5RS         -576    -716   -1085    -1392   -1319
Direct private investment                                        no       95     -20       34       40       50        80      il      131       167     165
ILT loans (nat)                                                  26      133     161      506      425      595       709      591    1037       130     1290
Offticial                                                       A      51       72       53       77       67        85      194     256       297      295
Private                                                        17      82       89      453      36      5298       624      397     781      1012      "5
other capttal              -9                                            -93      62      -42      267      -25        35       40       50        56      63
Change in reserves   -   inCr       )                           -10       p5    -200    -157       -34      -35      -248      -33    -133      -120    -199
International reerve                                            A1      257      457      613      647     682        929      962    1095      1215    1414
Reerves   months of 1 ports                                       3       2        4        4        3        3         3        3        3         3       3
Actual
1970    1975    1976    1077    1979    1979
CRnSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                                 42     166      217      57A      533    1142
Concesstonal                                                   12      40       45       31       21       14
Bilateral                                                      q       15       25       12        9        7
IDA                                                             2       7        3        5        1       0
Other multilateral                                              I      I       17       14       11      12
Non-concessional                                                 30     125      173      567      512    1122
Official export credits                                         2       9       19       25       49.     12
IBRD                                                           2       10        4        A       22      31
Other sultilateral       *                                      0       4       I1       10        8      29
Private                                                       26      102      132      505      433    1051
EXTERNAL DEBT
nebt outstanding and disbursed                                  213     657      619    1139    1597    2207
Official                                                     152      259      332      394    465       567
IBPD                                                        34       63      42       6        60       A5
IDA                                                          6       29      31       36       36       36
Other                                                      112      1M9     25'      314      3AA      445
Private                                                       61      1o9      2A7     746    1102    1640
llndishursed Debt                                               139     322      640      646      710     903
WFNT SERVICII
Total debt service payments                                      24      .50      A2      117      206      713
Interest                                                       7       17       25      45       9A      161
Payments as 7 exports                                           *.1      6.t     5.7      7.2    1I.A    29.6
Average interest rate on nev loans (2)                         6.2      7.4      7.9      7.9      9.2    11.0
Official                                                     4.2      6.6      7.7     7.0       3.0     A.6
Private                                                      7.6      P.2      A.0      .1     9.3    11.4
Average maturity of new loans (years)                          1'.7    IO.A    11.2    10.1    11.6    10.4
Offtieal                                                    36.1    1.9    1'.3   1I.7    29.5    15.1
Private                                                      9.9      6.2      7.3     7.7       7.2     9.6
BANK cRnIuP EXPOSURE (2)
IBRO DDnttotal MoY                                            13.0      9.6      6.9      1.9      3.A      3.9
TIRn  disbursements/total gross disbursents                    4.9       *.'     1.'      1.3      4.2     2.7
InRD drht servlrc/total debt service                          17.9    12.6    10.1        8.2      4.8     1.8
IDA MDn/total DOn                                              2.7      6.2      5.0      3.1      2.3      1.7
InA diabursemento/tntal grnss dlshursements                     5.1     4.1      1.?     0.A      0.2      0.0
IDA deht service/total debt service                            0.0      0.6      0.4     0.3      0.2 -   0.0
(a)  Et    l .llt.                                                                                                           tiny  6b. i981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of April 30, 1981) I/
-------US$ million-------
Loan or                                                        (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                             Amount
Number   Year         Borrower          Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
11 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                     89.3       37.6         -
1030     1974         Guayaquil
Water Co.       Water Supply       23.2          -        1.3
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education            4.0          -        3.8
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds                3.0          -        1.8
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical            4.0          -        3.6
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways            10.5          -        1.5
1255     1976         Guayaquil
Port Authority Ports               33.5          -        2.5
1359     1977         Ecuador          DFC                 26.0          -        3.0
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways            17.5          -        9.4
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5          -       11.3
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical           11.0          -       10.6
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0            -       17.8
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0          -      31.0
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0          -       30.7
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0          -       20.0
1882     1980         Ecuador          Highways            55.0          -      55.0
Total                                        401.5       37.6      203.3
of which has been repaid                    76.5        0.8
Total now outstanding                        325.0       36.8
Amount sold                          4.1
of which has been repaid           2.9       1.2          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               323.8       36.8
Total undisbursed                            203.3         -       203.3
1/   A US$20 million loan for the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project
was approved May 12, 1981 by the Executive Directors.



_ 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS (as of April 30, 1981)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                        Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                       DFC            -       0.4       0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0            -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978           Cemento Nacional (CEM)              Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
1980          Adamas Andina S.A.                   Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0       4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.        Mining       1.0        .3       1.3
Total gross commitments                         25.0       2.9      27.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         4.7       0.4      5.1
Total commitments now held by IFC               20.3       2.5      22.8
Total undisbursed                                4.3       1.4       5.7



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about five years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 95 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. More specifically,
the Guayaquil Water Company requires about US$27 million through 1982 from the
Government or from increased water tariffs to complete the project. In March
1980, the new Government provided a US$17 million loan to the Water Company
and the public development bank has programmed a second loan for 1981. A recent
tariff reform is expected to provide the Water Company some of the revenues
needed to finish the project. The Bank is now considering a Government
request to extend the Closing Date by ten months.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Bidding for equipment purchase and construction of the training centers is
now underway and the centers are expected to be completed by the end of this
calendar year. The present Government has shown strong support for this
project, naming a dynamic director and providing needed additional funds.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it
appears probable that the project can be completed by the amended closing
date, June 30, 1982. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department
of Seed Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas)
are staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not
yet operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of
the loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for all
of the major facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim
financial support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support hydrological studies for
the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility
studies can be done for agricultural development in the region. These studies
would absorb over half of the loan resources. To help to accelerate this
long-delayed project, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement at the Government's
request to provide for reimbursement of local consultants services. The
Closing Date was extended to permit completion of the Guayas Basin studies.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind schedule.  The technical assistance programs are already having
positive effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance.
The project's Closing Date has been extended to permit completion of civil
works. The feasibility studies for the recently approved Puerto Ila-Chone
rural development project were financed under this loan.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Civil works proceeded rapidly on this project following initial
delays related to design and price disputes. By April 1981, works were
essentially completed and 93 percent of the loan was disbursed. Remaining
minor works, such as paving, and tests of structures are in final stages.
The entire project is expected to be completed by mid-1981.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This project is fully committed and 90 percent disbursed. Final
disbursements are expected to coincide with the Closing Date.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about
60 percent of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes
on this road have, however, generated an increase in costs. Construction of



-33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and the lateral feeder
roads to this road have not yet begun; they are now about two years behind
schedule. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has, on the other hand, been completed satisfactorily, and served as the basis
for the Sixth Highway Project.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. Eleven banks and financieras are participating in lending operations.
Eighty percent of the lending program has been committed for on-farm develop-
ment, but disbursements have moved more slowly because the investment plans
extend over three years generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not
always been allocated on time.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a slow pace and more than three
years after effectiveness, only about US$400,000 has been disbursed. Contracts
have been signed for seven of ten selected studies and work is progressing on
drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and contracting for
most of the others. The project list has undergone revision and a final list
has been prepared. Four of the five experts to be hired under the project are
on board. The new management of FONAPRE, the executing agency,is seeking to
accelerate project execution.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is progressing satisfac-
torily after about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between
the Central Bank and participating agencies. A project unit has been estab-
lished, experts have been recruited, and infrastructure planning begun. The
project unit has been working with farmers and community groups for the past
year.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. It was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date.



_ 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1985.
This project is the Bank's first integrated urban development
project in Ecuador. Project Units in the National Housing Bank and Munici-
pality are established and proceeding with the first steps of project execution.
Subsidiary agreements have been signed between the Central Bank and participat-
ing agencies.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan
of October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1984.
This project recently became effective. CFN, the executing agency,
began accepting applications for subloan rediscounts in March 1981.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highways Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project recently became effective. The Feeder Roads project Unit
was established in January 1981 and agreements with the three participating
provinces have been signed.
Loan 1991-EC   Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project;  US$20 million Loan
of                       ; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1981
and is expected to be signed shortly.



_ 35 _
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare project:                Two years.
(b)  Project prepared by:               MAG and Planning Board with
assistance from OAS and FAO-IBRD
Cooperative Program.
(c) First presentation to the
Bank and first Bank mission
to consider project:               September 1978.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 10, 1980.
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:        June 19, 1981.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:   November 1981.
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None.
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
(a) IERAC to carry out land ownership legalization program whose aim
is to provide new titles to farmers in the project area and to
legalize land transactions, assisting 2,050 farmers (para 57).
(b) Prior to initiating construction of the service centers and the
water supply systems, the Government would ensure that committees
had been organized in the communities to be benefited to administer,
operate and maintain these facilities. These communities would
also contribute at least 20 percent--in labor, cash or kind--to
the cost of the water systems (paras 61 and 68).



- 36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) SEDRI to adequately staff its project unit by March 1, 1982. The
unit's functions, responsibility and staffing would be satisfactory
to the Bank (para 64). SEDRI would enter into implementation agree-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, with each participating agency
spelling out responsibilities and administrative arrangements.
Signature of these agreements would be a condition of disbursement
for each respective component (para 65).
(d) MAG and INIAP to staff a special extension service, satisfactory
to the Bank, in the project unit and to adequately staff it by March
31, 1982 (para 66).
(e) MOP and CPE to enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
spelling out their respective responsibilities under the road
maintenance component (para 69).
(f) BNF to sign a subsidiary agreement satisfactory to the Bank with
the Government as a special condition of effectiveness and prepare
guidelines for processing credit applications as a condition of
disbursement (para 71). Subloans would cover up to 90 percent of
investment costs for small farmers at no less than 12 percent
interest and up to 80 percent of investment costs for other sub-
borrowers at no less than 15 percent interest (paras 72-73). BNF
would earmark 50 percent of medium and long-term credit for small
farmers (para 72). Finally, the Government and BNF would review
interest rates annually in consultation with the Bank and, if
necessary, revise them in line with inflation (para 73).
(g) As a special condition of effectiveness, the Government to estab-
lish a special project account and deposit therein the equivalent of
US$500,000 to be used as a revolving fund (para 74).



_____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ____________ _I I                                      RRD 11 6 19
79' 30'                                                                                                                                      198 ,APRL lC8
! "  , i+4,, ,, t_    \\ EsMRAoiSl,,
- .      ;a:    .0  rJECT AREA L  
ECUADOR                                                                   =",o                                               00,0
ESMERALDAS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                             + E    -                                       Co7/3O
Quininde' - Molimpia - Nueva  Jerusale'm                                                                                  rn 
.~~~~~~~~~~ -i. ....                                    vECoeCG-.AocQ
-V~~~~~~~B
Z  )8   // _           s  «olimpio                    <         i4  t                         \
I 0
r   ~ ~ ~~ ®           chote
Morque,o
\   2   4<tfLo  ,a]                           go El  Sad S                                                                   Poled   Roads
v       \         _(                 ~       ~      ~     ~      ~           Y                                    +      HQSOjtQI Improvements~~OESI    I 
N a4li,,lih Subceo2                          3rs
Gro7Anl                          M ES  I                                                      Golond0ms
79' 30' ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ e
raPOET  OPNN



