Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13678-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit - Uruguayan Peso (UrS)
US$1 = Ur$5.6 (November 1, 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ALOS          Average Length of Stay
ASSE          Administracidn de Servicios de Salud del Estado
(Administration for State Health Services)
BIRF          Banco Internacional de Reconsxucci6n y Pomento
(Internoal Bank for Reconstuction and Dcvelopment)
BPS           Banco de Previsi6n Social
(Social Insurance Fund)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEA           Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
CY            Calendar Year
DALY          Disability-Adjusted Life Years
DISSE         Direcci6n de los Seguros Sociales por Enfermedad
(Sickness Insurance Fund of the Social Security System)
FISS          Unidad Coordijiadora del Proyecto de Fortalecimiento
Institucional del Sector Salud
(Project Implementation Unit for the Institutional
Strengthening of the Health Sector)
FNR           Fondo Nacional dc Recursos
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GNP           Gross National Product
LAMC          Institutos de Asistencia Medica Colectiva
(Non-Profit Private Medical Cooperatives)
ICB           Internacional Competitive Bidding
IMAE          Institutos de Medicina Altamcntc Especializada
(Specialized medical Institutes)
IMF           Intemational Monetary Fund
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
IVA           Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(Value-Added Tax)
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MEF           Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
(Ministry of Finance)
MIS           (Management Information System)
MSP           Miristerio de Salud Publica
(Ministry of Public Health)
OCDE          Organizaci6n de Cooperacidn y Desarrollo Econdmicos
(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)
PPP           Advance from the Project Preparation Facility
QALY          Cost per quality-adjusted life year
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
SP            Seguros Parciales
(Partial Private Insurance Schemes)
SSFFAA        Servicios de Sanidad de las Fuerzas Arnadas
(Military Health System)
SSPP          Direcci6n Nacional de Sanidad Policial
(PoLice health system)
STD           Sexually Transmitted Discase



URUGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOAPENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND   .....................................    1
A. Recent Economic Trends and Future Prospects  ..............    1
B. Poverty and Social Expenditures  .......................   2
2. THE HEALTH SECTOR ................................. 2
A. Health Status ...................................   2
B. The Structure of the Health Sector ......................   3
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT POLICY ................                                         6
A. Issues  .....................................                                        6
B. Government Sectoral Policy  ..........................  11
4. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR   .................  11
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy .........................  11
B. The Bank's Experience and Lessons Learned ................  12
5.THEPROJECT .13
A. Project Objectives and Concept ..........                  ..............  13
B. Detailed Project Description  .         .........................  14
6. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN   ...... ..                              ...........  20
A. ProjectCosts ....                                                                  20
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability ...........             ............  20
C. Financing Plan  .        .................................  21
7. FROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ........... ..                            ...............  22
A. Status of Preparation  ..........                ....................  22
B. Project Management and Coordination   ...................  22
C. Implementation Schedule .........                  ...................  23
D. Procurement  . ..................................  24
E. Disbursements and Accounts  .........................  27
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits  ..............  28
Tais report is based on the findings of prepartion missions which visited Uruguay in October 1992, July
1993, and January 1994, led by Mr. Xavier Coil (lAlHR) and consisting of Messrs/Mmes: Sandra Rosenhousw
(LAiPkR), Mario Rothschild (LAIEU), Fernando Vio (Consultkat), H6ctor Sanchez (Consu lnt), Elvia Guilra
(Consulant), and James Cercone (Consulant). Cross-support from PHN (Meurs. JosE Luis Bobadilla, Peter
Cowle, and Rafael Lozano) wu received for the prepartion of the project's disea  priority activities. An
Mp" mission took place at te Bank's headquarters in Wuhington, D.C. in September 1994, led by Mr.
Xavkr Coll and consisting of Messrs/Mmes: Reynaldo Pastor (LEGLA), Joseph Formoso (LOAEL), Cecili
Baihi n (LOAEL), Carlos Trabucco (LATPS), Hoveida Nobakht (PMDTR), Hideci Mod (LA3HR), Brenda
Enuter (LA1HR), and Patty Villag6mez (LAIHR). Peer reviewer are Messrs/Mmes: Helen Saxenian (PHN),
Alemsnder Prcker (EC2HR), and Maureen Lewis (LA2HR). Messrs. Alain Colliou and Gobind T. Nankani ar,
respewdely, the Division Chief and the Dcpartment Director for this opertion.



- ii -
G.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision  .                        .............         28
H.  Environmental Impact   .............................   29
8.  EXPECrED  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ........................  29
A.  Benefits  ......................................  29
B. Risks . ........................................ 30
9. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ........                                                 ........... 30
A.  Agreements  ....................................  30
B.  Recommendation  .................................  31
ANNEX A:
Figure 1:  Demographic Projections by Age Group .................... 32
Figure 2:  Health Sector Revenues (1992)   ......................... 36
Figure 3:  Health Sector Expenditures (1992)  ....................... 38
Table  1:  Infant Mortality Rate, Compared with Selected Countries   ...                             ...... 33
Table  2:  Proportional Causes of Death by Sex in Uruguay, 1989-1991  ...                              .... 33
Table  3:  Distribution of Health Sector Coverage by Sector
and Provider/Insurer (1992) .................... 34
Table 4: Institutional Structure of IAMCs ........................ 35
Table  5:  Distribution of Health Sector Spending (1992)  ................ 37
ANNEX B:
Expected Outcomes  ....................................... 39
ANNEX C:
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis .................................. 40
ANNEX D:
Table 1:  Detailed Project Cost Summary    ......................... 43
Table 2:  Financing Plan by Year   ..............................44
ANNEX E:
Presidential Decree   ....................................... 45
Organizational Structure, Project Implementation Unit (FISS)   ............. 47
ANNEX F:
Implementation Plan ...................................... 48
Implementation Program (Key Actions) ........................... 50
Implementation Schedule .................................... 51
ANNEX G:
Table 1:  Disbursement Forecast  ............................... 52
Table 2:  Disbursement Allocations  ............................. 53
ANNEX H:
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ................. 54



URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Uruguay
Implementing
Agency:             Ministry of Public Health (MSP)
Poverty:            Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:             US$15.6 million equivalent (including up to US$1.2
million equivalent of retroactive financing).
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:    0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:      See Para. 6.4
Net Present Value:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 13678-UR
Map:                 IBRD No. 26117



- iv -
BASIC DATA SHEET 1
Year
A.    General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                 $3,910.0             1993
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)       177.0             1993
Population Estimate (Millions)            3.1             1992
Density (Habitants/Km.2)                 16.7             1985
Urban Population (% of Total)            85.5             1990
Population Projection
for Year 2000 (MilLions)                  3.1            1992
B.    Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)             10.0             1992
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)      0.5             1992-2000
Total Fertility Rate (birth per woman)    2.3             1992
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)             17.0             1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)        20.0             1992
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)         72.0             1992
Prevalence of Malnutrition (under 5)      7.4             1987-1992
Adults Illiteracy Rate (% of per. over 15)  4.0           1992
DEFTIONS
Crude Death Rate          Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year.
Rate of Population Growth  Rate at which a population is increasing (or decreasing)
in a given year due to a surplus (or deficit) of births
over deaths, expressed as a percentage of the total
population.
Total Fertility Rate      Average number of children who would be born alive to
a woman during her lifetime if she were to pass through
her child-bearing years conforming to the age-specific
fertility rates of a given year.
Crude Birth Rate          Number of births per 1,000 population in a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate     Number of deaths of infants under one year of age in a
given year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth    Average number of years an infant would live if the
current age/sex specific mortality trend prevailing at the
time of birth were to continue.
1. Source: World Development Report, 1994



URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. Recent Economic Trends and Future Prospects
1.1   Uruguay is a relatively small country in both area (177,000 square kilometers)
and population (3.1 million). Per capita income (US$3,910 in 1993) is among the
highest in Latin America, and income distribution compares favorably with that of
many developed countries. Early after its independence, Uruguay became
distinguished for its prosperity, based mainly on livestock exports, and for its political
stability. At the turn of the century, Uruguay was a pioneer in the provision of
broad-based social benefits, such as universal access to education, health, and
retirement benefits. However, the country's good economic performance started to
deteriorate after the 1930s, despite some temporary improvement during World War
II, as the agriculture sector was increasingly taxed to support the development of a
relatively inefficient new manufacturing sector. By 1950, livestock remained by far
the most important export activity.
1.2   When President Lacalle took office in March 1990, he concentrated on
restoring short-term stability, furthering financial sector reforms and trade
liberalization (including Uruguay's entry into MERCOSUR), and modernizing and
reducing the size of the state. Accomplishments toward the latter have been modest,
but prudent fiscal management coupled with a highly favorable external environment,
led by the economic recovery in Argentina and the decline in world interest rates,
helped to improve most macroeconomic variables.
1.3   Annual GDP growth, which has averaged less than 1 percent between 1988
and 1990, increased to 2.9 percent in 1991, 7.4 percent in 1992, and is expected to
have slowed to 1.5 percent during 1994. Mirroring developments in Argentina, the
high growth in 1992 was fueled by strong capital inflows that helped finance a
sigmficant growth in consumption and imports. As in previous periods of high
growfth, tourism and other service activities proved to be the most dynamic sectors.
Inflation declined from 130 percent in 1990 to 59 percent in 1992, and despite a
deteriorating trade account, the balance of payments has remained strong. Following
a Brady-Plan debt and debt-service reduction exercise in 1991, undertaken with World
Banm support, the ratio of external public debt to GDP declined from about 50 percent
in 1987-90 to roughly 30 percent in 1992. Uruguay's creditworthiness has improved
to the point that it has ready access to international capital markets.
1.4 While the economy's performance has been satisfactory, there are concerns
abeut its sustainability. In the areas of public sector reform and public enterprise
resbucturing, the Government has suffered some serious setbacks. In May 1992, a
reform proposal that would have resulted in a fully financed social security system in
the medium term was rejected by Congress, although agreement was later reached on
a less ambitious program. Comprehensive efforts to downsize the public sector work
force have also been unsuccessful, although many public enterprises, some



municipalities, and the central government have taken steps in that direction. In the
area of public enterprise restructuring, some initial success was attained through
Congressional approval of a Privatization Law and the privatization of services at
Montevideo's port. However, the drive for privatization suffered an important
setback when the articles of the law that allowed privatization of the telephone
company were overturned in a referendum in December 1992.
B. Poverty and Social Expenditures
1.5   Given the relatively high income per capita and equitable income distribution,
the incidence of poverty in Uruguay is slight. In 1989, less than 10 percent of the
households in Montevideo (where half of the total population resides) feU below the
poverty line. In other areas, the proportion was slightly higher at 11 percent.'
Although these estimates have not been updated, all indicators point to a steady-state
situation. Between 1989 and June 1993, private sector real wages grew at an annual
average rate of about 1 percent, although public sector real wages declined by about a
half percent per year. Unemployment has remained stable at about 8.5 percent. For
the poorest households, income transfers associated with public expenditures in social
areas are equivalent to 50 percent of their total gross income. Between 1989 and
1992, real social expenditures grew at an average annual rate of 8 percent and the
ratio of social expenditures to GDP increased from 18.2 percent in 1989 to 20.7
percent in 1992. Continuing to provide services to the poor amidst fiscal pressures
remains an important challenge. Given the difficulties in increasing expenditures,
efforts will need to focus on more efficient targeting of services.
2. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Health Status
2.1   The Uruguayan population has long exhibited some of the most favorable
health indices in Latin America. The welfare state tradition on the public side, and
the presence of a strong, socially oriented private sector with roots in the mutual-aid
societies of the 1850s, have produced a health care system that has achieved almost
universal coverage and high equity relative to other countries. Over 90 percent of the
population has access to comprehensive health care from a variety of public and
private providers.
2.2   Demographic Dynamics. A prolonged period of declining ferdlity and
increased life expectancy have resulted in an aging population structure, producing
fundamental changes in the volume and composition of demand. Between 1950 and
1990, the proportion of the population under five years of age decreased from 9.8 to
1 Uruguay Poverty Assesment: Public Social Expenditures and their Impact on the Income
Distribution. World Bank Report No 9663-UR, May 4, 1993.



- 3 -
8.4 percent and the share of population over 65 increased from 8.2 to 11.6 percent.
Comparable figures in the Region in 1990 are exactly the reverse. The aging of the
population has had a profound effect on the pattem and level of demand for health
services.
2.3   The Epidemiological Transition. The disease patterns reflect a post-
transitional epidemiological profile. In 1991, the main causes of death were
cardiovascular disease (39 percent of total deaths), tumors (24 percent), and other
chronic and degenerative diseases (six percent). The infant mortality rate (23 per
thousand in 1990) is the second lowest in Latin America after Chile. Annex A
includes the most significant demographic (Figure 1) and health indicators (Tables 1
and 2). In conjunction with the aging pattern, the epidemiological profile implies
more frequent and costlier contacts with health providers.
B. The Structure of the Health Sector
2.4   The structure of the health care finance and delivery system is exceedingly
complex, consisting of a variety of govemment, parastatal and private providers,
insurers, and financiers linked to one another through a myriad of financial and
functional arrangements of varying degrees of formality. The four main agents
include: (a) the public sector; (b) the social security health insurance system
(Direcci6n de los Seguros Sociales por Enfermedad--DISSE); (c) the regulated not-
for-profit private sector (Instituos de Asistencia Medica Colectiva--IAMCs); and
(d) the private for-profit sector. Annex A, Table 3 provides the distribution of
coverage among the different providers.
The Delivery System
2.5   The public sector covers about 40 percent of the population. It comprises the
Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio de Salud Publica--MSP), the University
(Universidad de la Repiblica) which is responsible for the National Teaching Hospital
(Hospital de CZ(nicas), and the Military and Police Health systems (Servicios de
Sanidad de las Fuerzas Anmada--SSFFAA-- and Direcci6n Nacional de Sanidad
Policial--SSPP, respectively). The MSP provides services to the uninsured
(constituting about 28 percent of the population, mostly the poorest segments) through
a network of 60 hospitals and 200 health centers. The National Teaching Hospital
provides services to MSP beneficiaries, generally for patients with acute clinical and
surgical symptomatology. The SSFFAA and the SSPP provide family coverage to
active and retired members of the military and the police and their families
(representing about 11 percent of the total population).
2.6   The majority of services in the private sector are provided in the non-profit
private sector through a network of 53 private medical cooperatives (IAMCs). These
institutions use a variety of organizational systems--ranging from cooperative
management by enrolled members to a union dominated management structure-to



- 4 -
cover over 50 percent of the population (see Annex A, Table 4). The IAMCs are
financed through: (a) resource transfers by the social security system in which
workers and employers contribute 8 percent of payroll to health insurance
(representing about 30 percent of IAMC coverage); (b) individual payments (out-of-
pocket) or collective affiliations in which businesses negotiate monthly rates directly
with the IAMCs (representing about 70 percent of IAMC coverage); and
(c) copayments which are charged for all services except hospitalization. Regulation
of the LAMCs is provided by the MSP for issues of quality control, and by the
Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Economfa y FTnanzas-MEF) for issues related to
cost control.
2.7   Premiums for individual payments are fixed yearly by the MEF.2 All
individual contributions are roughly identical (within a range of 5 percent) and do not
vary according to age, sex, or risk (small discounts, however, are applied to famiy
memberships). Premiums charged by the IAMCs to the social security system are set
by law at 85 percent of the individual premiums.3 While in theory, IAMCs cannot
refuse enrollment on the basis of pre-existing conditions, following a 1986 Decree,
IAMCs can set an age limit on enrollment at 50 years. There are no restrictions on
movement between IAMCs (17 percent of IAMC beneficiaries move to a different
IAMC every year) and, overall, the distribution of risk among IAMCs appears to be
fairly even.
2.8   The coverage of the private for-profit sector is difficult to establish. It
generally offers partial insurance packages that supplement the standard packages
offered through the IAMCs. While relatively small, partial insurance schemes have
been growing substantially over the past five years.
2.9  EHigh-Technology Medical Services. In 1979, the MSP implemented an
innovative arrangement for the financing and delivery of high-technology services.
An insurance fund was created to finance services such as hemodialysis,
cardiovascular surgery, and pacemakers. Services are delivered in specidalized
medical centers (Institutos de Medicina Altamente Especializada-IMAE) that can be
located in either public or private facilities and are available on a demand basis. For
IAMC beneficiaries, resources are generated through an additional premium added to
the monthly contribution. The government pays the costs of treatment for public
employees and the poor. A parastatal agency, the National Resource Fund (Fondo
Nacional de Recursos-FNR) administers IMAE resources. Its responsibilities include
authorizing the opening of an IMAE center, establishing reimbursement rates, and
defining covered treatments. Although the fund was established to contain the rapid
2 A maximum percentage increase in premiinms is decided yearly by the Government, based on
macroeconomic consideraions and not linked to criteria such s productivity and quality. For a brief
period in 1992, price controls on premiums were lifted. The effect was an unprecedented rise in individual
contributions.
3 Since the premium chrged by IAMCs to the social security system is a fixed percetage of individual
premiums, any increases in individual premiums have an automatic impact on social security obligations.



growth of costly high technology services, the number of high technology procedures
has substantialy increased over the past 10 years.
Fnancing of Services
2.10  Health sector financing can be classified according to its four principal
sources: (a) public sector financing (budgetary allocation through general revenues);
(b) social security funds (payroll taxes allocated through DISSE); (c) private insurance
(monthly premiums); and (d) direct individual contributions. Annex A, Figure 2
iUustrates the relative importance of each financing source.
2.11  Public Sector Flnancing. Public sector financing accounts for approximately
28 percent of total health care spending. The MSP and the National Teachiag
Hospital (Hospital de Cl(nicas) account for the largest share at 18 percent of total
spending (representing 10 percent of the overaU government budget and 2.7 percent
of GDP). These resources are generated by a 22 percent value-added tax (IVA),
general tax revenue, municipal taxes, sales taxes, the sale of medical services,
external assistance, and contributions by public entities (institutions or municipalities)
to cover the provision of health services for their employees by the LAMCs.
2.12 Social Security Financing. The sickness insurance fund of the social security
system (DISSE) finances the provision of health services by the IAMCs for about
565,000 workers 4. These include private sector employees, a portion of the self-
empkoyed and informal sectors, a segment of civil servants (e.g., Ministry of Public
Works employees) and pensioners 5. In total, the payroll taxes generated from these
sources account for 15 percent of health sector revenues. In 1990, revenue channeled
through DISSE represented approximately US$2.8 million (or about 7.5 percent of all
social security resources managed by the social insurance fund, Banco de Prvisi6n
Social--BPS). The health component of the social security system is essentially a pay-
as-you-go system in which annual revenues are expected to cover annual costs of the
program. The system, however, runs substantial deficits that are covered with
general revenues. Since 1984, DISSE has maintained annual deficits ranging between
US$29 million and US$74 million. Government subsidies to cover this deficit are
generated through allocations from general revenues and, more importantly, by
earmarking 7 percent of the 22 percent IVA to social security--of which an
unquantified portion is directed to DISSE. DISSE financing represents about one
third of the revenues of IAMCs.
2.13 Private Insurance. Private insurance financing involves the payment of
premiums for IAMC enrollment and the payment of premiums for Seguros Parciales
4 Using the revenues generatd from payroll deductions, DISSE purchases coverage for IAMCs' ailies
at between 85 and 90 percent of the monthly premium caps set by the MEP for the IAMCs.
5 In cases where payroll deduction is possible, the insurance premium is paid by an employer (5 percent
of the payroll) and the employee (3 percent). For non payroll workers, contributions are made through
fixed monthly premiums.



(SPs). IAMCs individual or collective enrollments are paid: (a) directly by private
sector companies that do not use DISSE; (b) through premiums paid by public sector
workers (with a small government subsidy); and (c) by individual contributions. The
SPs offer supplementary insurance that covers services such as ambulance and
emergency coverage (representing about 8 percent of total financing in 1992).
2.14 Out-of-Fbcket Contributions. Private out-of-pocket spending includes
payments for dental services, the purchase of pharmaceuticals, direct fee-for-service
payments for clinical services and copayments for services rendered by the IAMCs.
In the past several years, private out-of-pocket contributions have risen significantly.
In 1992, it was estimated that they accounted for over 13 percent of sector revenues.
The increase has been driven primarily by the growth of private insurance (SPs) and
attempts by the IAMCs to offset internal costs by raising the level of copayments. In
the 1987-93 period copayments increased from roughly 7 percent to 10 percent of
IAMCs' revenues.
Health Sector Spending
2.15 Health sector spending has substantially increased over the past 10 years.
During the 1982-92 period, health care expenditures as a percentage of total public
expenditures increased from 5 to 11 percent. During the same period, total health
care spending as a percentage of GDP rose from 2.7 percent to an estimated 7
percent. The public sector, including the MSP, the National Teaching Hospital, the
Armed Forces and the Police, account for 28 percent of total spending. High
technology financed through the FNR and delivered by the IMAEs (see para. 2.8
above) accounts for about 4 percent of total expenditures (of which 70 percent are
private and 30 percent public). An additional 21 percent is spent annually by
consumers to purchase purely private medical services, either through direct payments
to physicians or to purchase complementary insurance plans (SPs). The LAMCs
account for almost half of all sector spending. Table 5 and Figure 3 in Annex A
illustrate the relative distribution of sector spending.
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT POLICY
A. Issues
3.1  In the midst of difficulties in maintaining expenditures, continuing to provide
health services, especially to the poor, remains a challenge. The sector's viability is
threatened by: (a) the upward pressure on costs; (b) the MSP's weakness in defining
policy and enforcing it through its regulatory and financing functions; and (c) the
MSP's increasing failure to efficiently deliver quality services to the poor and
uninsured. Without action on reform, the sector's medium-term outlook is one of
escalating costs and equity erosion.



- 7 -
Upward Pressure on Health Care Costs
3.2   Despite the achievements of the health care system, a significant escalation of
health care costs combined with limited government revenues threaten to erode the
Government's ability to provide quality health services, especially to the poor and
uninsured. The upward pressure on costs is primarily driven by: (a) an aging
population (by the year 2000, one of every five Uruguayans will be over 60); (b) an
oversupply of physicians (Uruguay has one of the highest concentrations of doctors in
the world); (c) an increase in individuals' expectations as to the amount and quality of
services; and (d) the unregulated growth of SPs.
3.3   Demographic Dynamics. The aging population associated with a higher
prevalence of chronic and degenerative diseases result in a greater demand for more
costly interventions. For example, a study in one of the largest mutual-aid
organizations in Montevideo shows that the variance in the costs per beneficiary can
be as high as tenfold (between the 10 to 14 age group and the 80 to 84 age group).
As a result of the demographic dynamics, the demand for services will progressively
increase and shift towards more costly interventions.
3.4   Physician Oversupply. In 1992, there were almost 10,000 registered
physicians in the country (up from about 3,000 in the mid-1960s). With one
physician for every 310 persons, Uruguay has a higher physician concentration than
the United States (1 per 420), France (1 per 350), and Sweden (1 per 370). Among
the OECD member countries, only Italy has a higher ratio. In the Latin America
Region, Argentina alone seems to be endowed with a similar physician oversupply
(Chile, for example, has a population per physician of 2,150).
3.5   Over the last 25 years, with the exception of the 1976-1983 period when
university quotas were established, the oversupply of physicians has been fueled by
unrestricted admission policies that resulted in an exponential growth in the number of
students who have graduated from the country's only medical school. With the
current enrollment rates, it is projected that about 12,300 physicians will be in
practice by the year 2,000. The oversupply has resulted in physician
overspecialization, unemployment, and underemployment (particularly of younger
doctors), and a widespread practice of working two or three jobs (typically, with the
public sector, the mutual-aid societies, and the for-profit private sector). A severe
shortage of nurses, particularly in the public sector, compounds the human resources
imbalances.
3.6   The problem of physician oversupply and its related problems
(i.e., supplier-induced demand, strength of the physicians' lobby and conflict of
interest) is one of the most critical affecting the health care system. The solution to
this problem, however, is linked to the overall reform of higher education.
3.7  Increased Consumer Demand. The introduction of more sophisticated
technologies, a greater access to health insurance and raising individuals' expectations



- 8 -
as to the amount and quality of care they seek have also contributed to increasing the
quantity and sophistication of the demand for services.
3.8   The Unregulated Rise of Partial Insurance Plans (Seguros Parciales-SPs).
Originally created to provide prepaid insurance for ambulance services, SPs have
recently expanded their insurance benefits to cover some in-patient and outpatient
services. By 1993, 35 SPs had registered with the MSP, and many IAMCs have
plans to begin 'sister" insurance plans through a partial insurance plan. Like the
IAMCs, these insurance plans are financed through monthly payments and use a
variety of provider-financier models. Unlike the IAMCs (which offer similar
packages of comprehensive services for the same premium), SPs are for-profit
institutions. SPs have segmented the market to offer two general packages of
services: (a) a package, targeted at high-income groups, for special needs where
quality is critical (e.g., specialized surgery, high-technology diagnosis, and
emergency services); and (b) a package offering minimum coverage to low-income
populations who cannot afford IAMC premiums but are reluctant to use public sector
facilities. Monthly premia for the high-end packages are approximately double the
IAMCs' premia. The cost of the low-end package is about 35 to 50 percent lower
than the IAMCs' fees.
3.9   Another critical difference is that SPs enjoy a nearly total absence of
regulation. Currently, the only requirement for the opening and operation of SPs is
the initial registration with the MSP. Although SPs have a relatively small and partial
coverage (an estimated 700,000 policies have been subscribed), the potential distortion
to the health system is important. First, the potential for fraud and lax quality
standards is substantial. Second, the economic incentive of SPs is to maximize
profits, thus selecting only the healthiest and youngest individuals and transferring
risk to the public sector. The strengthening of the public sector's regulatory capacity
necessarily involves the regulation of the partial insurance plans.
MSP's Weakness in Defining and Enforcing Policy
3.10 MSP is entrusted with the establishment of sectoral policy, norms of operation
and standards of care, financing and provision of services to the uninsured, and
regulation of the private sector and high technology medical services. Several factors
constrain the MSP's capacity to fully carry out its mandate. First, the MSP lacks the
ability to define policy around well-established and sound priorities. Second, a lack
of integration exists between its policy-setting and its financing and service delivery
functions. Finally, the MSP's regulatory function is ineffective.
3.11 Policy Vacuum. The MSP lacks both the instruments to define priorities and
the mechanisms to enforce their effective implementation. The full-coverage
orientation of the health system has led to a tradition of services for all, on demand,
with little explicit consideration for need and costs. The manner in which the private
and public sectors adjust to the current epidemiological reality differs. To assure
financial viability, the private sector is beginning to introduce mechanisms to ration
services. This is done, however, in a haphazard manner as a cost-cutting mechanism,



- 9 -
with little regard to burden of disease or cost-effectiveness considerations. The
MSP's attempt to rationalize resource allocation focuses on 12 priority programs that
address, in theory, the most important epidemiological problems.6 However, these
programs (with the exception of maternal and child health) receive little support: in
1993, eight of these programs had annual budgets of only about US$12,000, while the
rest received no funding.
3.12 Lack of Integration of MSP Functions. The public sector's different
mandates in the health sector are constrained by a lack of integration among its
policy-setting, regulatory, financing, and service delivery functions. The capacity to
enforce the implementation of policy is hampered by: (a) the creation, in 1987, of a
public agency (Administraci6n de Servicios de Salud del Estado--ASSE) under the
MSP responsible for the financing and delivery of services; and (b) the absence of
strong regulatory and financing functions in the public sector. The creation of ASSE
was intended to strengthen the efficiency in service delivery. By transferring budgets
and responsibilities to ASSE, however, none of the advantages intended was realized
as inefficiencies remained. As ASSE's activities over time have become increasingly
disconnected from MSP's planning functions, the public sector's ability to transform
policy into programs has been reduced.
3.13 Shortcomings of the Regulatory Framework. Regulation has typically
focused on four major areas: (a) establishment of quality standards; (b) control of
prices charged for health insurance premia, or rate regulation; (c) limitations on
IAMCs' revenue levels; and (d) control over the use of high technology medicine. In
spiw of a comprehensive set of government regulations, control has in effect been
heavily oriented toward the setting of premium and rate levels rather than enforcing
policy, correcting market failures, or addressing problems related to equity.
Substantial improvements could be attained by strengthening the regulatory framework
in the areas of financing and quality.
3. i The most pervasive government intervention in financing health services
through the imposition of price controls on the monthly premia paid to the IAMCs.
Price controls are established based on historical estimates of LAMCs costs and
adjustment of price levels to recover a fair return on capital outlays plus operating
expenditures. The methodology has three major weaknesses. First, it creates an
inceniive for the LAMCs to overstate their real operating costs. Second, given that
IAMCs are non-profit institutions, there is little incentive to control costs if higher
costs can be incorporated into the regulated price. Third, the absence of price
coripetition reduces the incentive to increase efficiency. The policy of price controls
on mnnnthly premiums has, to a certain extent, provided a useful mechanism to control
spending. The mechanism, however, could be vastly improved if: (a) the price-
setting for the premiums reflected real costs and created an incentive for internal
efficiency; (b) the same basic package of services could be guaranteed in all IAMCs.;
6 These ae: maternal and child health; mental health; cardiovascular diseases; motor vehicle acciddt;
hydatid cyst; oral and dental health; ophthlmological diseases; lung cancer; breast cancer, STDs and
AID.D;



- 10-
(c) the financing could be linked to service quality and outcomes; and (d) a more
explicit regulatory mechanism to pool risk among IAMCs could be developed.
3.15 While quality standards for facilities and services exist, these are either
incomplete or outdated. In addition, the government has little power to enforce
norms. The MSP lacks the capacity to measure quality in institutions, to link
compliance with minimum standards for financing, or to carry out public information
campaigns publicizing the quality assurance levels of different LAMCs. Priority
should be given to reviewing and updating quality assurance indicators, to establishing
mechanisms for compliance (e.g. licensing, accreditation systems), and to developing
financial incentives for enforcement.
The Public Sector's Comparative Disadvantage in the Delivery of Services.
3.16 The public sector is widely perceived as being inefficient and providing poor-
quality services. Despite information limitations, it is posFible to make comparisons
regarding the delivery of services in the public and private sectors. First, the hospital
average length of stay (ALOS) in the MSP' is 12 days, compared to six days for the
IAMCs. Given that MSP beneficiaries have a lower average age than LAMCs patients
(and therefore a less complex case-mix), longer ALOS in the MSP suggest significant
inefficiencies. Second, expenditure information for Montevideo shows that while per
capita annual expenditures on outpatient visits are only slightly higher for the LAMCs
(US$159 versus US$154 in the MSP), its per capita hospitalization expenditures are
significantly lower (US$130 versus US$231 in the MSP). If these per capita
expenditures are adjusted for age, it is estimated that, in Montevideo, the public
sector could attain savings of about 15 percent by transferring beneficiaries to the
IAMCs.
3.17 Equity is a significant factor supporting the reduction of the role of the MSP in
the direct provision of services. Amidst the difficulties in furthering sector
expenditures, the trend of deteriorating quality in the public sector is likely to
continue. The salaries and commitment of MSP personnel have been substantially
reduced. Similarly, public sector infrastructure has worsened. The health sector is
increasingly developing into a two-tier system, with sub-par public services for the
poor and uninsured, and a private sector offering quality services to the better-off and
the insured. The transfer of MSP beneficiaries to the IAMCs and the strengthening of
the MSP's regulatory and financing role should help attain the objective of minimizing
the equity imbalances.
7 This excludes the National Teaching Hospital.
8 In most LAC countries, this could be explained by the more complex case-mix of public sector facilities
(as a result of referral of the more serious cases to tertiary care institutions in the public sector). In
Uruguay, however, the most complex interventions are performed by the IMAEs (see para. 2.8). This
system largely prevents the 'dumping' of complex cases onto public sector hospitals.



- I1 -
B. Government Sectoral Policy
3.18 The Government's sectoral policy is defined in a September 1993 document,
Andlisis del Sector Salud--Docwnento Preliminar de Estrategias, and in the general
objectives that were defined by Government for the definition of the proposed project.
The main thrust of this policy is to rationalize health sector spending by: (a) reducing
the role of the MSP in the direct provision of services; (b) enhancing the capacity of
the public sector to regulate and finance; (c) strengthening the sector's management
capacity; and (d) improving the sector's ability to set epidemiological priorities,
particularly for preventive and public health programs.
4. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1   Recent Bank assistance has focused on efforts to improve macroeconomic
stability through structural adjustment loans and debt service reduction loans. Short-
term macroeconomic stability was achieved during the Lacalle Administration through
a reduction in the overall public sector deficit and an improvement in macroeconomic
management. External factors, including the economic recovery of neighboring
Argentina and a decline in world interest rates, also contributed to improved
economic well-being. Bank assistance also sought to address medium-term stability
and growth by providing support for the introduction of some structural reforms.
While Bank lending has contributed to trade liberalization and financial sector
reforms, efforts to advance public sector reform have yielded only modest results.
4.2   The ongoing Government/Bank dialogue has resulted in a general agreement
on the pending reform agenda, but the efforts of the current administration to act
substantively to implement this agenda have been thwarted by a lack of broad-based
political support. In these circumstances, the Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS), discussed by the Board on January 25, 1994, has been to provide selective
support to the government in: (a) the private sector's adjustment to competition in an
increasingly open economy; (b) improvements in human capital formation by
enhancing the efficiency of public sector activities in health and education;
(c) treatment of some critical environmental issues; and (d) modest efforts at public
sector reform through ongoing and projected technical assistance.
4.3  In support of this strategy, the Bank has recently approved two operations:
(a) the Irrigation and Natural Resources Management Project (Ln. 3697), which will
develop and implement a soil and water management strategy; and (b) the Basic



- 12 -
Education Quality Improvement Project (Ln. 3729), which aims to improve the
quality, equity, and efficiency of the primary education system. Concurrently with
project preparation, a Health Sector Strategy Report has been carried out; a first draft
White Cover Report was finalized in January 1995. Initial findings of the study
support the objectives of the proposed project and underscore the need to strengthen
the regulatory framework and delegate the MSP's service delivery responsibilities to
the IAMCs. The proposed project addresses three of the four main areas of the
Bank's strategy in Uruguay. Through its objective to increase the efficiency and
quality of health services, it will improve human capital formation. By increasing the
role of the private sector in the delivery of services and improving the regulatory
framework, it will support the private sector's adjustment to competition. Finally, the
proposed project will have a positive effect on public sector reform by gradually
reducing the role of the public sector in the direct delivery of services and possibly
reducing the size of the MSP. In these respects, the proposed project complements
the objectives of other Bank-financed projects, and is fully consistent with the Bank's
CAS for Uruguay.
B. The Bank's Experience and Lessons Leamed
4.4   The project design builds on the experience of relevant operations financed by
the Bank Group over the past decade. Lessons learned from these projects indicate
that successful implementation is closely associated with: (a) linling the definition of
project objectives and scope to a clear policy framework; (b) obtaining strong and
pervasive government commitment; (c) designing simple projects with focused and
modest objectives; and (d) linking financing of critical investments to the
implementation of policy and/or institutional reform.
4.5   Past experience has shown that loans with large technical assistance and study
components can achieve programmatic change more effectively when project design
Is linked to a well-defined policy framework. This is particularly relevant in cases
in which reform components are politically sensitive. The objectives of the proposed
project were developed on the basis of a policy framework that was discussed at
length and in detail with Government. In addition, prior to appraisal, the Government
prepared a comprehensive study to analyze the economic, financial, and legal
feasibility of implementing the govemment's policy. Finally, during preparation
particular attention was given to identifying a critical, but limited, set of areas of
intervention to advance policy.
4.6   Previous projects note the importance of keeping project design simple.
Given the limited institutional capacity of sector agencies, their lack of familiarity
with Bank procedures, and the complexity of the health sector, clarity and simplicity
in project design are paramount. Moreover, project administration mechanisms (i.e.,
planning, programming, budgeting, procurement, and disbursement) must be
transparent and functional. Project preparation has given particular attention to
sharpening the focus of project objectives, specifying the scope of components, and
refining the contents and timetable of the implementation arrangements.



- 13 -
4.7   Political commitment is a critical ingredient in project implementation
performance. Commitment is particularly significant in the case of Uruguay, where
serious efforts to advance reform have been thwarted by a lack of political and public
support. Attention has been given during preparation to gauge the acceptance and
support of the govemment's proposal among the main stakeholders (e.g., opposition
parties, professional associations, and the private sector). In addition, the project has
received the strong endorsement of the current economic team. To ensure
sustainability and project ownership, it is also important that implementation
arrangements be transparent and flexible and strike a fair and manageable balance
between the definition of a clear and implementable set of objectives, and the
possibility of adapting project activities and implementation arrangements to changing
political and institutional environments.
4.8  In general, Bank projects across diverse sectors in Uruguay have revealed that
project execution has been affected by low government salaries, institutional
deficiencies, and a scarcity of well-trained and full-time entrepreneurial staff. A 1993
Country Implementation Review noted the beneficial effects of full-time special units
for project execution, with managers for each component. The project
implementation unit needs to be vested with ample authority and political support and
have adequate capacity to guide the implementation and supervise project activities.
Preparation efforts have been heavily focused on seeking early agreement on the
creation, composition, and responsibilities of the project implementation unit (FISS).
In December 1993, a Presidential Decree created FISS and defined its mandate. The
capacity of the project unit to carry out implementation has been tested during
preparation.
4.9   Because "software" project components require greater attention to detail and
closer supervision, they are generally difficult to implement. Linking "software'
activities (studies, institutional strengthening, and training) to investment
components increases the likelihood that reform-related activities will be
implemented. While the financial weight of equipment investment funds in the
project is small, these funds are linked to the successful completion of "software"
activities.
5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1   The proposed project addresses the Government's sectoral policy goal of
rationalizing health sector spending. Given the complexity inherent in health sector
reforms and existing institutional constraints, the proposed project focuses on a
limiLed set of key and attainable objectives to lay the foundation for incremental and
sustainable improvements. Its aims are twofold: (a) improve the efficiency and
quality of services provided to the poor and uninsured by reducing MSP's role in the



- 14 -
direct provision of health services; and (b) establish the framework for the
development of health sector institutions.
5.2   To realize these aims and build a solid foundation for the health sector, the
proposed project focuses on three areas of reform: (a) facilitating the delegation of
MSP service delivery functions to the private sector--Component I; (b) developing the
sector's regulatory and accreditation functions and selectively strengthening
information systems and human resources--Component II; and (c) setting sector
disease priorities through global-burden-of-disease and cost-effectiveness analyses--
Component m.
B. Detailed Project Description
General Components
5.3   The proposed project consists of the following three components and related
activities:
Component I: The Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery
Responsibilities component (US$5 million equivalent, including
contingencies--18 percent of total project cost) will support the
reduction of the MSP's role in the direct provision of services.
To this end, the project will promote the gradual delegation of
the MSP's service provision responsibilities to eligible entities,
primarily in the private sector. Based on the review of national
and international experience and the analysis of alternatives for
contracting services with eligible entities, the component will
carry out a pilot delegation program in four of the country's 19
departments.
Component II: The Institutional Development component (US$17
million equivalent, including contingencies--61 percent of total project
cost) will strengthen the sector's institutional capacity and management
practices to support the gradual delegation of the MSP's service
provision responsibilities. The component will review and improve, if
needed, the sector's regulatory framework, strengthen the institutional
capacity to regulate, upgrade the sector's management information
system and create a core group of professionals through selective
scholarships.
Component m. The Establishment of Health Sector Disease
Priorities component (US$6 million equivalent, including
contingencies--21 percent of total project cost) will help adjust the
health service model to the country's demographic and epidemiological
profile. On the basis of global-burden-of-disease and related cost-



- 15 -
effectiveness analyses, the component will provide selective support to
priority programs.
Details of Components
Component I: Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities
5.4   Under this component, the project will define analyze and implement, on a
pilot basis, alternatives for contracting the provision of MSP health services to
eligible entities. The principal alternative is the delegation of service provision to the
IAMC sector. Other alternatives include the decentralization of health care services
to local governments and the establishment of public hospitals as independent trusts.
5.5   To address the legal, economic, financial and labor implications of the
delegation of MSP's service delivery responsibilities, the Government has completed a
comprehensive feasibility study. The study was reviewed during appraisal and
establishes the viability of the service delegation strategy. Prior to negotiations, the
Govemment submitted to the Bank a written legal opinion confirming the findings of
the study.
5.6   The project will:
(a)   carry out a review of national and international experience on the
decentralization and delegation of health services;
(b)   establish and analyze different alternatives for contracting the provision
of MSP health services with eligible entities, including the design of
(i) an operational framework for each alternative and (ii) mechanisms
for the payment of services to be provided by eligible entities; and
(c)   carry out a pilot program in about four of the country's nineteen
departments that will involve: (i) selecting eligible departments and
entities to which the provision of services will be delegated;
(ii) drafting the legal contractual agreements for each of the alternatives
defined in (b) above; (iii) contracting (delegation agreement) the
provision of health services with eligible entities in the pilot
departments; (iv) strengthening the capacity of eligible entities through
technical assistance, training and medical equipment by signing an
agreement (assistance agreement) between the MSP and the eligible
entity; and (v) designing and implementing an evaluation system to
assess the viability and impact of the delegation of service provision.
5.7   It is expected that preliminary results from the pilot program will be available
by the end of the third year of project implementation. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that a complete evaluation of the pilot
program will be carried out no later than December 31, 1997.



- 16 -
5.8   The project will finance medical equipment, technical assistance and studies,
training, workshops and seminars. Capacity strengthening of institutions through the
assistance agreement will cost about US$2.5 million and involve financing of medical
equipment, training, and technical assistance. Conditions of disbursement under this
component include: (a) for the implementation of the pilot program, the review and
improvement, if needed, of the sector's regulatory fraamework to be carried out under
Component II; and (b) for the strengthening of the capacity of eligible entities, the
signing of delegation and assistance agreements between the MSP and the eligible
entity and the requirement mentioned in (a) herein The minimum terms of conditions
of the delegation and assistance agreements are included in the project's
implementation manual.
Component II: Institutional Development
5.9   Under this component, the project will: (a) review and improve, if needed,
the sector's regulatory framework to facilitate the delegation of service provision and
the institutional reorganization of the sector, with emphasis on linking sector financing
to sector priorities and quality standards; (b) design and implement the institutional
reorganization of the MSP to strengthen its regulatory functions;
(c) design and implement the sector's management information system (MIS); and
(d) strengthen the technical and management capacity of sector professionals.
5.10  Legal Framework. During project preparation, the current laws and
regulatory framework were found not to conflict with either contracting of the MSP's
provision of health services with eligible entities (e.g., IAMCs) or with the
anticipated reorganization of MSP.
5.11  To facilitate the reform process, the proposed project will carry out a
comprehensive review of the health sector regulatory framework, strengthening it, if
needeJ, to facilitate: (a) contracting with eligible entities the MSP's provision of
health services under the pilot program; and (b) the institutional reorganization of the
healWi sector. This activity will be carried out during the first four months of
implementation. The project will finance: (a) consulting services (about 17
specialist-months), and (b) four workshops (of three days each with about 25
participants) to present the new regulatory framework and hold discussions with key
healtb sector stakeholders and legislators.
5.17 Institutional Capacity Strengthening of MSP. The MSP lacks the capacity
to drfine policy and effectively enforce it through regulatory and financing functions.
Moreover, the MSP is ill-equipped to negotiate contractual arrangements with the
private sector (either directly, for services provided to MSP beneficiaries as proposed
unde; Component I of the proposed project, or indirectly for services provided
through DISSE). The proposed project will help establish a new organizational
framework to strengthen the regulatory and financing capacity, with an emphasis on:
(a) establishing priority interventions; (b) linking sector priorities to the allocation of
funds to providers; and (c) linking quality standards to financing through a national



- 17 -
quality evaluation and accreditation system. Institutional strengthening of the sector
in the area of regulation will ensure sustainability of the actions (i.e., delegation of
MSP's service provision responsibilities) proposed under the first component of the
project.
5.13 To this aim, the project will define: (a) the contents of the regulatory and
financing functions of the MSP; and (b) actions required to reinforce these two
functions, including the design of new regulatory and/or financing systems, as
needed. These activities will be carried out during the first two years of
implementation. The project will finance: (a) about 18 specialist-months of technical
assistance (expected to be contracted with individual consultants) for the conceptual
design of the financing/regulatory system; (b) study visits to four countries with
strong regulatory and financing systems; and (c) a study, to be contracted with a firm,
to carry out the institutional and functional design of the regulatory and financing
systems.
5.14 The start up and implementation of the new financing/regulatory system will
be carried out during the final three years of the project. To support this activity, the
project will finance: (a) technical assistance (14 specialist-months) to monitor
implementation; (b) four workshops to disseminate the mandate, organizational
structure, functions of the new system; and (c) training for the new system's higher-
level staff.
5.15 Management Information System. The strengthening of the sector's
institutional capacity to regulate is linked to the upgrading of the MSP's management
information system (MIS). Improvements will take place in three areas:
(a)   service delivery institutions, particularly in the four pilot areas where
service delivery delegation will occur;
(b)   central MSP in two critical functions: (a) supervision and performance
evaluation of service delivery institutions of the public and private
sectors (IAMC); and (b) administrative management (i.e., management
of human resources, accounting, and procurement); and
(c)   recording and maintaining vital statistics.
5.16 The MIS development and implementation will occur in three stages:
(a)   stage one (year 1): MIS conceptual design; and development of terms
of reference for design of the operating system;
(b)   stage two (year 2): design of the operating system, including software
development and the definition of hardware needs; and
(c)   stage three (years 3, 4, and 5): MIS implementation.



- 18 -
5.17 The conceptual design of the MIS will be done during the first year of
implementation by a team of consultants, including: (a) two higher-level MIS design
professionals; (b) one systems engineer; (c) one health professional with a specialty in
health services administration; and (d) one programmer. Draft terms of reference for
these consultants have been completed. The team will develop: (a) the conceptual
design of the MIS; and (b) detailed terms of reference and bidding documents for the
selection of the firm that will design the operating system, including the definition of
hardware and software needs. This activity will be complemented by two study tours
(consisting of two persons each) to review and evaluate international experiences in
MIS design and implementation.
5.18 The second year of the project will involve the operational design of the MIS
and software development. This activity will be carried out by the firm selected at
the end of the first year of implementation. The firm's work wil be monitored by a
team of two consultants (i.e., an MIS specialist and a systems engineer).
5.19  The implementation of the MIS wiUl be strategicaly phased over the final three
years of project execution based on the following timetable:
(a)   year 3: health service institutions in the pilot program;
(c)   year 3: vital statistics;
(d)   year 4: health service institutions outside the pilot program; and
(f)   year 5: administrative systems of the MSP's central level.
5.20 Strengthening Human Resources. The country currently lacks a critical mass
of professionals in the areas of health services administration, health economics, and
public health. The implementation and sustainability of reforms require a core group
of specialists in each of these areas. The project will support improvements in the
sector's human resource base through national and international scholarships in three
areas: (a) public health/epidemiology; (b) hospital management; and (c) health
economics. To this aim, the project will finance: (a) 16 two-year, masters-level
scholarships abroad; and (b) 72 one-year national scholarships. The criteria to be met
by tile eligible professionals and the minimum terms and conditions of the
scholarships to be granted have been included in the project's Implementation Manual.
Component m: Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities
5.21 Under this component, resource allocation within the sector, particularly for
public health interventions, will be rationalized based on analysis of global-burden-of-
disease and cost-effectiveness studies (see Annex C for a description of cost-
effectiveness analysis). In addition, the component will support the design of service
quality standards for the eventual implementation of a health services accreditation
system to be put in place as part of Component II.



- 19 -
5.22 The project will carry out the following activities:
(a)   a review of international experience in disease priority-setting and the
establishment of cost-effective health interventions, analyzing
approaches most appropriate for Uruguay;
(b)   a review and redefinition of the current standards for the provision of
health services at the different levels of the system (health service
delivery model);
(c)    a nationwide disease priority-setting analysis;
(d)   strengthening of selected priority programs (e.g., cardiovascular
diseases, AIDS/STDs);
(e)   an evaluation to assess the impact of rationalizing sector disease
priorities;
(f)    designing nationwide quality assessment and accreditation standards and
systems (on the basis of this design, and as part of the establishment of
a new regulatory framework under Component II, the project will
support the implementation of these systems); and
(g)   an evaluation of the implementation of quality evaluation and
accreditation systems.
5.23 The project will finance:
(a)   consultant services to carry out: (i) the design and implementation of
the cost-effectiveness methodology; (ii) the design and implementation
of the quality evaluation system; (iii) the impact evaluation of the
implementation of health sector priorities and quality evaluation
systems; and (iv) activities related to the strengthening of priority
public health programs. It is expected that a majority of these
consulting services will be contracted to firms;
(b)   training and workshops to familiarize health sector staff with cost-
effectiveness analysis and quality evaluation systems; and
(c)   equipment and supplies to support priority programs.
5.24 Expected outcomes of the proposed project were agreed during negotiations
(see Annex B) and include, inter alia: (a) the delegation of services for, at a
minimum, 35,000 MSP beneficiaries; (b) a decrease of at least 15 percent in the
average cost per beneficiary following the delegation of services; and (c) the
development of national public health campaigns linked to the five most cost-effective
health interventions.



- 20 -
Strategy for Reform
5.25 Based on the findings and lessons learned from the project, the Government
will elaborate a comprehensive health sector strategy to further the reform process
and guide govemment policy in the five years folowing project completion. A first
draft of this report wiUl be prepared two months before the mid-term review of the
proposed project. A final version of the report wiU be prepared nine months before
the project's completion date. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that a draft strategy wiU be prepared no later than January 31, 1998, and
finalized no later than March 31, 1999.
6. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1 The total project cost is estimated at US$28.0 million equivalent, including
taxes (US$5.1 milion equivalent) and physical and price contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is about US$17.1 million, or 61 percent of total project costs.
Project costs by component are summarized in Table 6.1. Detailed cost tables are
provided in Annex D, Table 1.
6.2   Contingency Allowances. The total project cost includes contingencies of
TJS$3.8 million equivalent (15.8 percent of baseline costs). Physical contingencies of
UJS$1.7 milion equivalent (7.1 percent) are for computers and technology equipment,
and furniture and equipment. Price contingencies (US$2.1 million equivalent),
-epresenting 8.7 percent of base costs, reflect projected price increases for foreign
Xosts, estimated in US dollars at 2.86 percent (1995), 3.04 percent (1996), 2.72
percent (1997), 2.70 percent (1998) and 2.34 percent (1999), as well as projected
local inflation.
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.3   The proposed project will generate minimal incremental recurrent costs.
Administrative costs related to managing FISS (e.g., secretarial support, rent and
utilities, maintenance of office equipment and office supplies) represent only about
four percent of total project costs, and will be funded by the Government. Personnel
costs are not recurrent since FISS will be composed of consultants under short- or
medium-term contracts, and FISS is expected to be dismantled at the end of project
implementation. The proposed project enjoys broad political support within both the
outgoing and the incoming Administrations. Most importantly, the proposed
operation has received the endorsement of prominent interest groups, such as the
Uruguayan Medical Association as well as a number of private sector institutions.
While project sustainability is not related to the Government's ability to accommodate
the project fiscally, it is heavily dependent on the political will as well as the technical



- 21 -
Table 6.1: Project Cost Summary By Component
Local   Foreign    Total
% Foreign   % of Total
-  US$ million-          Exchange   Base Costs
I.   Delegation of MSP's
Service Delivery
Responsibilities         2.1       2.2      4.3         51.0         17.8
Il.  Institutional
Development              4.6      10.1      14.7        68.7         61.0
m.  Establishment of Health
Sector Disease
Priorities               3.2       2.0      5.2         38.0        21.5
Total Baseline Costs           9.9       14.3     24.2        59.0        100.0
Physical Contingencies    0.5       1.2      1.7         70.5         7.1
Price Contingencies       0.5       1.6      2.1         76.1         8.7
Total Project Cost
10.9      17.1     28.0         61.0       115.8
ability to incorporate the project's recommendations and lessons learned from the pilot
experiences into broader reform efforts. The political will was confirmed during
appraisal, when the project received explicit support from representatives of the two
main political parties.
C. Fnancing Plan
6.4   The proposed loan of US$15.6 million equivalent will finance 55.7 percent of
the total project cost. It will cover US$12.8 million equivalent or 75 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures, and US$2.8 million equivalent or 16 percent of
estiriated local costs. The Government will finance US$12.4 million, or 44.3 percent
of total costs. Table 6.2 summarizes the project's financing plan. During appraisal,
it was agreed that the Govemment's counterpart funding requirements will be (in US
dollars equivalent): US$1.6 million, US$2.5 million, US$3.5 million, US$2.4
millicn, and US$2.4 million, respectively, for the five years of implementation. The
Government has submitted to the Bank a letter from the MEF stating that: (a) the
MSP will receive a cash advance equivalent to about two months of projected



- 22 -
counterpart expenditures to initiate project execution; (b) the MEF will make available
the remaining balance for the first year of implementation in treasury notes earmarked
to the MSP for project execution; and (c) a cash balance of no less than US$100,000
equivalent will be maintained in the project account at all times.
6.5   A condition of loan effectiveness is that the Borrower deposits in the project
account an amount equivalent to not less than US$175,000, and designate treasury
notes with a face value equivalent to the remaining balance of the counterpart funding
requirements of the first year of implementation. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that annual amounts of counterpart funding will be made available for
each of the five years of project implementation, and a cash balance of no less than
US$100,000 will be maintained in the project account at all times. Annex D, Table
2, includes the detailed financing plan per project year.
Table 6.2: Financing Plan
US$ million           Percentage
Government                 12.4                  44.3
EBRD                       15 6                    7
Total                     28.0                  100
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Preparation
7.1   Project preparation has been financed by the Borrower, and two advances from
the i'roject Preparation Facility (PPF) totaling US$865,000, dated April 1, 1993 and
May 9, 1994. The Government initiated preparation activities in July 1993, when a
project preparation unit was established.
B. Project Management and Coordination
7.2   The MSP will be responsible for project implementation. A Presidential
Decree of December 1993 (see Annex E) created a project implementation unit under
the MSP, i.e., Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto de Fortalecinuento Institucional del
Sector Salud (FISS). FISS prepared the project and will be responsible for its
implementation. Its mandate includes: (a) carrying out the project's technical and
admidistrative functions; (b) coordinating with all relevant units of the MSP and
other public and private agencies; (c) monitoring and evaluating project activities;
and (d) reporting to the Bank.



- 23 -
7.3 During implementation, FISS will work closely with MSP staff and will
initially consist of about 10 higher-level and eight support staff. It will be organized
around four management units headed by a general project coordinator. Three
technical units will be in charge of implementing the three project components. Two
staff will integrate the financial/accounting unit responsible for the project's financial
management, including, inter alia, the submission of disbursement applications to the
Bank. An administrative unit, initially staffed with two professionals, will be
responsible for procurement and contractual activities. An organizational chart of
FISS is included in Annex E. A condition of loan effectiveness is that FISS is fully
staffed and its coordinator has been appointed.
7.4   During preparation FISS has produced four basic documents to guide
implementation, which together constitute the project's implementation manual: (a) a
project document (Docunento Componentes del Proyecto--Preliminar--Sexta Versio5n,
junio de 1994) that provides the overall description of and rationale for the project
and details all activities to be carried out in each of the project's components; (b) a
cost and implementation document (Cuadros de Resunen de los Componentes del
Proyecto FISS, Sexta Versi6n, junio de 1994) that summarizes the project's activities,
defines the disbursement category and cost for each activity, and provides detailed
implementation timetables and key steps; (c) an administrative manual of the project
(Manual Adninistrativo, junio de 1994) defining the FISS organization and
administrative rules, and including terms of reference for each FISS position and
terms of reference for the annual audits (Estudio de Auditorfa Financiero-Contable,
junio de 1994); and (d) a document containing draft terms of reference for all
consulting services to be contracted during implementation (Docwnento de Terminos
de Referencia, mayo de 1994). In addition, FISS has prepared an implementation
guideline for Accounting and Disbursement Requests that has been used to manage
PPF funds and will be applicable during implementation. Finally, the Govemment
has prepared draft documents with eligibility criteria for the selection of departments
and entities to which MSP service provision responsibilities will be delegated,
selection of the priority public health programs, and for the award of scholarships.
Each of these documents was updated to reflect the adjustments agreed during
appraisal and was incorporated into an implementation manual. A condition of loan
effectiveness is that the Implementation Manual has been duly approved by the MSP.
C. Implementation Schedule
7.5   The project will be implemented over five years (i.e., the beginning of CY95
through the end of CY99). Phasing of the various project activities is summarized in
the Implementation Plan included in Annex F. During negotiations, the mission and
the Government agreed on a set of critical actions to be completed during
implementation. These actions are defined in the Implementation Program included in
Annex F. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will
carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and within the
parameters of the Implementation Program.



- 24 -
D. Procurement
7.6   The proposed project will involve procurement of goods and consultant
services. Procurement of goods and services, subject to Bank financing, will be
carried out by FISS in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement activities will
be carried out by FISS, which has proven experience and capacity in this area.
Arrangements for procurement and limits by type are summarized in Table 7.1. The
procurement review procedures are summarized in Table 7.2. Annex F provides the
procurement timetable (Project Implementation Schedule). To cover discrepancies
between local procurement laws and regulations and Bank procurement policy, the
following special provisions will be included in Schedule I to the Loan Agreement:
(a)   foreign bidders and foreign consultants will not, as a condition for
submitting bids, be required to enter into a joint-venture agreement
with local bidders or local consultants;
(b)   contracts will be awarded to the bidder with the lowest evaluated bid in
accordance with the evaluation criteria specified in the bidding
documents;
(c)   foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding;
(d)   consultants will be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines, and not
through open bidding;
(e)   the bidding process will not be cancelled in the event that less than
three bids are received;
(f)   bidders will not be required to legalize bid documents with consulates;
(g)  the use of local personnel will not be imposed on foreign contractors,
except for unskilled labor; and
(h)   the prices of contracts extending more than one year may be adjusted.



- 25 -
Table 7.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
.______________________________ _   (TJSS     million    equivalent)
Procurement Nhcd !oI
Procurement Element                ICB          LCBI        OTHER    I  N.B.F.
1. Goods
Computer Hardware and Softwvare        11.0                      1.3     a/
(3.4)                    (1.0)
Medical Equipment and Supplies                                                  3.3
(0.0)
Vehicles                                                         0.2      bl
(0.2)
Office Equipment and Furniture                                                  0.1
(0.0)
2. Consulting Services and Training                                 10.1    c:
3. Administrative Costs                                                            1.1
(0.0)
4. PPF Refinancing                                                  0.9
(0.9)            __
TOTAL                                    11.0                      12.5           4.5
(3.4)    __________      (7.2)          (0.0)
2/ Shopping.
b/ LL-rited International Bidding (L13).
c! Consulting se. ices.
Note: ICB       International Ccmpetitive 3idd:n3
LCB       Local Compe,itive Bidding
N.B.F.   Not Bank-financed.
Numbers in parentheses reelect Bank financing.



- 26 -
Table 7.2: Summary of Procurement Review Procedures
I|         I Prior Bank
Category                     Procedure     Review
Goods
Computer Hardware and Software
Less than US$100,000                          Shopping
US$100,000 or more                              ICB          All
Vehicles                                         LTB           All
Consultant Services
Contracts with firms for US$100,000 or more                  All
Contracts with individuals for US$50,000 or more              All
Note: ICB = International Competitive Bidding; LIB = Limited International Bidding.
Goods
7.7   Goods will include computer hardware and software, and vehicles, and are
expected to total about US$12.5 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts
for goods (principally for computer hardware and software) will be combined in
packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more, and will be awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure. Limited International Bidding
(LJI) could be used for the procurement of vehicles for contracts valued at less than
US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000. ICB and LIEB of goods will
require the use of Bank standard bidding documents. Shopping (international and
local) could be used for contracts of computer hardware and software applications
valued at less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million. All
ICB will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Computer hardware and software may be
procured on the basis of ICB under a two-stage procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
Consulting Services
7.8   Preparation of studies, technical assistance, and project coordination will be
carried out by national and foreign consultants, contracted in accordance with
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
time-based consultants should be employed under contracts using the standard form



- 27 -
of contract for consultant services issued by the World Bank Group in May 1993.
Total allocation is estimated to amount to approximately US$6.1 million for
consulting firms and US$4 million for individual consultants.
Review of Procurement
7.9   Prior review by the Bank will be carried out for all contracts for goods to be
procured under ICB and LIB. It is estimated that during the life of the project about
six contracts and award recommendations, representing about 90 percent of the total
value of contracts, will require prior review by IBRD. IBRD will review ex-post, on
a selected basis, contracts and bid evaluations for goods purchased under shopping
procedures.
7.10 The Bank will review all documentation for consulting services included in
the project. For consultant contracts with firms that cost less than US$100,000 and
up to US$2 million, and for consultant contracts for individuals that cost less than
US$50,000 and up to US$1 million, the Bank prior review will cover only the
corresponding terms of reference before contracting9. The Bank will conduct a
selective ex-post review of support contract documents during supervision.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.11  The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in accordance
with the schedule shown in Annex G, Table 1 over a period of five years. The
disbursement period was determined on the basis of the profile of other Bank projects
with an emphasis on technical assistance and studies. The project completion date
will be December 31, 1999 and the project closing date will be June 30, 2000.
7.12 Annex G, Table 2 contains the disbursement allocations. Disbursements will
be made against the following categories of expenditures: (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for goods, hardware equipment, software applications, and vehicles; and
(b) 50 percent of expenditures for consulting services and training.
7.13  Withdrawal appEcations for goods with a contract value of US$100,000
equivalent or more, and services with a contract value of US$100,000 or more and
US$50,000 or more for the employment of consulting firms and individual
consultants, respectively, will be supported by full documentation. Disbursements
will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) against expenditures
for contracts: (a) less than US$100,000 for goods; (b) less than US$100,000 and
9 This exception shall not apply to: (a) single-source selection of consulting firms;
(b) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank;
(c) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising in the contract value to
US$100,000 equivalent or above, or (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to US$50,000 equivalent or above.



- 28 -
US$50,000 for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants,
respectively; and (c) disbursements against expenditures not undertaken by contract.
Supporting documentation for these expenditures will be retained by FISS and
available for periodic review by Bank staff.
7.14 Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation the Government
will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the Central Bank of Uruguay
or a commercial bank. An allocation of US$800,000 (equivalent to the average four-
month project financing requirement) has been authorized to be deposited in the
Special Account. However, the allocation should not exceed US$400,000 equivalent
until an aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of US$2.5 million.
7.15 Retroactive Financing. During appraisal, the Government requested that
US$1.2 million (7.6 percent of the total Bank financing) be made available for
expenditures made after July 31, 1994 but prior to the signing of the Loan
Agreement. The project will retroactively finance up to US$1.2 million of
expenditures incurred after July 31, 1994.
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
7.16  The project's accounts will be available for inspection by the Bank. Annually
audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months following the
end of the Govemment's fiscal year. The annual audit reports will include, inter
alia: (a) an audit of the project, including (i) a statement of sources and
applications of funds, (ii) a statement of assets and liabilities, and (iii) supplementary
financial information containing a matrix of cumulative project performance, a
summary of significant bids processed and awarded, a list of main contractors and
contracts, and the status of the financial execution of technical assistance; (b) an
auditor's opinion on the eligibility of expenses submitted through Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs); (c) compliance opinions of the financial-managerial
covenants in the Loan Agreement; (d) an audit of the special account; (e) a
management letter; and (f) a disclosure of the audit procedures utilized. The
audit will be performed by the Court of Accounts of the Republic (7hbunal de
Cuentas de la Repziblica) or a private firm of independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Draft terms of reference for the annual audits have been submitted to the
Bank and are currently being reviewed.
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
7.17 The proposed project incorporates a comprehensive monitoring system,
including implementation timetables and the definition of a dated plan of action with
dates for the implementation of key steps to be carried out under each component



- 29 -
(see para. 7.5 and Annex F). Annex F also includes a summary of the expected
outcomes of the project. During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Government, through FISS, will submit to the Bank quarterly progress
reports no later than 30 days after the end of every quarter of each calendar year,
and the last quarterly report of each calendar year will include an assessment of
overall implementation progress over the past year; and (b) the Govemment, through
FISS, will submit to the Bank a detailed work program plan for the following year
no later than December 1 of each year.
7.18 The Government and the Bank would hold Annual Reviews no later than
March 31 each year. In addition, the Government and the Bank would hold a Mid-
Term Review no later than March 31, 1998. The Mid-Term Review would evaluate,
among other things: (a) progress in the completion of the critical project stages
defined in the implementation plan; (b) compliance with the Loan Agreement's legal
covenants; (c) adequacy of available and programmed financing; (d) compliance with
procurement and disbursement arrangements; (e) results of annual project audits; and
(f) the quarterly progress reports. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that: (a) annual implementation reviews should take place not later than March 31 of
each year; and (b) a mid-term review should take place no later than March 31,
1998.
H. Environmental Impact
7.19 The proposed project does not present any significant environmental risks. It
has been assigned a 'C' environmental rating.
8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1 The main benefit of the proposed project will be to help the Government of
Uruguay develop a methodological and institutional foundation to rationalize health
sector spending. By defining operational alternatives to reduce the MSP's role in the
direct provision of services and testing these alternatives on a pilot basis, the project
will provide a solid empirical base for a broad reform of the sector aimed at reducing
_neffliciencies and improving equity. The project will enhance the government's
ability to better link priorities and quality to financing by means of strengthening its
financing and regulatory capacity. By improving management information systems,
the proposed operation will enhance the information base for decision-making. The
project will help improve the human resource base in the sector through scholarships
in critically deficient areas. Finally, by building mechanisms for setting priorities
(i.e., global burden of disease and cost-effectiveness), the project will help establish
a sounder, more rational basis for health interventions.



- 30 -
B. Risks
8.2   The two principal risks of the proposed project are: (a) possible lack of
future political commitment to reform in the health sector; and (b) project
implementation demands outstripping the MSP's managerial capacity. Political
commitment is particularly important in the case of Uruguay, where in the past
serious efforts to advance reform have been thwarted by lack of political and public
support. This risk will be minimized by: (i) the attention given during preparation
to ensure the acceptance and support of the key stakeholders in the health sector; and
(ii) a project design that is not overly ambitious, and permits gradual building of the
capacity and knowledge base for reforms. With regard to the project's demands
outstripping the MSP's managerial capacity, this risk should be minimized by: (i) a
full-time project unit that has successfully managed preparation and is familiar with
Bank Guidelines, following its administration of two advances from the PPF; (ii) a
conservative implementation timetable; and (iii) annual and mid-term project reviews
to assess implementation progress and adjust the pace and scope of implementation as
needed.
9. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
9.1   During negotiations, agreements were reached that:
(a)   a complete evaluation of the pilot program will be carried out no later
than December 31, 1997 (para. 5.7);
(b)   a draft strategy will be prepared no later than January 31, 1998, and
finalized no later than March 31, 1999 (para 5.25);
(c)   annual amounts of counterpart funding will be made available for each
of the five years of project implementation, and a cash balance of no
less than US$100,000 will be maintained in the project account at all
times (para. 6.5);
(d)   the Government will carry out the project in accordance with the
Implementation Manual and within the parameters of the
Implementation Program (para. 7.5);
(e)   the Government, through FISS, will submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports no later than 30 days after the end of every quarter of
each calendar year, and the last quarterly report of each calendar year
will include an assessment of overall implementation progress over the
past year; and (a) the Government, through FISS, will submit to the
Bank a detailed work program plan for the following year not later
than December 1 of each year (para. 7.17); and



- 31 -
(f)   annual implementation reviews should take place no later than March
31 of each year, and a mid-term review should take place no later than
March 31, 1998 (para. 7.18).
9.2   Conditions of loan effectiveness are that: (a) the MEF deposit in the project
account an amount equivalent to no less than US$175,000 and designate treasury
notes with a face value equivalent to the remaining balance of the counterpart funding
requirements of the first year of implementation (para 6.5); (b) FISS is fully staffed
and its coordinator has been appointed (para. 7.3); and (c) the Implementation
Manual has been approved by the MSP (para. 7.4).
9.3   Conditions of disbursement under the Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery
Responsibilities component (Component I) include: (a) for the implementation of the
pilot program, the review and improvement, if needed, of the sector's regulatory
framework to be carried out under the Institutional Development component; and
(b) for the strengthening of the capacity of eligible entities, the signing of delegation
and assistance agreements between the MSP and the eligible entity and the
requirement mentioned in (a) herein (para. 5.8).
B. Recommendation
9.4   With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.6 million to the Republic of
Uruguay, repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace.



- 32 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Figure 1: Demographic Projections by Age Group
5000
LI)
D  3000
0
2000 
1000                         Y
0
1985   2000   2025   2050   2075   2100O  2125   2150
Year



-3 -                                             A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Infant Mortality Rate Compared with Selected Countries
1975 - 1990
Country                         1975                  1990               % Decrease
Uruguay                          58                    23                    60
Bolivia                         205                    125                   39
Guatemala                        152                   84                    45
Mexico                           95                    38                    60
Argentina                        56                    26                    54
Chile                            68                    20                    71
Cuba                             34                    12                    65
Sweden                            10                    8                    20
Latin America & the
Caribbean                        104                   60                    42
Source: The World Bank. World Development Report. July 1993.
Table 2: Proportional Causes of Death by Gender in Uruguay
1980 - 1991
1980                               1991
Total       Male    Female        Total        Male  Female
Cardiovascular        40.7       37.3        44.8        38.7        34.7       43.4
Disease
Tumors                20.3       20.7        19.7        24.4        26.1       22.4
Infectio is            5.7        5.4         6.0         4.8         4.5        5.3
Diseases
Accidents &            6.6        8.6         4.3         4.7         5.8        3.4
Violencc
Other Chzonic         6.3         6.9         5.6         5.8         5.9        5.6
& DegcnerLtivc
Discases
Congenital and         4.3        4.4         4.2         2.6         2.7        2.4
Perinat.1l
Diseases
Rest of cfned          8.8        8.7         9.0        12.7        13.4       11.8
causes
III-defiuaed           7.3        8.0         6.4         6.3         6.9        5.7
causes
*      Includes dibets. peptic ulcer, cirrhosis, bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, nephrits, and nephrosis.
Source: MI'P statistics.



-34 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Distribution of Health Sector Coverage by Sector
and Provider/Insurer (1992)
Sector     Provider/lnsurer          Percent of Coverage
MSP                                       27.7
Air Force (SFFAA)                          6.8
Public     Police (SSPP)                               4.1
Other institutions                         2.5
IMAE
Subtotal                                  41.1
IAMC                                      50.2
Private    Other Private Providers                     1.9
Private  MAE
Subtotal                                  52.1
No Formal Coverage                                     6.8
Tntal                                               1n 0
Source: 1991 Household Survey; SINADI; and Meerhoff (1994) for armed forces data



- 35 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMtENT PROJECT
TABLE 4: Institutional Structure of IAMCs
Type of              Management           Relationship with    Payment               % Total      % Members
IAMC                                      Providers            Mechanisms
MEMBER               Elected by           Generally contract    Provider             14%          25%
COOPERATIVES:   members of the           physicians and        reimbursement is
MUTUALES             institutions from    manage IPAs to       through a
among members       provide services in    combination of
proprietary          salary and fee-for-
facilities           service
OWNER                Managed by           Personnel are often    Provider            86%          75%
OPERATED AND    groups of                the owners, thus      reimbursement is
MANACED              physicians. Two      assuming the         through a salaries
basic types:        financial risk and   and fee-for-service
Union affiliated    having a pecuniary
Non-union           interest to increase
affiliated          revenues
UNION                Physicians union     Most services are    Each doctor is        46%          52%
AFFILIATED           elects other union    provided by         both a partner and
members to run      contract, with       employee. All
the IAMC. Union    either another        union physicians
maintains control    IAMC, MSP, or       are entitled to
of decisions        private hospital.    practice in IAMC
and doctors have
Examples:                                full autonomy over
CASMU & FEMI                             choice of treatment
NON-UNION            Management is       Very little           Large share of        40%          23%
AFFILIATED           selected by the      infrastructure, most   revenues from
owners of the       services purchased    DISSE. Similar
IAMC from either   from third parties    Dr. reimbursement
owners or other                          to union-affiliated
managers



- 36 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Figure 2: Health Sector Revenues (1992)
Other Income (4%)
User Fees ( 13%)
Monthly Premiums (40%)
Pawroll Taxes (15%)
General Revenues (280%e)



- 37 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Distribution of Health Sector Spending (1992)
Current N$ (thousands)
1992 NS        As % of Sector      As % of GDP
I                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Spending
Public
MSP                              443,149              15.55%              1.28%
Armed Forces LIER                 117,803              4.13%              0.34%
H. Clinica                        66,692              2.34%               0.19%
FNR                                38,605              1.35%              0.11%
Public Companies                  129,400             4.54%               0.38"/o
BPS Child/Mother                  40,000               1.40%              0 1:2/
Subtotal                         835,649              29.32%              2.42'/i i
Private
IAMC                            1,366,279            47.95%               3.56%
FNR                                89,935              3.16%              0.26% |
S. Parcial                        168,000              5.90%              0.490,6|
Private Spending                 389,777              13.68%              1.13%
Subtotal                        2,013,991             70.68%              5.84%
.IntaL                              2g4gR4q,A             n 1OOflfl0/         R2 a0/.



-38 -
Annex A
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPiNIENT PROJECT
Figure 3: Health Sector Expenditures (1992)
Other Public (6%)
I!,,AE (40%)'.
Armed Forces (4%)
S. Parciales (6%)
IAMCs (47%16)
Private Spending (15%)
NISP.HC (18%)



39 -
Annex B
EXPECTlED OUTCOMES
Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities
*     At least 4 tertiary and 4 secondary level MSP hospitals in
the pilot area would be transferred totally or partially to
the LAMC sector; and
*     at least 35,000 MSP beneficiaries currently receiving care
in MSP facilities in the pilot area would be receiving care
at LAMC facilities.
II.   Institutional Development:
An essential package of services to MSP beneficiaries
receiving care in the IAMCs is defined and guaranteed at
an average cost per beneficiary which is, at a minimum,
15 percent lower than the average cost per beneficiary in
MSP facilities (adjusting for age); and
*     the enrollment in key health sector positions of at least 16
masters-level professionals in the areas of health
economics, public health/epidemiology and hospital
management.
III. Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities
The ranking of, at least, the fifty most critical health
interventions (as defined by the global burden of disease
and cost-effectiveness analyses); and
the development of national public health and health
prevention campaigns linked to, at least, the five most
cost-effective health interventions.
IV. Overall
Based on the project's main findings and lessons learned,
the elaboration of a comprehensive health sector strategy
to further the reform process and guide government
policy in the sector in the five years following project
completion.



- 40 -
Annex C
COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS
Resources for the delivery of health services are limited in every country, and
choices need to be made as to which health services should be financed by the government.
Resource allocation decisions imply making tradeoffs between-funding one type of health
program or another. For example, choosing to construct a hospital may take funding,
personnel, and materials away from other health services. In order to evaluate which
tradeoffs are "worth" the cost, health planners can use the methodology of cost-
effectiveness analysis. Because health effects are measured in common units across
interventions, cost-effectiveness ratios can be compared. In cost-effectiveness analysis
(CEA), the economic cost (see Chapter 5) of a health intervention is divided by an estimate
of the health effects (see Chapter 4): the interventions with the smallest ratios are
considered to be the most cost-effective. By this approach, health interventions can be
ranked according to their cost-effectiveness ratios, and the most cost-effective programs
selected as health priorities for funding by governments.
CEA is one economic method which can be used to evaluate health services. Other
approaches rely on different measures of health intervention effectiveness. For CEA,
health effects are measured in physical units, such as the number of children fully
immunized, the number of cases of disease prevented or treated, and the number of deaths
averted. These output measures may or may not correspond directly with actual health
benefts. Other types of cost-effectiveness analyses combine the impact of health
interventions on both morbidity and mortality using a more comprehensive measure.
Examples include the cost per disability-adjusted life year saved, and the cost per quality-
adjusted life year (QALY) saved. In the latter case, individuals are asked to evaluate their
prefere.nces for 1) additional years of healthy life; 2) additional years of disease; 3)
improved health status with no impact on additional survival; and 4) additional years of life
added but with disablement.' These preferences (utilities) are given a value between 0 and
100%, with death equal to 0% utility. This approach is sometimes referred to as cost-
utility analysis (CUA) in that the utility valuations of individuals (physic units) are included
in the denominator rather than physical unit of health effect. Individual preferences for
alternative health states can be collected from surveys of patients, the general population,
or health care providers; however, patients who are more familiar with the pain and
limitations of a disease may weigh alternative health states differently than other population
groups 2
' Adapted from Shepard, D.S. and Thompson, M., First Principles of Cost-effectiveness Analysis in Health,1
Public He>.7th Reports. Volume 94, Number 6, November-December, 1979.
2 Torxntce, G.W., 'Utility Approach to Measuring Health-Related Quality of Life," Joumal of Ch
Diseases, V'olume 40, Number 6, pp.593-600, 1987.



- 41 -
Finally, cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is a method in which both the costs and benefits
are expressed in monetary terms. For instance, the cost of an intervention is compared to
the economic value of a person's life, determined either by what that person is willing to
pay to extend life or avoid the disability, or by that individual's human capital measured as
the value of future earnings (see Box 1.1).
BOX 1.1: APPROACHES TO VALUING LIVES SAVED IN
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
In cost-benefit analysis (CBA), both the costs and benefits of health programs
are evaluated using a single monetary measure, which overcomes problems of
comparing programs with different types of health outcomes. Costs and benefits are
expressed either as a ratio, or as a net difference in the gains and losses measured in
monetary or financial terms associated with a health program. The impact of a
program can be measured using the human capital approach. Saving the life of a
working individual results in a health benefit equal to the present value of discounted
future expected earnings. However, this approach may undervalue the lives of
individuals not employed in the formal sector, such as women, children, and older
adults, and understate the value of health programs because psychological benefits for
the patient and family are omitted. 1
Health benefits also can be measured by the amount individuals would be
willing to pay to avoid death or disability. One limitation of the willing to pay to
avoid death or disability. One limitation of the willingness-to-pay approach (WTP)
is that individuals evaluate health benefits in terms of their personal gains rather than
the benefits to society as a whole. Another problem  is that responses to WTP
questions are dependent upon the resources available to the individual: a wealthy
person is willing to spend more to avert death than a poor individual. Thus, the
evaluation method may implicitly weight preferences of wealthier individuals more
than others. For these reasons, cost-effectiveness analysis is utilized more often than
CBA for evaluating health interventions.
1. Adapted from Over, M., Economics for Health Sector Analysis: Concepts and
_s, Economic Development Institute, The World Bank, Washington, D.C. 1991.
See also Weinstein and Fineberg, 1980.
1.1.  Role of Cost-effectiveness Analysis in Resource Allocation for Health.
CEA is a tool for identifying which health interventions achieve the greatest level of
health !mpact per unit of investment, and the results can be used to evaluate on-going
health interventions or to plan for future health programs. In addition, the findings of
CEA car. assist program managers to identify ways to improve efficiency and elfectiveness
of servlit" delivery.



- 42 -
While the use of CEA for program management is important, the primary emphasis
of the methodology is on planning and evaluating health interventions so that resources can
be allocated in a more cost-effective manner at national or regional level. For example,
cost-effectiveness analysis can be used to determine whether implementation of a new
program or health initiative appears feasible in terms of the cost per unit of health
outcome. If initial estimates indicate the program will be too resource intensive,
modifications can be made in program design prior to implementation to improve the cost-
effectiveness of the intervention. The type of delivery strategy, ranging from on-demand
services, campaigns and acceleration strategies, as well as mobile or targeted approaches
have different implications for resource use and cost-effectiveness of services. One of the
most important uses of cost-effectiveness analysis is to evaluate alternative delivery
strategies, such as whether mobile teams are most cost-effective than campaigns in treating
children with Vitamin A deficiency. Moreover, CEA can be used to deternine whether
health interventions provided through public facilities are more or less cost-effective than
their counterparts delivered through the private health care system. This type of analysis
can be used to ascertain which health interventions should be financed and/or delivered by
the public sector.
CEA can also inform decision makers whether adding new components to existing
interventions represents a cost-effective choice. Examples includes combining hepatitis B
immunization in the current EPI vaccine schedule or providing a greater range of health
service through school-based programs. CEA can help demonstrate if extra health benefits
of combined or clustered interventions are worth the additional cost. Moreover, this
approach can be used to determine whether to expand an intervention into another
geographic area or target population. For example, certain population groups may be at
greater risk disease, such a lower income families or certain occupational groups. One
study in Indonesia finds that, while not as cost-effective as routine services, tetanus
immunization campaigns are justified because they reach less educated mothers whose
children were more at risk for disease.3
Further the results of the CEA can be shared with the public so that consumers
may get more value for their own investment in health services. These figures can provide
consumers with needed information in order to make the most efficient choices regarding
the type of health care provider to treatment.
Finally, in some developing countries, donor funding for health services represents
a large proportion of total government health expenditures. Evaluation of the cost-
effectiveness of alternative health programs, as well as provide govemments with
quantitative information for selecting and choosing among donor projects.
' Berman, P., Quinley, J., Yusuf, B., Anwar, S., Mustani, 0. , Azof, A. , and Iskandar, 'Matemal Tetanus
Immunization on Aceh Province, Sumatra: The Cost-effectiveness of Alternative Strategies,' Social Science and
Medicine, Volume 33, Number 2, pp. 185-192, 1991.



- 43 -
Annex D
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Detailed Project Cost Summary
Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign    % of Total
US$ million-         Exchange    Base Costs
I.  Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities
1     Analysis and Selection of
Alternatives                        1.3       0.6    1.9        31.5          7.9
2      Irnplementation of Pilot Programs  0.8        1.6    2.4        66.6          9.9
Subtotal                                  2.1        2.2    4.3        51.0         17.8
IX.  Institutional Development
1     Review of Basic Regulatory
Framework for Service Delegation    1.0       0.7    1.7        41.1          7.1
2     Regulatory and Financial Systems    0.4        0.3    0.7        42.8          2.9
3     Sectoral Management Information
Systems                             2.9       7.7   10.6        72.6         44.0
4     Human Resource Development of
Sector Professionals               0.3         1.4    1.7       82.3          7.0
Subtotal                                  4.6       10.1   14.7        68.7         61.0
m.    Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities
I     Analysis and Conceptual
Development of Methodologies        1.4       0.9    2.3        39.1          9.6
2     Cost-Effective Analysis             0.9        0.1    1.0        10.0          4.0
3     Strengthening of Public Health
Programs                           0.9         1.0    1.9       53.0          7.9
Subtotal                                  3.2        2.0    5.2        38.0         21.5
Total Base Costs                            |    9.9       14.3   24.2        59.0        100.0
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                    0.5        1.2    1.7        70.5          7.1
Price Contingencies                       0.5        1.6    2.1        76.1          8.7
Total Contingencies                               1.0        2.8    3.8       73.6          15.8
Totol Project Cost                               10.9      17.1   28.0        61.0        115.8



Annex D
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Financing Plan by Year
World Bank          Government              IBRD               Total
Project    Fiscal                US$                  US$                 US$
Semester   SYar   Semester    million    Percent    million   Percent   million   Percent
Year
1        1995   Second         0.8        3         1.7        6        2.5       9
2        1996   First          0.8        3         0.8        3        1.6       6
3        1996   Second         1.3        5         1.3        5        2.6      10
4        1997   First          1.3        5         1.8        6        3.1      11
5        1997   Second         1.7        6         1.7        6        3.4      12
6        1998   First          1.7        6         1.7        6        3.4      12
7        1998   Second         1.2        4         1.8        7        3.0      11
8        1999   First          1.2        4         1.8        7        3.0      11
9        1999   Second         1.2        4         1.5        5        2.7       9
10       2000   First           1.2        4         1.5        5       2.7       9
TOTAL                 12.4       44    [  15.6        56       28.0      100



Annex E
PRESIDENTIAL DECREE
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
Ministry of Public Health
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
Ref. No: S/486
Montevideo, December 8, 1993
HAVING SEEN:   The Technical and Financial Assistance Agreement of October 22,
1992 and Loan Agreement PPF 209-0/UR of April 1, 1993 concluded between the
Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) for the purposes of financing the preparation of the
Health Sector Development Project;
CONSEQUENTLY: For compliance of the objectives set forth in those Agreements, it was
agreed to designate the Ministry of Public Health as the executing agency;
WHEREAS:           (i) the scope and operational complexity involved in the attainmnent
of the above-mentioned objectives make it necessary to establish a Coordinating Unit that
reports directly to the highest echelon of the Ministry of Public Health; and
(ii) it is deemed necessary to take steps to establish and start up the
operations of the Coordinating Unit for the Health Sector Development Project.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC NOW THEREFORE
DECREES AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1.    The Coordinating Unit for the Health Sector Development Project shall report
to the M4inistry of Public Health, and with regard to any matters related to the performance
of its tasks* may communicate directly with any department, executing unit or other
admii!istrative subdivision of that Ministry.
Artic'e 2.    The members of the Coordinating Unit and those working with them shall be
appoiited by substantiated resolution by the Ministry of Public Health, upon proposal by the
Generai Project Coordinator.
Article 3.    The Coordinating Unit shall:
(a)   carry out all necessary technical tasks to achieve the objectives stated in the
Agreements referred to in the preamble hereto;
(b)   carry out all administrative and financial actions necessary to that end;



-46 -
(c)    advise and assist the Ministry of Public Health as necessary in relation to the
objectives that determined its establishment;
(d)    coordinate its activities with all departments, executing units and other
administrative subdivisions of the Ministry of Public Health as necessary, and
which shall provide it with all information required for achieving the project's
objectives;
(e)    monitor and audit project activities;
(f)    keep the Ministry of Public Health regularly informed of all its activities; and
(g)    carry out any other such task as may be assigned to it.
Article 4.    When authorized by the Ministry of Public Health, the Coordinating Unit is
hereby empowered to enter into cooperation and technical assistance agreements with
national institutions and international agencies with representation in the country, solely for
the purposes of enhancing the achievement of its objectives and providing support to the
Ministry of Public Health.
Article 5.    The Ministry of Public Health shall take the necessarv measures for the
immediate establishment and startup of operations of the Coordinating Unit for the Health
Sector Development Project.
Artic'e 6.    Within the 90 days following the constitution of the Coordinacing Unit, it shall
submAt its bylaws and organizational and operations manual to the Ministry of Public Health
for review.
Articie 7.    For publication, etc.
Is/ Lacalle Herrera
Is! [illegible]
Is! [illegible]



- 47 -
Annex E
URUGUAY HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZAIIONAL STRUCTURE
PROJTECT IMLEMENTATION UN1T (MiS)l
CONSULTATIVE
COMMITTEE
GENERAL
COORDINATION
Coordination        Corinto            Coordnatio
of First           of Second           of Third
Component          Component           Component
(Transfer)        (Institution        (Adjustment of
Development)       Health Service
Model)
Administrative
Coordination
Fyst   S        <I
Informatio      [ t i 1             Finance and
Systems           [               Accounting



Annex F
../..   ./~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
z0 
M, 
Jo -
10



Annex 
L -,
t- 
0
C,,
0                                               "7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
0o
Ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,
z 
I  d                                                                   4>LI I     



-50 -
Annex F
URUGUAY HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Implementation Program
Expected Starting    Expected
Project Activity                                    Date (not later     Completion Date
than)               (not later than)
A.      Establish and analyze the different alternatives to contract the provision of
health services of MSP with eligible entities, including, inter alia, the design of:   7 months after the
(a) an operational framework for each alternative; and (b) the mechanism for  effective date
the payment of health services to be provided to the beneficiaries by the eligible
entities as a result of the contracting of MSP's provision of health services
B.      Carry out the Pilot Program:
18 months after the
*       selection of eligible departments                                    effective date
C.      Carry out the Pilot Program:
22 months after the
*       selection of eligible entities                                       effective date
D.      Carry out the Pilot Program:
18 months after the
*       drafting of legal documents for each contracting alternative         effective date
E.      Carry out the Pilot Program:
22 months after the
*       contracting the provision of MSP health services with eligible entities  effective date
F.      Carry out the Pilot Program:
25 months after the
*       carry out the provision of MSP health services with eligible entities  effective date
G.      Design the institutional reorganization of the public health sector in order to
strengthen the MSP's role to regulate and finance the provision of health    16 months after the
services                                                                     effective date
H.      Implement the institutional reorganization of the health sector in order to
strengthen the MSP's role to regulate and finance the provision of health    25 months after the
services                                                                     effective date
r.      Design and a health sector management information system                      I month after the    12 months after
effective date      the effective date
J.      Implement the health sector management information system                     25 months after the
effective date
K.      Finalize national global burden of disease and cost-effectiveness analyses            _           48 months after
the effective date
L.      Carry out the design of quality assessment and health provider accreditation          _           24 months after
systems                                                                                           the effective date
M.      Implement the quality assessment and accreditation systems nationwide                             51 months after
the effective date



URUGUAY'
IIEALTII SECTOR DEVELOPM ENT P'ROJECT
ltiplenilellialion Schediule
(US$ iiiillion eqtiivalen()
Paruject Eletiuciin                        Piel'liojecI Project Years                                              Total
1.0        2.0         3.0         4.0        5.0      piayment              Remarks
Project Timing
Sign/Effect/Close
Goods
Computer I lardware and Soflivare                      0.1         3.1         3.2         3.2        2.7        12.3       ICB/Shopping
Velhicles                                              0.2          -           -           -          -          0.2       LIB
Office Equipment and Furniture                         0.0          -          0.0          -          -          0.0       Not Bank-financed.
Medical Equipment and Supplies                         0.3         0.4         1.7         0.2        0.7         3.3       Not Bank-financed.
Subtotal Goods                                           0.6         3.5        4.9         3.4        3.4         15.8
Consulting Senriccs
National Consultants                                   0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7        0.7         3.4                                          LAt
International Consuiltanits                            0.2         0.1         0.1         0.0        0.1         0.5
Consulting Finns                                       0.4         0.8         0.2         0.8        0.3         2.5
Subtotal Consulting Services                             1.3         1.6         0.9        1.5        1.1         6.5
Training (Pcr Diem, Travel and Tuition)
Seminar and Workshop                                   0.1         0.1         0.2         0.1        0.2         0.6
Study Tour                                             0.3         0.2         0.2         0.2        0.2         1.1
Scholarsiip for Study Abroad                           0.2         0.4         0.4         0.4        0.2         1.6
Scholarship for Domestic Study                          -          0.1         0.1         0.1        0.1         0.4
Subtotal TraIning                                        0.5         0.7         0.9        0.8        0.8         3.7
Administrative Expenses                                  0.2         0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2         1.1
PPF Refinancing                                          0.9         -           -           -          -          0.9
TOTAL  1/                                                3.6         6.1        6.9         6.0        5.5         28.0
(Bank-rinanced)                                 (2.1)      (3.5)       (3.3)       (3.6)      (3.0)       (15.6)
I/ Totals include contingencies.
Note: Totals nmy not sum exactly due to rotmnding.



- 52 -
Annex G
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Disbursement Forecast
DISBURSEMENT (USS million)   Cumulative
IBRD FLscal Year                                as Percent   Project
and Semester      Semester      Cumulative      of Total    Semester
FY95
2nd (Jan.-Jun.'95)     1.7           1.7           11          1
FY96
1st (Jul.-Dec.'95)   0.8            2.5           16          2
2nd (Jan.-Jun.'96)    1.3            3.8           24          3
FY97
1st (Jul.-Dec.'96)   1.8            5.6           36          4
2nd (Jan.-Jun.'97)     1.7           7.3           47          5
FY98
1st (Jul.-Dec.'97)   1.7            9.0           58          6
2nd (Jan.-Jun.'98)     1.8          10.8           69          7
FY99
1st (Jul.-Dec.'98l   1.8           12.6           81          8
2nd (Jan.-Jun.'99)    1.5           14.1           90          9
PYOO
1st (Jul.-Dec.'99)   1.5           15.6          100.0        10
Closing Date: June 30, 2000



- 53 -
Annex G
URUGUAY
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Disbursement Allocations
Category                       Amount              Foreign/Loca Expenditures
(U$million equivalent)  FrinLclEpniue
1. Goods
(a) Hardware and Software             8.6              100% of foreign
Application                                          expenditures
(b) Vehicles                          0.2              100% of foreign
expenditures
2. Consultants' Services and                 4.8              50% of local expenditures
Training                                                      and 50% of foreign
expenditures
3. PPF Refinancing                           0.9
4. Unallocated                                1.1
TOTAL                                        15.6



- 54 -
Annex H
URUGUAY
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies in the Sector
A. 1    "Health Status - Conditions and Indicators." Ministry of Public Health.
Montevideo, Uruguay. May 1992
A.2   "Public Investment Plan at Medium-Term." Planning and Budget Office of the
Presidency of Uruguay. Montevideo, Uruguay. May 1991.
A.3   Programa de Inversi6n Social, Presidencia de la RepuTblica, Oficina de
Planeamiento y Presupuesto/BID. Uruguay, 1994.
B. Selected Documents and Reports Relating to the Project
B. 1   Andlisis del Sector Salud. Documento Preliminar de Estrategias. Ministry of
Public Health, Montevideo, Uruguay. September 1993.
B.2    Areas de Gasto y Financiamiento. FISS, Uruguay, February 1994.
B.3    Estudio de Seis Departamentos, Hip6tesis de Trabajo. Ministry of Public
Health, Montevideo, Uruguay. February 1994
B.4    Andlisis Econ6mico - Financiamiento Preliminar de los Objetivos, Actividades
y Resultados del Proyecto. Lic. Ec. Ricardo Merhoff, FISS, Montevideo
Uruguay. February 1994.
B.5    Manual Administrativo. Ministry of Public Health, Montevideo, Uruguay.
April 1994.
B.6    Analisis de Viabilidad del Proyecto FISS. Ministry of Public Health,
Montevideo, Uruguay. April 1994.
B.7    Estudio de Auditorfa Financiero-Contable del Proyecto de Fortalecimiento
Institucional del Sector Salud. Ministry of Public Health/IBRD. July 1994.
B. 8    Componentes del Proyecto - Docwnento Preliminar. Primera a Sexta Versi6n,
FISS, Montevideo, Uruguay. 1993-1994.



- 55 -
C. Selected Working Papers
C. 1    Back-to-Office Report. Health Sector Discussion. Jose Andreu. World Bank.
Washington D.C. November 1990.
C.2    "Private Health Sector Financing Study." Jose Andreu. World Bank.
Washington D.C. January 1991.
C.3    Back-to-Office Report. "Identification Mission." Jose Andreu. World Bank.
Washington D.C. August 1991.
C.4    Uruguay - 'Health Sector Strategy Note." Jose Andreu. World Bank.
Washington D.C. September 1991.
C.5    Back-to-Office Report. "Health Project Identification Discussions." Jos6
Andreu. World Bank.
C. 6    Back-to-Office Report. "Identification Mission." Jose Andreu and Xavier
Coll. World Bank. November 1992.
C.7    Demographic and Epidemiological Profile and Basic Services in Uruguay.
Femando Vio, World Bank. Montevideo, Uruguay. July 1993.
C. 8    "Informe del Componente de Gesti6n Hospitalaria." Elvira Guilera. Buenos
Aires, Argentina. July 1993.
C.9    Back-to-Office Report - First Preparation Mission. Xavier Coll, World Bank.
Washington D.C. August 1993.
C. 10   Back-to-Office Report - Second Preparation Mission. Washington D.C.
October 1993.
C. 11   Back-to-Office Report - Third Preparation Mission. Xavier Coll, World Bank.
February 1994.
C. 12   Back-to-Office Report - Fourth Preparation Mission - Burden of Disease and
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Components. Peter Cowley, World Bank. June
1994.
C. 13   Back-to-Office Report - Pre-appraisal Mission. Xavier Coll, World Bank.
June 1994
C. 14   "Selecting an Essential Package of Health Services Using Cost-Effectiveness
Analysis: A Manual for Setting Priorities in Developing Countries", Logan
Brenzel, Jose Bobadilla, Julia Walsh, July 1993.
C. 15   Back-to-Office Report - Appraisal Mission. Xavier Coll, World Bank.
October 1994.






t
IBRD 26117
gBelrUn6,f                                                                  5
gas ~ Ar                                                URUGUAY
t \; A R T I G A S                              X                                      C-RiverrJ MAIN ROADS
(--Riftro   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -RIVERS
0    TOWNS
9  . irznsfituci6n _ 9 ~ 4                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
BRIDGES
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sal to       S A L T O 0:                   x |  R I V E R A                                   AIRPORTS
PORTS
Q:  9 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ ~~' Trcuremnb6/^                         Vih0ec+1\-     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
I   I   I   I   I   I   I  I       MONTEVIDEO              AIIOnIIdO         MoldLANTIC NERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I %tn~~~~SROnd                                  T   C U A   E  M BX!*hXX 
, S2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  R A                  R E  Nt RE   @
0       20   40 30   60          50 Kilojasteri    <{ P ~ Ee I  T
I                   O T V D U R A Z N O RrXa  E~ I   54-   CJ C   EA          U N  1994



