Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24995
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38550; SCL-3855A; SCPD-3855S; PPFB-P2090; PPFB-P2091)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 19, 2002
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit (LCSHiH)
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at loan closing)
Currency Unit = UR$
UR$1 = US$ 0.04
US$ 1 = UR$27.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS:          Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ASSE:          Administraci6n de Servicios de Salud del Estado
(Administration for State Health Services)
21RF:          B3anco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
(International Bank for Reconstruction and Development)
CAS:           Country Assistance Strategy
DIGESA:        Direcci6n General de Salud
(Directorate General of Health)
FISS:          Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Institucional del Sector Salud
(Institutional Strengthening of the Health Sector Project)
F-14R:         Fondo Nacional de Recursos
(National Resource Fund)
IAMC's         Institutos de Asistencia Medica Colectiva
(Collective Medical Assistance Institutes)
ICR:           Implementation Completion Report
ICB:           International Competitive Bidding
MoF:           Ministry of Finance
MYS:           Management Information System
MSP:           Ministerio de Salud Publica
(Ministry of Public Health)
OPP:           Oficina de Planeaci6n y Presupuesto
(Budget and Planning Office)
PCU:           Project Coordination Unit
PPF:           Project Preparation Facility
RUCAF:         Registro Pnico de Cobertura Asistencial Formal
(Health Insurance Identification Database)
SEVE:          Sistema de Vigilancia Epidemiol6gica
(Epidemiological Surveillance System)
SY '3:         Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial
(General Sector Infornation System)
SOE:           Statement of Expenditures
STD:           Sexually Transnutted Disease
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:    Evangeline Javier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Juan Pablo Uribe



URUGUAY
UY-HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             12
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                16
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             27
Annex 8. Government Contribution                                                  28






Project ID: P008161                                      Project Name: UY-HEALTH SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Juan Pablo Uribe                            TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: UY-HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                  LIC/TE Number: CPL-38550;
SCL-3855A;
SCPD-3855S;
PPFB-P2090;
PPFB-P2091
Country/Department: URUGUAY                                             Region: Latin America and
Canbbean Region
Sector/subsector: Central government adniinistration (50%); Health
(50%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/15/1992                             Effective: 07/27/1995         07/27/1995
Appraisal:  09/16/1994                               MTR: 08/23/1999            08/23/1999
Approval:  03/21/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000         06/28/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Axel van Trotsenburg                      Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Evangeline Javier                         Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Juan Pablo Uribe                          Xavier E. Coll
ICR Primary Author:  Luis 0. Perez; Sati Achath; Juan
Pablo Uribe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of lDeveRopnnent (ectdve aid Destigm, amd of Qua11ty at Enity
3.1 Original Objective:
The project addressed the Government of Uruguay's policy goal of rationalizing health sector
spending. Given the complexity inherent in health sector reforms and existing institutional
constraints, the project focused on a limited set of key and attainable objectives to lay the
foundation for incremental and sustainable improvements. Its two objectives were to:
(a)   improve the efficiency and quality of the health services provided by the Ministry of Public
Health ("Ministerio de Salud Puiblica", MSP) to the poor and uninsured, through the contracting
of MSP's provision of health services with eligible entities [Eligible entities - a means for the
objective - initially referred to private sector organizations and then shifted to public hospitals
with a reformed role]; and
(b)   foster the institutional development of the public health sector through: (i) improvement of
the regulatory framework and the information base for decision-making; (ii) selective
development of human resources; and (iii) rationalization of epidemiological health sector
priorities.
This was the Bank's first loan to the health sector in Uruguay, and it was also the first of its type
in Uruguay's health sector, thus representing an important opportunity as well as a challenge. The
objectives of the project were clear and properly aligned with the government's development plan
for the health sector and responsive to its needs. The project design was built on the best practice
of separating the regulatory, financing and provision roles in the health sector, while also fostering
institutional strengthening. However, it may have been over-optimistic to expect that the new
government that was to take office soon after the negotiation of the loan would be willing to
contract the provision of health services from the private sector.
The project was consistent with the Bank's Uruguay Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
discussed by the Board on January 25, 1994, that aimed to provide selective support to the
government in: (a) the private sector's adjustment to competition in an increasingly open
economy; (b) improvements in human capital formation by enhancing the efficiency of public
sector activities in health and education; and (c) modest efforts at public sector reform through
ongoing and projected technical assistance. By increasing the role of private sector in the delivery
of services and imnproving the regulatory framework, the project aimed to support the private
sector's adjustment to competition. Through its objective to increase the efficiency and quality of
health services, it would improve human capital formation. Thirdly, the project was expected to
have a positive effect on health sector reform by gradually reducing the role of the public sector in
the direct delivery of services, strengthening its stewardship capacity and possibly reducing the
size of the MSP. In these respects, the project also complemented the objectives of other
Bank-financed projects.
The project aimned to complement the Bank's assistance to Uruguay, that had focused on efforts
to improve macroeconomic stability through structural adjustment loans and debt service
reduction loans. Concurrently with project preparation, the Bank had also carried out a Health
Sector Strategy Report, which supported the objectives of the project and underscored the need
-2-



to strengthen the regulatory framework and transfer the MSP's service delivery responsibilities to
the IAMCs ("Institutos de Asistencia Medica Colectiva", non-profit private medical cooperatives
that act as health insurers and service providers for the employees in the formal economy).
The project was to produce several benefits, including: (i) helping the Government of Uruguay
(GOU) develop a foundation to rationalize health sector spending; (ii) defining operational
alternatives to reduce the MSP's role (through the "Administraci6n de Servicios de Salud del
Estado"(ASSE)) in the direct provision of services and testing these alternatives on a pilot basis;
(iii) enhancing the government's ability to better link priorities and quality to financing by means
of strengthening its monitoring and regulatory capacity; (iv) improving management information
systems, which would enhance the information input for decision-making; (v) improving the
human resource base in the sector through scholarships in critically deficient areas; and (vi)
building mechanisms for setting priorities (i.e., global burden of disease and cost-effectiveness),
which would help establish a sounder, more rational basis for health interventions.
The project also recognized and took into account the following two risk factors which could
affect project implementation, viz:
A possible lack of future government support to reforms in the health sector. In the past,
serious efforts to advance reform in Uruguay had been thwarted by lack of government
and public support. This risk was aimed to be minimized by: (i) the attention given during
preparatiori to ensure the acceptance and support of key stakeholders in the health sector;
and (ii) a project design that was not overly ambitious, and permitted gradual building of
the capacity and the knowledge base for reforms.
*     Project implementation demands would outstrip the MSP's managerial capacity. This risk
was to be mitigated by: (i) a full-time project unit in the MSP that had successfully
managed project preparation and was familiar with the Bank Guidelines after
administering two advances from the PPF; (ii) a conservative implementation timetable;
and (iii) annual and mid-term project reviews to assess implementation progress and adjust
the pace and scope of implementation as needed.
The project acknowledged lessons learned from previous Bank-assisted projects in Uruguay and
other countries, which indicated that successful implementation was closely associated with: (a)
linking the definition of project objectives and scope to a clear policy framework; (b) obtaining
strong and pervasive government commitment to project objectives; (c) designing simple projects
with focused and straightforward objectives; and (d) linking '"software" activities (studies,
institutional strengthening, and training) to investment components (equipment and facilities) to
increase the likelihood that reform-related activities would be implemented. Additionally, an
overall "gradual" reform approach underlined the operation. In this context, it is also worth
mentioning that, by the tirne of the project's restructuring in November 1998, the Bank already
had an ongoing project in neighboring Argentina exploring public hospital autonomy (Argentina:
Health Insurance Technical Assistance Project, Loan SCPD-4004S; CPL-40040; SCL-4004A).
Lessons learned from that project were brought to the FISS project, by supporting visits from the
Argentina Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staff to Uruguay.
- 3-



However, project implementation did turn out to be very demanding for the Borrower, especially
regarding efforts to increase the autonomy of public hospitals. This was a radical concept for
Uruguay and not well accepted by actors in the public and private health sectors, who had strong
representation in Congress (where a significant number of members were physicians).
Furthermore, the technical capacity of the new personnel in the PCU (appointed by the
administration that took office in March 1995) was weak and needed close guidance from the
Bank on technical and project management matters. Changes at the Executive branch of
government made implementation more demanding.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As mentioned in Sec. 3.4, even though the project was restructured in 1998, project objectives
remained the same throughout the implementation period.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following three components: (i) delegation of MSP's service delivery
responsibility, (ii) institutional development, and (iii) establishment of health sector disease
priorities. The components were reasonably related to achieving the project's objectives. The
MSP (and, within it, ASSE) had sufficient administrative and financial capacity for successful
implementation. It was, however, weak in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) functions and in
managing related information systems. Recognizing this weakness, the project supported on
several occasions efforts to build appropriate capacity for M&E and information systems
necessary for meeting the project objectives.
Component I: Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities (US$4.3 million: 17.8% of
the project)
The activities under this component consisted of: (a) carrying out a review of national and
international experiences on the decentralization and delegation of health services; (b) establishing
and analyzing different alternatives for contracting the provision of MSP health services with
eligible entities, including the design of: (i) an operational framework for each altemative and (ii)
payment mechanisms for services to be provided by eligible entities; and (c) carrying out a pilot
program in four of the country's nineteen departments. This pilot program activity was core to
the component and involved: (i) selecting eligible departments and entities to which the provision
of services was to be delegated; (ii) drafting the legal contractual agreements; (iii) contracting
(delegation agreements) the provision of health services with eligible entities in the pilot
departments; (iv) strengthening the management and service provision of eligible entities through
technical assistance, training and the provision of medical equipment; and (v) designing and
implementing a monitoring and evaluation system to assess the progress and impact of the
delegation of service provision.
Component II: Institutional Development (US$14.7 million: 61.0% of the project)
Activities covered by this component included:
Reviewing and improving the sector's regulatory framework. To facilitate the reform process, a
-4 -



comprehensive review of the health sector regulatory framework was done seeking to facilitate:
(a) the contracting of MSP's health services provision with eligible entities under the pilot
program; and (b) the institutional reorganization of the health sector per se.
Designing and implementing the institutional reorganization of the MSP. The project supported
activities to strengthen the regulatory and financing capacity in the MSP, with an emphasis on: (a)
establishing priority interventions; (b) linking sector priorities to the allocation of funds to
providers; and (c) linking quality standards and financing through a national quality evaluation and
accreditation system. Activities included defining: (a) the contents of the regulatory and financing
functions of the MSP; and (b) the actions required to reinforce these two functions, including the
design of new regulatory and/or financing systems, as needed. These activities were to be carried
out during the first two years of implementation.
Designing and implementing the sector's management information systems (MIS). These
activities were to take place in three areas: (a) service delivery institutions, particularly in the four
pilot areas where new contractual arrangements for service provision would occur; (b) the central
level of the MSP in two critical functions: (i) monitoring and performance evaluation of health
care delivery in the public and private sectors; and (ii) administrative management (i.e.,
management of human resources, accounting, and procurement); and (c) national vital statistics.
Strengthening the technical and management capacity of health professionals. The project
supported improvements in the sector's human resource through national and international
scholarships in three areas related with the policy agenda: (a) public health/epidemiology; (b)
hospital management; and (c) health economics.
Component III: Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities (US$5.2 million: 21.5% of the
project)
This component supported the analysis of burden of disease and cost-effectiveness studies to
serve as part of the foundation for rationalizing public spending on health. In addition, the
component supported the design of service quality standards for the eventual implementation of a
health services accreditation system to be put in place as part of Component II. The component
included the following activities: (a) a review of international experiences in disease
priority-setting and in the establishment of cost-effective health interventions, analyzing
approaches most appropriate for Uruguay; (b) a review and redefinition of the current standards
for the provision of health services at the different levels of the system (health services delivery
model); (c) a nationwide disease priority-setting analysis; (d) strengthening of selected priority
programs (e.g., infant and child care, reproductive health, cardiovascular diseases,
HIV/AIDS/STDs); (e) an assessment of the impact of rationalizing sector disease priorities; (f)
designing nationwide quality assessment and accreditation standards and systems; and (g) an
evaluation of the implementation of quality evaluation and accreditation systems.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured in November 1998, keeping the original project objectives but
modifying the implementation strategy for Component 1. Instead of seeking contracting out
service provision with private institutions, the project shifted to fostering public hospital
- 5 -



decentralization and promoting performance agreements with the central levels of ASSE
(improved performance under a new scenario of greater autonomy and clearer accountability).
The loan agreement was accordingly amended to modify clauses referring to eligible entities and
the contracting of health services to these entities. Under the revised terms, the Borrower was
permitted to carry out a Pilot Hospital Decentralization Program consisting of, inter alia,
transferring administrative, managerial, and financial responsibilities to the Director of each of the
four selected pilot public hospitals, as provided in the corresponding Performance Agreement.
The purpose of the amended component remained unchanged--to improve the efficiency and
quality of the health services provided by MSP to the poor and uninsured.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), and so there is
no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at
entry to be satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were consistent with the
CAS and the govenmment priorities and met the critical needs of Uruguay's health sector. At the
time of project preparation, the implementing agency had the required administrative, financial,
and technical capacity. As a result, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet
the project's objectives. In addition, during project preparation, benefits, major risk factors, and
lessons learned were considered and incorporated into the project design.
The project was well designed, and well-aligned with the priorities of the govermnent at the timne
of project preparation. The project risks were also moderate and manageable. However, with the
change of government in March 1995, it became apparent that the project objectives and design
were no longer fully synchronized with the policies of the new government. The changes in
government that followed affected the emphasis and commitment in project implementation, and
demanded constant intervention from the Bank in reassuring proper policy alignment with the
incoming administrations. To this extent, on several occasions, the Bank asked the national
government for letters of policy development ratifying the relevance of and commitment to
project objectives. The lack of specific communication strategies to disseminate and better
explain the project's objectives and actions to various stakeholders in the health sector may have
contributed to resistance to change, especially among the central management of ASSE.
4. AcThievement of ¢ )eotive audi Gutjputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
atiJsfaceory. A detailed description of the major outcomes and achievements of the project
follows:
-6 -



Pilot Hospital Decentralization Program
The project was instrumental in transferring greater autonomy to the public hospitals in an
environment traditionally resistant even to minor reform. With the objective of achieving
better performance in the health sector, performance agreements were first signed in 1998
with the four pilot public hospitals (Las Piedras, Maldonado, Salto, and Tacuaremb6) and,
subsequently, with increasing groups of public hospitals reaching, by 2002, another 28 public
hospitals nationwide (totaling 32 public hospitals at project closure, including all the
departnental ones). Later on, the use of performance agreements as an ASSE resource
allocation instrument was made mandatory in the Nation's five-year Budget Law, which was
approved in 2001, guaranteeing its sustainability beyond project closure. This development
clearly exceeded initial expectations regarding the breadth of this reform. But the reforms
were not as in-depth as originally designed. However, placed in perspective, these were the
first explicit performance agreements ever signed in the country between the national level -
ASSE - and the managerial teams in public hospitals, and, at project closure, covered more
than 85% of the total budget of ASSE.
The original performance agreements for the four pilot hospitals were based on institutional
baseline studies and included adjusted target figures for each case in the areas of budget,
service provision and quality. They also benefited from close technical assistance in hospital
management provided over a one-year period by international consulting firms, as well as
with investments in new hospital equipment prioritizing emergency and infant and maternal
services.
The development and implementation of performance agreements within an overall (gradual)
decentralization strategy and combined with technical assistance on hospital management had
a positive impact on public hospitals by:
(a)   facilitating a change in the organizational culture of Uruguay's public provider
network, placing more emphasis on institutional responsibility and accountability, and a
greater degree of autonomy and decentralization of ASSE's providers. For example, hospital
directors gained new functions and responsibilities for selecting personnel and transferring
funds between expenditure items with due observance of the credit ceiling authorized by the
central level;
(b)   introducing significant organizational and managerial changes in structure and
processes. For example, public hospitals in Uruguay now define annual strategic plans that
are negotiated with ASSE's central management and develop internal performance
agreements; have opened new consumer service areas (including grievance offices and
scheduled appointments) and carry out consumer satisfaction surveys; created functional
quality and infection committees and improved clinical management (for example, medical
protocols are being used); have introduced professional accounting practices (and
professional staff to do so); and are beginning to implement computerized procedures for
proper beneficiary identification. An evaluation of the 10 public hospitals with performance
agreements during 2001 showed that these achieved over 80% of the proposed objectives for
- 7 -



institutional strengthening (compared to the year 2000 baseline where only 31% of the
selected targets were fulfilled); and
(c)   improving service delivery outputs and overall efficiency. For example, compared
with the year 2000 baseline, the ten hospitals with 2001 performance agreements showed
savings in their annual budgets adding to roughly US $4,000,000, equivalent to 8.5% of their
total expenditures (expenditures in pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies, including
oxygen, were reduced by roughly 20%). Simnultaneously, these hospitals increased their
service delivery in response to an increasing demand: ambulatory visits went up by 60% in
the primary care centers (hospital dependent) and by 5% in the own hospitals' out-patient
clinics ; the total number of surgeries increased by 10%, with a significant rise in the number
of programmed surgeries (43%); and the average length of stay went down by 20% while
total hospitals discharges increased by 10%, among others. As a result of the above, ASSE's
average cost per consumer went down by 19% in these hospitals.
Despite the above-mentioned progress, significant in the Uruguayan context, at project
closure none of the ASSE public hospitals were fiunctioning as fully autonomous units nor
had the degree of decentralization originally envisioned by the project. Further progress in
negotiating the three core aspects of hospital autonomy - management of human resources,
contracting out surplus capacity and acquiring residual claimant status - is still needed.
Moreover, the monitoring and evaluation system for hospital performance continues to be
weak, impeding more in-depth impact analysis of the pilot program (for example, a more
thorough evaluation that includes control hospitals and cost-benefit analysis is yet pending for
2002). Discrepancies between the project's efforts and ASSE central administration
contributed to this failure. In the last months of project implementation, these discrepancies
seem to have been resolved and ASSE was committed to further pursuing the performance
evaluation, using baseline indicators and a monitoring control panel supported by the project.
Institutional Strengthening
Restructuring of MSP. A thorough diagnosis of the organization structure, functions and
processes of the Ministry was carried out in order to improve its capacity and strengthen its
stewardship role in the sector. As a result of this study, an integrated proposal for
restructuring and redesigning the functions, processes, and organizational structure of the
MSP was prepared, including an action plan to guide implementation. This proposal was
then approved by the national government and Congress, and is beginning to be imnplemented.
The new MSP structure provides better-defined roles and finctions in basic public health
responsibilities (e.g. priority programs and epidemiological surveillance), health services
(quality assurance), and regulation of health sector-related products (pharmaceuticals,
medical technology/devices, and food safety).
Restructuring ofASSE. Based on a detailed diagnosis of the situation of ASSE, the project
developed a proposal for its organizational restructuring and the redesign of critical
processes, including strategic lines and an action plan. Some of the most important features
included in the proposed redesign were: (i) separation of the negotiation/purchasing functions
- 8-



from service provision functions at the central level; (ii) design of new coordination
mechanisms among the various organizational levels; (iii) definition of the health services
package; (iv) identification of the beneficiary population; (v) design of provider payment
systems that create incentives for improving quality and efficiency; and (vi) design of a solid
system for monitoring and evaluation.
Of the above, the core aspect achieved by the design finally approved was separating the
financing and provision areas at the central management level. The new ASSE structure, in
fact, creates a new unit for negotiating performance agreements separated from a technical
unit currently in charge of public hospitals and, in the future, responsible for verifying
compliance with performance agreements.
Although the new structures of the MSP and ASSE were approved in July 2002, by project
closure only partial progress had been made in implementing the functional and
organizational changes deriving from them, especially at the Directorate General of Health
("Direcci6n General de Salud" DIGESA) in the Ministry. In particular, staff appointments
and transfers had not yet been made, new functions were yet to be assigned and the pertinent
budgetary changes were still pending, although they were already identified with support
from the project.
Information Systems Developments. The project developed key information systems and: (i)
provided needed hardware for its utilization. The most important developments included:
The Health Insurance Identification Database ("Registro UJnico de Cobertura Asistencial
Formal", RUCAF), that enables public hospitals to identify patients who already have health
insurance coverage and is now operational in all public hospitals and updated on a monthly
base. The usage of this system will have a significant impact, as reflected in better targeting of
public hospital services to the uninsured while enabling cost recovery from third party payers;
(ii) the epidemiological surveillance system ("Sistema de Vigilancia Epidemiol6gica", SEVE),
being partially used under the DIGESA, mainly for statistics; (iii) the general sector
information system ("Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial"(SIG), used by the MSP to organize
overall health sector information; (iv) the human resource management system, allowing the
Ministry's central management to better mnonitor and track its staffing, including short-term
contracts and all personnel in ASSE's hospitals; and (v) the MSP web page (
www.msp.gub.uy. Other sub-products included improvements in the areas of ID cards for
beneficiaries eligible for free public services, an overall document administration system for
MSP and ASSE, and a national registry for health sector providers.
There was, however, only limited progress in the development of two other fundamental
information technology pillars: First, it was not possible to conclude an integral information
technology solution for hospital management applied and evaluated in, at least, the four pilot
hospitals (partial solutions have proven successful in a couple of the participating hospitals
but have not been expanded). Secondly, by project closure, it had not been possible to
finalize a product to enable ASSE to identify and categorize its users based on their ability to
pay (and not only insurance coverage), an important feature for the introduction of consumer
fees. These two products financed by the project are awaiting assessment and final definition
-9-



by ASSE.
Health Services Studies
The project also supported studies aimed at institutional capacity-building. These studies
have been consolidated into a single database, available for consultation and research (for
details see Section 4.2, Component III). In the final months of the project, National Health
Accounts for 1999 and 2000 were concluded using the OECD methodology, and several
other studies were concluded and published. Additionally, the project supported with
technical assistance the definition of a restructuring plan of the National Resources Fund
("Fondo Nacional de Recursos", FNR), responsible for funding nationwide high complexity
medical care. As a result of the implementation of the initial measures identified in the plan,
the FNR has saved an estimated US$25 million/year (out of a total annual budget of US$150
million).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I: Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities
The outputs included the following:
e     Review of national and international experiences regarding decentralization and
contracting out of publicly-financed health services;
0     The pilot program transferring greater responsibilities to public hospital directors;
o     Strengthening management in the pilot hospitals (international consultancy for
12 months);
o     The delivery of medical equipment to the entities that signed and complied with
performance agreements with ASSE;
o     A training program in hospital administration and benchmarking of best hospital
practices; and
e     Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the pilot program
(including an international consultancy and the development of various consumer surveys).
Component II: Institutional Strengthening
The major outputs included:
e     Review of the health sector legal fiamework;
e     The design of a new structure for the MSP and ASSE, including an implementation plan
(and later on including a restructuring plan for the FNR);
-10-



*     The development of the various information systems (for details see previous section) with
corresponding training;
*     The purchasing of hardware for the central levels and participating hospitals;
*     Training. In total, nine fellowship-holders did postgraduate studies abroad, of whom five
are employed in the public sector. In addition, nine MSP staff members completed
masters courses offered in conjunction with a foreign university. Technical training for
350 MSP staff and 350 ASSE staff was completed satisfactorily; short-courses were also
conducted under the project. Training for mid-level management in both agencies was
also delivered; and
*     International Seminar. An international seminar on health policies was conducted in June
2002. The main objective of this seminar, attended by the main stakeholders in the
Uruguayan health sector, was to prompt thinking about the future possibilities of reform in
the country.
Component III: Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities
The outputs for this component consisted of:
*     Sector Studies, including: (i) National Health Accounts Study; (ii) Analysis of the Legal
Framework in Health; (iii) Identification of Procedures for Voluntary Accreditation of
Health Providers; (iv) Annual Statistical Handbook on Health Indicators; (v) Demographic
Profile Study; (vi) Review of international experiences related to setting health priorities
and cost-effectiveness programs; and (vii) Global burden of disease study.
*     Clinical Protocols: 27 clinical protocols were developed, and are being used in public
hospitals, although still not systematically. Ten of these protocols have been validated by
the scientific societies. Three of the largest private insurer entities (covering 40% of the
private insurance market) have accepted the protocols. Expanding the utilization of these
protocols is a task pending for DIGESA and ASSE.
*     Licensing of Health Service Providers: A study financed by the project developed a model
of voluntary service accreditation for private and public providers, as well as the analysis
of feasibility of the pattern and an organizational-institutional proposal for their
implementation. Unfortunately, this model was never implemented due to resistance
within various units in the MSP (DIGESA). Currently, the new administration is
promoting a new model of obligatory accreditation, based in the progress made with the
project's support.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:



Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. The project had a modest but important institutional development impact. It succeeded
in expanding the pilot experience of public hospital autonomy to 32 public hospitals in Uruguay.
The performance agreements have created a positive impact, both qualitatively and quantitatively,
including improvements in organizational culture and teamwork, incorporation of accounting
practices, initiation of quality improvement processes, better cost control, and enhanced
performance monitoring.
At the central level, the project also contributed to the modernization of the MSP and ASSE. In
the MSP, it contributed to developing an organization that better recognizes the importance of
essential public health functions under DIGESA. In the ASSE, it introduced the separation of
purchasing and provision responsibilities, setting the stage for future reforms that may better align
incentives in the health sector and promote accountability.
However, it must also be acknowledged that the government did not implement several project
recommendations nor fully used some of its products as originally expected by the closure of the
project. Examples included the consumer identification system at public hospitals to charge user
fees and increase cost recovery, as well as the studies for implementing a quality assurance system
in the country. Likewise, the complete implementation of the new organizational structure for the
central level agencies (MSP and ASSE) was pending at project closure, due to the delay in overall
project execution. Fortunately, as reflected in the borrower's comments in section 9 (a), there is
interest by the current authorities in using many of these products.
S. Mafoir IFactors Affecing mlementtion annd Outcoume
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(i) The deteriorating macroeconomic situation of Uruguay since 1998, and the resulting
financial crisis affected project implementation. Consequently, counterpart funds in the project
always lagged behind during implementation, requiring repeated interventions from the Bank.
(ii) The difficult political environment resulting from the power struggle between the executive
branch of the government and the Congress delayed the implementation of sector reforms. For
example, on two occasions (1995 and 1998), legislative initiatives presented by the executive
branch of the government for implementing autonomous hospitals experiences did not obtain
congressional support.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i) Frequent change of administration and staff severely hampered project implementation.
During the nine years of project preparation and implementation, there were three different
governments, six ministers of health and five PCU directors. Repeatedly, the Bank had to
re-discuss the project's objectives and components with new staff in the government and ask for
their reassurance of support and commitment. The objective of enhancing private participation in
the delivery of health services for the poor confronted the most stiff resistance from incoming
authorities. This lack of stability and rhythm of implementation is reflected in the fact that the
project had to go through one amendment and three closing date extensions (totaling two years).
- 12-



(ii) Over-sized PCU had a negative influence on implementation. In the initial years, there was
difficulty in keeping the PCU to a reasonable size. Since the working conditions of the PCU (in
terms of salary, work schedules, and basic facilities) were, overall, better than those for staff in the
MSP, there was a tendency to abuse this recruiting process. On two occasions, when the PCU
became disproportionately overstaffed, the Bank had to intervene to trim its size. This situation
contributed to negative relationships between the PCU and ASSE and MSP staff, relationships
that were fundamental to achieving the project's objectives. There was opposition to many
project initiatives to a certain extent because these initiatives were seen as coming from privileged
outsiders.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Lack of clarity in implementation between MSP and ASSE was a bottleneckfor smooth
implementation. There was lack of clarity in implementation since two institutions/agencies, MSP
and ASSE were involved in the project. Although ASSE is formally an agency under the scope of
the MSP, its budgetary and political importance enables it to function, on many occasions,
independently from the MSP. While public hospitals were directly under ASSE's control, the
PCU was accountable to the MSP. Because of this arrangement, there were problems. When a
proper alignment of expectations and efforts between the MSP, ASSE and the project was finally
reached, progress in development objectives was significant.
(ii) Loss of continuity in the PCUstaffing adversely affected project implementation. Beginning
in March 1995, various PCU teams were not knowledgeable about the project and about constant
interventionBank procedures, especially on procurement matters, thereby affecting the rhythm of
implementation for the next three years.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$17.95 million compared with the SAR estimate of US$28.0
million. Consequently, the original Bank loan of $15.6 million was finally reduced to $9.26
million (including a $5 million cancellation in 1998). This reduction reflects changes in the project
cost structure, mostly related to the cancellation of investments in management information
systems for participating hospitals and less intensive and briefer international technical assistance
for hospital improvements.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely. The sustainability of the project is likely, considering that laws have been approved that
will maintain the changes supported by the Project. For example: (i) the restructuring of MSP and
ASSE has been approved by the Congress, even though it has not yet been implemented; (ii)
performance agreements, signed between ASSE and public hospitals, have now been included as a
necessary condition for all public hospitals in the five-year national budget for 2001-2006. Besides
these important legal guarantees, the cultural changes brought about by the project are also likely
to be maintained. For instance, currently, public hospital directors are actively involved in
discussing business plans with the central levels of ASSE, or replicating performance agreements
within their own clinical services. New authorities in the MSP have ratified many of the changes
introduced by the project and are actively using its products.
-13 -



In order to support this transfornation in the functioning of public hospitals, however, it is
essential to strengthen the technical monitoring capability in ASSE, including the identification
and monitoring of outcome indicators (both of the management process and of the goals agreed
to in the performance agreements). Rather than lack of information, the absence of a culture for
using indicators remains the most important challenge.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Same as in Sec. 6.1.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was satisfactory. The Bank took into account the project's consistency with the
government's development priorities and the CAS. The Bank, which had a harmonious team with
a good skill mix, brought state-of-the-art expertise into project design.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account all major relevant aspects
(technical, financial, economic, institutional, procurement and safeguard policies) in project
design. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The
Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during these stages.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
The Bank allocated sufficient budget resources to assure adequate supervision. Over the seven
years of project implementation, there were twelve supervision missions. The Bank-client
relationship was cordial and productive. Supervision teams included specialists in public health,
hospital administration, health economics, financial managemnent and disbursements, and
procurement.
Except for a six-month period in 1996 when there was a slown down in supervision because of
the departure of the task manager, the Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of
project implementation. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, alerting the
government to problems with project execution and suggesting remedies in a timely manner, in
conformity with Bank's procedures. The Form 590s and PSRs realistically rated the performance
of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define
concrete steps and a timetable for putting the program back on track.
The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of
advice and the follow-up to agreed actions was adequate. Loan covenants were enforced. The
staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation. External
consultants were used for specific aspects of project components, as well as for the Mid-Term
Review (MTR). Bank staff worked closely with the govemment and the implementing agency
and provided them with extensive assistance, in terms of suggestions for drafting the laws and
- 14-



regulations, reviewing legal drafts, and other assistance in the various technical components.
However, frequent changes by the Bank in task managing responsibilities may have affected
implementation. In total, the project had five different task managers.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation,
appraisal, and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory.
During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the
objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of design and all major aspects such as
technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors, including
stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the implementing agency worked
closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Although irregular, the overall government's performance during implementation
was satisfactory. There was insufficient government commitment and ownership during the first
three years of implementation. However, the situation clearly improved after November 1998 with
the restructuring of the project. The government thereafter gave high priority to the
transformation of the relationship between ASSE and its hospitals in order to achieve better
performance in the sector. Proof of this commitment was the 2001 Budget Law which
incorporated the use of performance agreements between ASSE and its executing units, and set a
deadline of six months for MSP and ASSE restructuring. Likewise, the signing of performance
agreements by 32 major public hospitals (including all departmental hospitals) for 2002 and an
aggressive move by the new authorities in the MSP (including ASSE and DIGESA) to apply key
instruments developed by the project (such as the beneficiary identification systems and the
implementation of the FNR reform) must be acknowledged. Even what had been the weakest
point throughout project implementation - monitoring and evaluation of service delivery units - is
being significantly improved by ASSE's own staff beyond the project's closure.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agency varied tremendously throughout the
project cycle due to frequent administrative changes. During the first three years of
implementation, the performance of the PCU, which had a new team recruited by the new
government in March 1995, was unsatisfactory. There was no coordination within the PCU--each
component and subcomponent was mostly run autonomously. There were 56 part-time
consultants in the PCU, out of which 16 were mostly assigned to administrative chores and 40
were associated with components and studies; 42 consultants had loose part-time contracts which
did not ensure clear-cut deliverables. Procurement and other activities were not sufficiently
planned. Disbursement forecasts were unrealistic and effective disbursements lagged significantly
behind in relation to the original SAR estimates. After two years of implementation, the project
had disbursed only $1.8 million (less than 15 percent of the total loan amount), mostly in
consultant fees, with relatively few outputs. This even caused public criticisms which further
-15 -



deteriorated the working relationship of the PCU with the MSP and ASSE, as well as with the
Ministry of Finance and the Budget and Planning Office ("Oficina de Planeaci6n y Presupuesto",
OPP). Especially troublesome was the lack of communication and difficult working relationships
between the PCU and the directors of ASSE and DIGESA, as the latter were the implementing
agencies of most of the reforms being sought.
The performance of the PCU improved after the project was restructured in November 1998, a
partial loan amount was cancelled, and a new Project Coordinator was appointed. Thereafter,
implementation progressed in accordance with the new timetable set at the time of reprogramming
activities. The PCU became well-organized and effective in dealing with procurement,
disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project. Appropriate
levels of review and approval were in place, expenditures were duly authorized before they were
incurred and documentation was maintained properly for an adequate period of time for the
purpose of review, as confirmed in a 2001 procurement post-review. There were no
discrepancies or difficulties regarding the Special Account and funds flow, and there were no
audit objections to compliance with contractual or internal control requirements, other than the
already-mentioned lag in counterpart funds. Financial management procedures were conducted
in line with the Bank's guidelines. For the last two years of the project, the PCU structure
included a total of nine staff, out of whom four were paid with local funds.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Strong and continuous government support is required for even the most gradual phasing
of health reforms. It is equally important to have flexibility in project design and a clear
exit strategy because of the risks of reforms. Communication strategies should be
considered from the very beginning when proposed changes are expected to generate
significant resistance and opposition from stakeholders.
m     In order to achieve project objectives, the concept and importance of M&E has to be
introduced right from the beginning of the project. Furthermore, it quickly has to be
reflected in functional systems being in place. If not, as project implementation advances
and the project's cycle (and pending disbursements) shorten, it will become increasingly
difficult to correct this weakness.
*      [The project demonstrated that, if an innovative pilot program is implemented well and
coincides with serious government commitment, it is possible to replicate the program in
other hospitals and expand its benefits on a sustainable track.
*     Strong working relationship between the central level staff (in this case, the MSP and
ASSE) and the PCU will make it easier to advance in project implementation and
institutionalize the benefits and lessons leamed from it. This would also ensure better
project outcomes and their sustainability.
-16-



*     Presenting a project to the Board immediately before a new government comes to power
entails significant risks. In such a situation, apart from the potential delay in
implementation, there is always the likelihood that the new administration may have a
totally different view of the project. In addition, project implementation is also likely to be
adversely affected and the achievements of the project would be limited.
*      Continuity is key to project success. When changes do occur, it is important to
immediately verify the appropriateness of the new management team with respect to Bank
policies and procedures, among other things, and re-train in the Bank related procedures if
necessary.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The governrnent's contribution to this docurnent in included in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
ICR Team:
Juan Pablo Uribe (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Luis Perez (Consultant)
Natalia Moncada (Program Assistant)
Helen Saxenian (Lead Economist)
Comments Received from:
Ariel Fiszbein, Sector Leader
Evangeline Javier, Sector Manager
Maria Lucy Giraldo, Sr. Procurement Specialist
Pilar Gonzalez, Legal Counsel
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outeome I Impact Indicators:
- lndlectorIMatW                  .PrQJoctsd  IastPSR.                  ActuaULatest Estimate
Pilot Hospital Decentralzatbon Program  Not Applicable                     Transferred greater autonomy to the public
hospitals.
Performance agreements signed with 32
public hospitals nationwide. Legal reform
mandates and supports this change.
Introduced significant changes in structure
and processes in public provider network.
Improved hospital management
Institutional Strengthening                                                Restructuring of MSP. A thorough diagnosis
of the organiation structure, functions and
processes of the MOH carried out.
Integrated proposal for restructuring and
redesigning of the organizational structure
prepared, approved and being Implemented.
Restructuring of ASSE. Developed a
proposal for the organizabonal restructuring
and the redesign of critcal processes, which
was approved and began Implementaton.
Informabon Systems Developments.
Developed various key information systems
and provided needed hardware for their
utilization.
Establishment of Health Sector Disease                                      27 dinical protocols developed and being
Prioriies                                                                   used by public hospitals and by some major
private Insurers.
- 18 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Prpjected ir last PSR      - -      ActuallLatest Estimate
Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery  Not Applicable                      Delivered medical equipment to the entides
Responsibilities                                                          that signed and complied with perfomnance
agreements with ASSE.
Conducted training program in hospital
administrabon and benchmaridng of best
hospital practices.
Designed and partially implemented a
monitoring and evaluabon system for the pilot
program.
Institutonal Strengthening                                                Training. Nine fellowship-holders did
postgraduate studies abroad. Nine MSP staff
members completed masters courses offered
In conjuncton with a foreign university.
Technical training for 350 MSP staff and 350
ASSE staff completed. Training for mid-level
management in both agencies also delivered.
An intemabtonal seminar on health policies
conducted in June 2002.
Establishment of Health Sector Disease                                     Sector Studies conduded included- (i)
Priorities                                                                 Nabonal Health Accounts Study (up to 2000);
(ii) Analsis of the Legal Framework In
Health; (iii) Identification of Procedures for
Voluntary Accreditabon of Health Care
Providers; (iv) Annual Statistical Handbook
on Health Indicators; (v) Demographic Profile
Study; (vi) Review of internatonal
experiences related to setbng health priorites
and cost-effectiveness programs; and (vii)
Global burden of disease study.
Ucensing of Health Service Providers:
Developed a model of voluntary service
accreditabon for private and public providers.
End of project
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
I. Delegation of MSP's Service Delivery Responsibilities  4.30    7.65         177.9
II. Institutional Development                     14.70           7.53          51.2
III. Establishment of Health Sector Disease Priorities  5.20      2.76           53
Total Baseline Cost                               24.20          17.94
Physical Contingencies                            1.70
Price Contingencies                               2.10
Total Project Costs            28.00         17.94
Total Financing Required            28.00          17.94
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB        Othr2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Note: In 1995, the Loan 3855 did not have appraisal estimate of project cost by procurement arrangements.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Othr2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    3.22         0.00         0.92         0.79        4.93
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 3.75         0.00         7.50         0.80       12.05
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.06         0.00        0.06
-20-



(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
I_   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         6.97           0.00           8.48           1.59          17.04
__   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Note: In 1995, the Loan 3855 did not have appraisal estimate of project cost by procurement arrangements.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operatmg costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component  Appr.isal Es.imate                     1Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appiraiisal Estinmate;        Actu'al /Laest Esi imate
._______________.______  Bank    Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank    Guot   CoF.
1. Delegation of MSP's    1.30       4.05                0.73       1.03               56.2   25.4
Service Delivery
Responsibilities
11. Institutional         3.50       2.50                3.24       2.32               92.6   92.8
Development
IH. Establishment of     3.50      2.30                 3.36       2.24               96.0   97.4
Health Sector Disease
Priorities
PCU                       1.10       1.80                1.02       1.76               92.7   97.8
PPF                       0.92                           0.91                          98.9
Unallocated               0.28                                                         0.0
Administration                       1.75                           1.33                      76.0
TOTAL                     10.60     12.40                9.26       8.68               87.4   70.0
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs znd Beneflts
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Not Applicable
-22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty       Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count        Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/06/1995               1   PUBLIC HLTH. SPEC/TM          S            S
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/05/1995               2   PUBLIC HLTH. SPEC/TM;         S            S
PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST
Supervision
N/A                     N/A  N/A
09/28/1995               2   PUBLIC HLTH. SPEC./TM (1);    S            S
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
03/08/1996               4   CONSULTANT (2); PUBLIC        S            S
HLTH.SPEC./TM (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
04/18/1997               4   NUT, HEALTH, POP. SPEC (1);   U            U
PROCUREMENT CONSULT.
(1); SR. PUBLIC HEALTH
SPEC (1); HOSPITAL
AUTONOMY CONS (1)
02/02/1998               1   TASK MANAGER (1)              U            U
06/25/1998               4   PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI         S           S
(2); LEGAL COUNSEL (1);
TASK MANAGER (1)
03/12/1999               5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S           S
COUNTRY SECTOR LEADER
(1); FINANCIAL MAN. SPEC.
(1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
CONSULTANT (1)
08/27/1999               6   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S            S
COUNTRY SECTOR LEADER
(1); CONSULTANT (2);
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SPEC (1); PROJECT
ASSISTANT (1)
04/13/2000               3   OPERATIONS OFFICER / T         S           S
(1); FINANC. MGMT
SPECIALIS (1); PROJECT
ASSISTANT (1)
09/22/2000               2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S           S
OPER. OFFICER/PAST TTL (1)
05/04/2001               2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S           S
OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
10/26/2001               4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S            S
PROCUREMENT SPECI (1);
-23 -



FINANCIAL MGMT (1);
HEALTH EXP. CONSULT (1)
11CR
05/30/2002                  3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S            S
INTER-CONSULTANT (1);
FINANCIAL MGMT
SPEC. (1)
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              97.7                    313,545
Appraisal/Negotiation                    n/a                         n/a
Supervision                             40.6                     130,294
ICR                                     1.71                      4,982
Total                                 140.01                    448,821
t This table is based on the information currently in SAP. The figures for staff weeks for identification/preparation
and part of supervision are only estimated. No data is available for appraisal/negotiation. For data before FY98,
the infornation system provides total amounts, without disaggregating by number staff weeks and project cycle
stage.
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negltgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                      O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
rI Physical                            OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
I Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
LI Institutional Development           O H  * SU O M   O N  0 NA
El Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
a Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      ON   * NA
L Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   * N  0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H  * SU 0 M 0 N    0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annem 6. 1Rdtuag$ 0 Ba nl smd Borroweir eoriarmunce
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
LI Lending                                          OHS OS       OLU   OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS Os       OU   OHU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O u OHU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.
2. Project Progress Reports.
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.
4. "Informe de Finalizaci6n de Implementaci6n, Proyecto FISS": Borrower's Evaluation Report
dated September 2002; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Uruguay: Health Sector Development Project dated February 21,
1995 (Report No. 13678-UR).
- 27 -



AddWtuonaR Annex 8. Governnment ContrAbndoita
MontevIdeo, 28 de novwembze de 2002
SeMJor
Ofi cial de Operaclones
del Banco Mundial
Dr. Juan Pablo Uribe
Ref. PrAstamo NO 3855 - UR
Fortaleclreneo L Scior Ozfwd
Repe Orental del Ulgway
4seo-jCR- I    e o rt
De ml mayor consideraci6n:
For med&o de k presente,  voamaos §a conomldd en 'enetzal POP
parte de la Repiblica Oriental del Uruguay y de este AOnisterlo, al documento del Banco Alndkul:
"Implementadon Compleion Report: Loan Nos. 38550. 3855A y 38555'" nImero 24995, de fjc&a 7
de noviembre de 2002 y correspondiente al desempePio del MSP/IPPoys etc &7W No. 3855 UY
(Fortalec1miento Instituclonal del Sector Sald - GSS).
Concomitantemente, deseamos dejar especeal constncafa y pmrz sm
incorporaclOn al documentofinal del ICR sefialado, eluato da v'stw de este Ministerlo, medlanee gas
sigzdentes consideraciones y precisiones sobre los concepoos agporeados par- el IBanco M!dial en el
mismo:
1) Numeral 4.5 (dginef 15)
No se comparte la caltficaci6n de 'Modesto" efectuada porXpare del BA en elpcnto sePakkdo, jpD
que el ICR da su calificaci6n at cierre del Proyecto y no estma el impacgo a ser logrado a era2rs
de los productos obtemdos por el Poqyeao fl5SS, tanto en el med,ano y el largo plazo ()prcecos
enfase de implantaci6n) y que refiuezan tato las politicas actalmente impalsadas por el A   y
las acciones concretas achdlmaemnte en desarrollo mediante el inalorable aporte de los p?vdwZceos
disponibles a traes del mismo:
A) El iP-ASSPE y los eqdpos ale gesa'in de lo hospitales, a trats del Prqa,ctv, gogZraan
conjuntamente quebrar la cultural Instituclonal, on7 arialgada de centrallzaci6n ea el
Uruguay (con una concentraci6n del poder en la toma de dectsiones de ddcadas). I bien al
presente no se aprecia on su totalidad el cambio cmral y su dlmensl6m, se ha logrado
revertir la negativ concepcl6n, siendo el wwyo? logro la irrzerslbilidad del proceso y sm
aceptacld6
B) $ bien los productos obnidos pOF el Proyecto FISS ka sido utliwdos percalmenae pzr la
Dlreccldn General de la Salud (DIGEA), las ndsmosfueron concebidos oporn ee Oo
P 4 s6fida viu7in tdcnica de fi0wo y de concreta apllcabilidad  dicha dlracc,6. Las
nuemas autorldades que asumleron en abril de 2002, han compre4do cabalmente, la utilidad
de las herranmentas d.sponibles a m*s del Proyecto FISSy han comenadofirmemente con
am concreta lmplaacl6n (Sistema de Inforrz6idne Gerenclal - SNG;  stema de EaiAmd1slos
-28 -



Ptales y Epidemiologfa - SEVE; etc.), que resultan imprescndibles para el desarrollo
estratMgico en la actual gestf6n y sobre todo como herramtenta de desarrollo en los sistemas
de Informaclon de la DIGE&4 (los mismos han sido ya Internalizados por el nuevo equipo
ticnlco de la mtsma).
C) La reestructura organizacional tanto del MSP como la de ASSE, fuieron consecuencia difrecta
de las activwdades y de los productos proporcionados por el Proyecto FlSS. Los mismos, sf se
encontraban legalmente aprobados, vigentes y enfranco proceso de implantact6n: El proceso
ha sido debtdamente ilevado a cabo en coordinacton con la Comist6n Especial para la
Reforma del Estado (CEPRE) y la Oficina de Serviclo Civil (OSC), por lo que el dxito
alcanzado, reto alcanzado pese a lo ambictoso y las innumerables dificultades que presentaba
tan crucial reestructura del Inciso.
Por las razones expuestas, este Ministerto valora y estima que el avance fue, "Sadsfactorion
y de previsible alto impacto tanto en el medianoy en el largo plazo.
2) Anexo 5 (pdga 28)
Se compartiria la caltflcacton en cuanto al alcance de los objetivos versus los productos par
Componente, en el renglkn "F)sico: Modesto", st a los mismos se los tomara como "productos
internalhzados " por la estructura del Mintsterto y no como "productos obtenidos ".
En las tiffmas misiones del BM, se han considerado como "Satisfactorios" los productos
logrados por el Proyecto FlSS. La salvedad4 como ya se indic6, radica en las dtficultades en
cuanto a la "aproptaci6n" por parte de la estuctura misma del Mtnisterto, de los productos
alcanzados (en nuestra optnt6n se considero el Outcome y no el Output), desde nuestro punto de
vista, ya que se encuentran en plenafase de adopci6n y concreta Implantacton en elpresente. y de
seguro impacto en el mediano y el largo plazo.
Lo ambicloso de los productos pfanteados y su trabafosa tmplantact6n hacen que al momento del
cierre no se pueda cuantificar y medir el impacto real de los mismos, stendo factible su
esiimaci6n  Dicha esttmacI6n, es calificada por este Ministerio como muy exitosa y
"SadisfaoForio" hall/endose en curso elproceso de su tmplantacton.
Sin otro particular y esperando que las consideraciones aportadas
sean recogidas en el documentofinal, le saluda con la mds alta estima,
Di. A4ONSO VARELA
Ministro de 8alud Publica
- 29 -



- 30 -



IBRD 26117
|      ~518'                          516-                          514-
|          \s>Bello Unl6n SJe
ga8~~>  Ar                              U R URUGUAY
A R T IG ARTIGMAIN ROADS
Z      t                         )     QRwveral                      =   RIVERS
0 TOWVNS
N 1  i  ^onst~         >      j    ,/)  \     4>                 69NATIONAL CAPITAL
BRIDGES
j   AIRPORTS
T cy                     ))      |         ' Tocuoem  b g t\  - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
-. _-- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
320
UA R E- MF                          t    
I 4.toiRoI e 
%i~~NE G R J                     NEGRR OW
/ I                             D U R A Z MONTEVDEONO    I       T R E S
o     20   40    60    80 Kmlometers                  dn 5tp°                                 Ih.









IMAGING
Report No.:        24995
Type:     ICR



