Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3855 UR
                               Loan Agreement
                     (Health Sector Development Project)
                                   between
                       REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated April 28, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3855 UR
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1995, between REPUBLICA
ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
       (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
             "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
       under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
       be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
       Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "BROU" means the Bank of the Oriental Republic of
Uruguay (Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay), a state-
owned bank of the Borrower;
       (b)   "Eligible Departments" means the departments
(Departamentos) within the Borrower's territory in which Part
A.3 of the Project would be carried out and which meet the
criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual;
       (c)   "Eligible Entity" means either: (i) a non-profit
collective medical assistance entity owned by private
individuals and/or entities in Uruguay (IAMC-Institucion de
Asistencia Medica Colectiva); (ii) a local government within
the Borrower's territory (Gobierno Departamental); (iii) a
state-owned hospital incorporated as a trust fund in Uruguay;
(iv) a profit-making medical entity or insurance entity owned
by private individuals and/or entities in Uruguay; or (v) any
other entity within the Borrower's territory, which has met the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual;
       (d)   "Eligible Professional" means a professional employed
by any entity which provides health services within the
Borrower's territory who meets the criteria set forth in the
Implementation Manual in order to be benefitted by a
scholarship under Part B.4 of the Project;
       (e)   "Eligible Public Health Program" means a program
which has met the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Implementation Manual;
       (f)   "Implementation Manual" means the Borrower's manual
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement which sets
forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria to be met by the Eligible
Departments and Eligible Entities (under Part A.3 of the
Project) and the Eligible Public Health Programs (under Part
C.1(e) of the Project); (ii) the criteria to be met by the
Eligible Professionals (under Part B.4 of the Project) and the
minimum terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the
scholarships to be granted to each Eligible Professionals;
(iii) the expected outcomes of the Project, the guidelines and
the performance and monitoring indicators to be followed by the
Borrower, through MSP, in the carrying out of the Project; (iv)
the minimum terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, to
be included in each MSP Agreement and Technical Assistance
Agreement; and (v) the scope and detail of the strategy
referred to in Section 3.07(c) of this Agreement;
       (g)   "Implementation Program" means the timetable of
certain activities to be carried out under the Project set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
       (h)   "Legal Framework" means the Borrower's legal
framework for the health sector, including, inter alia: (i) Law
No. 9.202 dated January 12, 1934; (ii) Law No. 15.903 dated
November 10, 1987; (iii) Decree Law No. 15.181 dated August 21,
1981; and (iv) the regulations to such laws, as such laws and
regulations have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
Page  3
       (i)   "MEF" means the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas) of the Borrower;
       (j)   "MSP" means the Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio
de Salud Publica) of the Borrower;
       (k)   "MSP Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through MSP and an Eligible Entity
for purposes of establishing the terms and conditions of the
provision of health services to be provided by such Eligible
Entity within an Eligible Department under Part A.3 (d) of the
Project, referred to in paragraph 3(c)(ii) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
       (l)   "Peso Uruguayo" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (m)   "PCU" means the Project coordination unit established
pursuant to Executive Decree No. 559/993 dated December 8,
1993, duly published in the Official Gazette (Diario Oficial
No. 25956), referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
       (n)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
       (o)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to the Agreement Letter dated March 24, 1993, duly
countersigned by the Borrower's representative on April 1,
1993, as amended by the Amendment Letter dated December 7,
1993, duly countersigned by the Borrower's representative on
December 22, 1993;
       (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
       (q)   "Technical Assistance Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower, through MSP, and an
Eligible Entity within an Eligible Department for purposes of
establishing the terms and conditions of the technical
assistance to be provided by the Borrower to such Eligible
Entity under Part A.4 of the Project, referred to in paragraph
3 (c) (iii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifteen million six hundred
thousand Dollars ($15,600,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Borrower's Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
       (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
Page  4
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
             (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                   cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                   and expressed as a percentage per annum,
                   of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank
                   drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
                   such borrowings or portions thereof as the
                   Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                   investments; and (B) loans which may be
                   made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                   (a) of this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                   the second six months of a calendar year.
                (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
             outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
             Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
             dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
             the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
             principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
Page  5
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
             respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
             1 in a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.08. The Minister of MSP (or such other person or
persons as such Minister shall appoint in writing) is
designated as representative of the Borrower for purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) through MSP, shall carry
out Parts A.1, A.2, A.4, A.5, B.3, B.4 and C of the Project;
and (ii) through MSP, shall carry out Parts A.3, B.1 and B.2 of
the Project in accordance with MEF's economic and financial
policies, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with
the Implementation Manual, and in conformity with appropriate
health, technical, environmental, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
       (b)   Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the Implementation Manual or any provision thereof.
       (c)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out certain Parts of
the Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       (d)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   make available each year, until the completion
                   of the Project, promptly as needed in Pesos
                   Uruguayos, as counterpart funds for the
                   Project, the following amounts:
                               Counterpart Funds for the
                   Year        Project (in Dollars equivalent
                               as of the first day of each year
                               of Project implementation)
                   1995                     $1,600,000
                   1996                     $2,500,000
                   1997                     $3,500,000
                   1998                     $2,400,000
                   1999                     $2,400,000;
             (ii)  not later than thirty days prior to the
                   date in which the Borrower's budget
                   related to the health sector is presented
                   to the Borrower's Congress each year (with
                   the exception of 1995), furnish to the
Page  6
                   Bank, for its review, a copy of such
                   section of the budget in order to
                   determine if the amount of counterpart
                   funds for the year in question referred to
                   in (i) herein have been included; and
           (iii)   within thirty days after the date in which
                   the Borrower's budget related to the
                   health sector is approved each year,
                   furnish to the Bank a copy of such
                   approved budget, including a copy of the
                   approved budget for 1995.
       (e)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) open, and thereafter
operate and maintain in BROU, an account (the Project Account)
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of depositing in such account the Borrower's
counterpart funds for the implementation of the Project; and
(ii) maintain in the Project Account, at all times during
Project implementation, a positive balance of not less than
$100,000 equivalent.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project.
       (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
       Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shall
maintain and operate during Project implementation a unit (the
PCU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility of
assisting MSP in: (i) the coordination of the activities to be
carried out under the Project; (ii) the monitoring and
evaluation of the progress in Project implementation; (iii) the
preparation of the quarterly reports referred to in Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and (iv) the activities related to the
disbursement of Loan proceeds, procurement, and maintenance of
records and separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement.
       (b)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall ensure that the PCU
is at all times headed by a qualified professional and assisted
by staff in adequate numbers and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
       Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
MSP, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request with respect to the progress in the implementation of
the Project during the calendar quarter in question, with the
exception of the last quarterly report for each calendar year
which shall also include the information listed in (c) below.
Page  7
       (b)   The reports referred to in (a) above shall be
furnished by the Borrower, through MSP, to the Bank not later
than thirty days after the termination of the quarter for the
calendar year in question.
       (c)   The last quarterly report of each calendar year shall
also provide information with respect to the progress in
Project implementation for the entire calendar year in
question.
       Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MSP, shall not later
than December 1 of each year during Project implementation,
starting in 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank an operating
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the activities
to be carried out under the Project during the calendar year
following the date of presentation of such plan.
       Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MSP,
shall not later than December 31, 1997 complete an evaluation
of the experiences resulting from the implementation of the
pilot program referred to in Part A.3 of the Project.
       (b)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall sixty days prior to
the date of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments during such mid-term review, a draft health sector
strategy to be applied by the Borrower during the next five
years after the Project has been completed. Such draft strategy
shall take into account, inter alia, the experiences resulting
from the execution of Part A.3 of the Project.
       (c)   Based on the discussions, and comments, if any,
provided by the Bank to the Borrower during the mid-term review
with respect to the document referred to in (b) above, the
Borrower, through MSP, shall not later than March 31, 1999
prepare and furnish to the Bank a final health sector strategy,
of such scope and in such detail as described in the
Implementation Manual.
       Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
MSP, shall review jointly with the Bank by not later than March
31 of each year, starting in 1995, the progress made by the
Borrower, through MSP, in: (i) carrying out the Project; and
(ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such review
shall, inter alia, focus on analyzing the quarterly reports
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. As part of each
such review the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in
Project implementation. If so, the Borrower shall furnish such
action plan to the Bank not later than thirty days after the
conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry
out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance
with its terms.
       (b)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall participate in a
Project implementation mid-term review to be held with the Bank
as part of the annual review to be held not later than March
31, 1998. During such mid-term review, attention shall
particularly be focussed on reviewing the draft health sector
strategy referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.07 of this
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MSP, shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
Page  8
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower, through MSP, shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account and Project Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Bank;
             (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
             (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                   Bank has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Loan Account or payment out of
                   the Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents) evidencing
                   such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
             (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to
                   in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                   the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to
                   whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation,
                   can be relied upon to support the related
                   withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   that the Legal Framework or any provision thereof has
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not
enforced, in such a manner so as to affect substantially, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry
out Part A.3 of the Project; and
Page  9
       (b)   that any MSP Agreement or Technical Assistance
Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
assigned, suspended, terminated, abrogated, waived or not
enforced, in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of
the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Part A.3 of
the Project.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any of the events referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
       (b)   that any of the events referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 45 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   that the head of the PCU have been appointed and that
such unit have been staffed, as provided by Section 3.04 of
this Agreement;
       (b)   that the Implementation Manual have been duly
approved by the Borrower, through MSP; and
       (c)   that the Project Account has been opened at BROU with
an amount of not less than $175,000 equivalent, and that the
remaining balance of counterpart funds for the first year of
Project implementation are available at BROU in a manner and
under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
       Section 6.02. The date July 27, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of MEF is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
             Colonia 1089
             Montevideo, Uruguay
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINECON                    269 MINECON UY
                   Montevideo, Uruguay
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
Page  10
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                         By /s/ Alfredo Solari
                                                   Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Edilberto Segura
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated              % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods:
    (a) Hardware               8,600,000          100% of foreign
        Equipment and                             expenditures
        Software
        Application
    (b) Vehicles                 200,000          100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures
(2) Consultants'                4,800,000         50%
    Services
    and Training
(3) Refunding of                  900,000         Amounts due
Page  11
    Project                                       pursuant to
    Preparation                                   Section 2.02
    Advance                                       (c) of this
                                                  Agreement
(4) Unallocated                 1,100,000
                               __________
        TOTAL                  15,600,000
                               ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000,
may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after July
31, 1994; (b) payments made for expenditures under Part A.3 of
the Project unless and without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the activities to be carried
under Part B.1 of the Project have been completed in a manner
and under terms satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) payments made
for expenditures under Part A.4 of the Project with respect to
an Eligible Entity within the Eligible Department in question,
unless the Borrower, through MSP, has: (i) met the condition
referred to in paragraph (b) herein; (ii) entered into an MSP
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with such Eligible Entity;
and (iii) entered into a Technical Assistance Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with such Eligible Entity.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such
expenditures under contracts for: (a) hardware equipment and
software application to be awarded under Part C.2 of Section I
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent; and (c) the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the
efficiency and the quality of the health services provided by
MSP to the poor and uninsured through the contracting of MSP's
provision of health services with Eligible Entities; and (b) to
foster the institutional development of the public health
sector in the Borrower's territory through: (i) the improvement
of the regulatory framework and the information base for
decision-making; (ii) the selective development of human
resources; and (iii) the rationalization of epidemiological
health sector priorities.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Contracting of MSP's provision of health services
1.  Carry out a review of the national and international
experiences with respect to the decentralization and
contracting of the provision of health services.
Page  12
2.  Establish and analyze the different alternatives to contract
the provision of health services of MSP with Eligible Entities,
including, inter alia, the design of: (a) an operational
framework for each alternative; and (b) the mechanism for the
payment of the health services to be provided to the
beneficiaries by the Eligible Entities as a result of the
contracting of MSP's provision of health services.
3.  Carry out a pilot program consisting, inter alia, of: (a)
selecting the Eligible Departments; (b) selecting the Eligible
Entities; (c) drafting the legal documents for each alternative
referred to in Part A.2 above; (d) contracting the provision of
health services of MSP with Eligible Entities within Eligible
Departments in the Borrower's territory as a result of the
activity to be carried out under Part A.2 above; and (e)
implementing the provision of health services to be provided by
the Eligible Entities.
4.  Strengthen the management of Eligible Entities (including
the acquisition and utilization of equipment and provision of
training required therefor) which would carry out the provision
of health services under the pilot program referred to in Part
A.3 above.
5.  Design and implement a system to evaluate the pilot program
referred to in Part A.3 above.
Part B:   Institutional Development
1.  Carry out a review of the public health regulatory
framework, and improve, if needed, such regulatory framework in
order to implement: (i) the contracting of MSP's provision of
health services with Eligible Entities under the pilot program
referred to in Part A.3 above; and (ii) the institutional
reorganization of the public health sector to be carried out
under Part B.2 (b) below.
2.  (a)   Design the institutional reorganization of the public
health sector in order to strengthen MSP's role to regulate and
finance the provision of health services; and (b) implement the
institutional reorganization referred to in (a) herein.
3.  (a)   Design of a public health's sector management
information system; and (b) implement the system referred to in
(a) herein within the Eligible Departments.
4.  Strengthen the technical and management capacity of health
sector professionals within the Borrower's territory through
the provision of scholarships to Eligible Professionals.
Part C:   Health Service
1.  Carry out a priority health program consisting, inter alia,
of: (a) a review of the international experiences in the
definition of disease priorities and the establishment of cost-
effective public health programs; (b) an analysis of the
experiences mentioned in (a) herein which are applicable to
Uruguay; (c) a review of the current standards for the
provision of health services, and improve, if needed, such
standards; (d) the application of global burden of disease and
cost-effective methodologies to Eligible Entities within
Eligible Departments, and the dissemination of the application
of such methodologies to other departments (Departamentos)
within the Borrower's territory; (e) the carrying out of
Eligible Public Health Programs resulting from the review
referred to in (a) herein, including, if required, the
strengthening of such programs; and (f) the evaluation of the
impact of rationalizing the disease priorities.
2.  Carry out a program to evaluate the quality of health
services consisting, inter alia, of: (a) the design of quality
evaluation and health provider accreditation systems to be
Page  13
applied to Eligible Entities within Eligible Departments; (b)
the application of the systems referred to in (a) herein to
Eligible Entities within Eligible Departments; (c) the design
of a nationwide quality evaluation and provider accreditation
system, and apply such system within the Borrower's territory
(as a result of the application of the systems referred to in
(a) herein); and (d) evaluate the impact of the application of
the systems referred to in (a) and (c) herein.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
    Date Payment Due                     Payment of Principal
                                        (expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 2000
     through April 15, 2010                    780,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                           Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as a
                                    percentage per annum) applicable
                                    to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                              0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                              0.40
Page  14
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                                0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                             0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                              1.00
    maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, the goods referred to
in Part A.3 of this Section, shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid valuation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A and Part C.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall use
the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank,
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  The bidding under Part A.1 above with respect to the
acquisition of hardware equipment and software application
necessary for the implementation of the system referred to in
Part B.3 of the Project may be carried out through a two-step
procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, hardware
equipment and software application shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Uruguay may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
Page  15
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list
of potential suppliers broad enough to assure competitive
prices (which list is to include all suppliers when there is
only limited number) and in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
    For contracts (under this Part C.1) referred to in Part D.1
(a) below, the Borrower shall prior to inviting bids, furnish
to the Bank for its approval, the list mentioned herein.
2.  Hardware equipment and software application estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,300,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of at least
three suppliers (local or foreign from at least three different
countries) eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards andfinal contracts:
 
    (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded under Parts
A.1 and C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants
Page  16
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods referred to in Parts A.1 and C.1 of
Section I of this Schedule.
1.  Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting
bids, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with
local bidders.
2.  The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract
award.
3.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
4.  There will not be prescribed minimum numbers of bids to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
5.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their
bidding documents with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite
of bidding.
6.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local
personnel, except for unskilled personnel.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly
govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in
Section II of this Schedule.
1.  Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
participating in the selection process, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.  Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in
a short list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of
reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
Page  17
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
Parts of the
Project\0cExpected Starting
Date of Certain
Parts of the
Project - not later
than Expected
Completion Date of
Certain Parts
of the Project -
not later than
                         \0cA.2\0c7 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cA.3 (a)\0c18 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cA.3 (b)\0c22 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cA.3 (c)\0c18 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cA.3 (d)\0c22 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cA.3 (e)\0c25 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cB.2 (a)\0c16 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cB.2 (b)\0c25 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cB.3 (a)\0c1 month after the
Effective Date\0c12         months after the Effective Date\0c
                          B.3 (b)\0c25 months after the
Effective Date\0c         -\0cC.1 (d)\0c
                        -\0c48 months after
the Effective Date       \0cC.2 (a)\0c
                        -\0c24 months after
the Effective Date       \0cC.2 (c)\0c
                        -\0c51 months after
the Effective Date
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $800,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until an aggregate
amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Page  18
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
          (b)   (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account,
                        the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                        requests for deposits into the Special
                        Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                        specify.
                (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                        request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                        Bank the documents and other evidence
                        required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                        Schedule for the payment or payments in
                        respect of which replenishment is
                        requested. On the basis of each such
                        request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                        Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                        and deposit into the Special Account such
                        amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                        and as shall have been shown by said
                        documents and other evidence to have been
                        paid out of the Special Account for
                        eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
          (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
          (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to
the Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
          (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
          (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
Page  19
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
          (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
          (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
          (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
