Page  1
November 16, 1998
His Excellency Luis Mosca 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Colonia 1089 Montevideo, Uruguay
Re:  URUGUAY:  Health Sector Development Project - Loan No. 3855-UR
 Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated April 28, 1995 entered into between 
República Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), as amended.
In response to the Borrower’s request dated March 1998 to restructure the 
Project in order to permit the transferring to the Director of each of the four public 
hospitals, selected by the Borrower, administrative, managerial and financial 
responsibilities for purposes of improving the efficiency and the quality of the 
health services provided by MSP to the poor and uninsured, the Bank hereby agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 1.02 Unless the context otherwise requires, the general terms 
defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meaning therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
  ‘ASSE’ means the Administration of Public Health Services within 
MSP 
(Administración de los Servicios de Salud del Estado); 
(b)
‘BROU’ means the Bank of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay (Banco 
de la 
República Oriental del Uruguay), a state-owned bank of the Borrower;
(c)
‘Eligible Professional’ means a professional employed by any 
entity which 
provides health services within the Borrower's territory who meets 
the criteria set forth in  the Implementation Manual in order to be benefited by a 
scholarship under Part B.4 of the 
Project;
(d)
‘Implementation Manual’ means the manual for the implementation of 
the Project 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
(e)
‘Legal Framework’ means the Borrower's legal framework for the 
health sector, 
including, inter alia:  (i) Law No. 9.202 dated January 12, 1934; 
(ii) Law No. 15.903 dated  November 10, 1987; (iii) Decree Law No. 15.181 dated August 
21, 1981; and (iv) the 
regulations to such laws, as such laws and 
regulations have been amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
(f)
‘Management Services Arrangement’ means any of the arrangements 
referred to in 
Section 3.01(e) of this Agreement;
(g)
‘MEF’ means the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de 
Economía y 
Finanzas) of the Borrower;
(h)
‘MSP’ means the Ministry of Public Health (Ministerio de Salud 
Pública) of the 
Borrower;
(i)
‘Peso Uruguayo’ means the currency of the Borrower;
(j)
‘PCU’ means the Project coordination unit established pursuant to 
Executive 
Decree No. 559/993 dated December 8, 1993, duly published in the Official 
Gazette (Diario 
Oficial No. 25956), referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
Page  2
(k)
‘Pilot Hospital’ means a public hospital within the jurisdiction 
of  MSP to be 
selected by ASSE in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Bank.”;
(l)
‘Project Account’ means the account referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
‘Project Preparation Advance’ means the project preparation 
advance granted by 
the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Agreement Letter dated 
March 24, 1993, duly 
countersigned by the Borrower's representative on 
April 1, 1993, as amended by the Amendment 
Letter dated December 7, 1993, duly 
countersigned by the Borrower's representative on 
December 22, 1993; and 
(n)
‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement.
2.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows: “Section 2.03. The Closing 
Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The 
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”.
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“ Section 3.01. (a)    The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end: (i) through MSP, 
shall carry out Parts A.1, A.3, A.4, B and C of the 
Project; and (ii) through ASSE shall 
carry out Part A.2 of the Project, all 
in accordance with MEF's economic and financial 
policies, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, 
technical, environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the 
Project.
 
(b)
 Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the  Borrower shall:
(i)
make available each year, until the completion of the 
Project, promptly 
as needed in Pesos Uruguayos, as counterpart 
funds for the Project, the 
following amounts:
Counterpart Funds for the
Project (in Dollars Equivalent
as of the first day of each year of
Year
Project Implementation)
1995
$1,600,000
1996
$2,500,000
1997
$3,500,000
1998
$2,400,000
1999
$2,400,000;
(ii)
not later than thirty days prior to the date in which the 
Borrower's 
budget related to the health sector is presented to 
the Borrower's 
Congress each year (with the exception 
of 1995), furnish to the Bank, 
for its review, a copy of such 
section of the budget in order to 
determine if the 
amount of counterpart funds for the year in question 
referred to 
in (i) herein have been included; and
(iii)
within thirty days after the date in which the Borrower's 
budget 
related to the health sector is approved each 
year, furnish to the Bank 
a copy of such approved budget, 
including a copy of the approved budget 
for 1995.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the 
Borrower shall: 
Page  3
(i)
open, and thereafter operate and maintain in BROU, an 
account (the 
Project Account) under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
for purposes of depositing in such 
account the Borrower's counterpart 
funds for the 
implementation of the Project; and 
(ii) 
maintain in the Project Account, at all times during Project                       
implementation, a positive balance of not less than $100,000 
equivalent.
(d)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
implementation 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to include, inter 
alia: (i) the criteria to be 
met by the Eligible Professionals (under Part B.4 of 
the Project) and the minimum terms and 
conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the 
scholarships to be granted to each Eligible 
Professionals; and (ii) the 
expected outcomes of the Project, the guidelines and the 
performance and 
monitoring indicators to be followed by the Borrower, through MSP, in the 
carrying out of the Project. 
(e)
For purposes of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter 
in an arrangement (the Management Services Arrangement) with the Director 
of each Pilot 
Hospital under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.”.
4.
Section 3.07 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through MSP, shall not later than December 31, 
1999 complete an 
evaluation of the implementation of the pilot program 
referred to in Part A.2 of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MSP, shall sixty days prior to the date of 
the mid-term  review referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, for 
its review and comments during such mid-term review, a draft 
health sector strategy. Such 
draft strategy shall take into account, inter alia, 
the experience from the execution of 
Part A.2 of the Project as of the date 
of presentation of such draft strategy to the Bank.
(c)
Based on the discussions, and comments, if any, provided by the 
Bank to the 
Borrower during the mid-term review and subsequent supervision missions 
with respect to the 
document referred to in paragraph (b) above, the Borrower, 
through MSP, shall not later than 
March 31, 2000 prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a final health sector strategy.”. 
5.
Paragraph (b) of Section 3.08 is hereby amended by replacing the date “March 31, 
1998” by the date  “June 30, 1999”.
6.
Paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 is hereby amended to read as follows: “(b)
that 
any Management Services Arrangement or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
assigned, suspended, terminated, abrogated, waived or not enforced so as to materially 
and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out Part A.2 of the Project.”.
7.
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended as set forth in 
Annex A to 
this Amendment Letter.
(b)
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,200,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (2) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 31, 1994; and
Page  4
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and  (2) 
(a) set forth 
in the table of paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) at least 
three Management Services  Arrangements have been signed by the parties thereto; and 
(ii) the Borrower has furnished to 
the Bank evidence, acceptable to the Bank, 
that the Management Service Arrangements referred 
to in subparagraph  (i) above 
have been duly approved by the Minister of MSP.”.
(c)
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis  of statements of expenditure for such expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) hardware, 
medical equipment and software application  estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent; 
(b) the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent; and  (c) the employment of individuals 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.”. 
8.
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended as set forth in Annex B to this 
Amendment Letter.
9.
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
Part A.3  of Section I of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as 
follows:
“3. To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, hardware, medical 
equipment 
and software application shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to 
cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more.”.
(b)
Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“3. Hardware, medical equipment and software application estimated to 
cost less than 
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the 
equivalent of $1,600,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations obtained from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.”. 
10.
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is hereby deleted. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this Amendment Letter and the enclosed counterpart letter. Upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully  executed original of this Amendment Letter, the amendments set forth herein 
will become effective as of the date first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna Alexander 
Director 
Country Management Unit Argentina, Chile and Uruguay 
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
Luis Mosca
Page  5
Date: /s/ December 7, 1998
ANNEX A
“SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency and the quality 
of the health services provided by MSP to the poor and uninsured; and (b) to foster 
the institutional development of the public health sector in the Borrower's territory 
through: (i) the improvement of the regulatory framework and the information base for 
decision-making; (ii) the selective development of human resources; and (iii) the 
rationalization of epidemiological health sector priorities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Contracting of MSP's provision of health services
1.
Carrying out of a review of national and international experience with respect 
to the decentralization and contracting out of the provision of health services.
2.
Carrying out of a pilot program consisting, inter alia, of transferring to the 
Director of each Pilot Hospital administrative, managerial and financial 
responsibilities as provided in the corresponding Management Services Arrangement. 
3.
Strengthening of the management of Pilot Hospitals (including the acquisition 
and utilization of equipment and provision of training required therefor). 
4.
Design and implementation of  a system to evaluate the pilot program referred to 
in Part A.2 above.
Part B:
Institutional Development
1.
Carrying out of a review of the public health regulatory framework for purposes 
of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of the pilot program referred to in Part 
A.2 of the Project. 
2.
Design the institutional reorganization of the public health sector in order to 
strengthen MSP's role in regulating and financing the provision of health services. 
3.
(a)
Design of a public health sector management information system; and (b) 
implement the system referred to in paragraph (a) above in the Pilot Hospitals.
4.
Strengthening of the technical and management capacity of health sector 
professionals within the Borrower's territory through the provision of scholarships to 
Eligible Professionals.
Part C:
Health Service
1.
(a) Carrying out of a review of  international experience in the definition of 
disease priorities and the establishment of the cost-effective public health programs; 
(b) carrying out of a national  global burden of disease study; (c) development of new 
medical protocols for the provision of health services in basic areas to be applied in 
the private and public sectors; (d) application of global burden of disease and cost 
of effective methodologies in the Borrower’s public hospitals, including the Pilot 
Hospitals; and (e) carrying out of a review of the Borrower’s public health sector 
programs. 
2.
Carrying out of a program to evaluate the quality of health services consisting, 
inter alia, of: (a) the design of quality evaluation systems to be implemented in the 
Pilot Hospitals; (b) the design and development of a nationwide provider accreditation 
system for public and private institutions, including the implementation of such 
system within the Borrower's territory; and (c) the evaluation of the impact of the 
Page  6
implementation of the systems referred to in (a) and (b) herein. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.”.
