Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
. 4X - Co
Report Nt. P-4055-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEPNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt300 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
May 2, 1985
is docut      sited distributi  and may be used by recipienft only in the performance of
their official dutie  Us cotests may not otherwise be dislosed widibot Would Bank autherozati,n.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =  Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$101.8                  = US$1.00 (1984 average)
Col$129.84                 = US$1.00 (exchange rate on
April 17, 1985)
Col$1                      = US$0.0077 (exchange rate on
April 17, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR           Banco de la Republica (Colombian Central Bank)
CERT         Certificado de Reembolso Tributario (Tax Reimbursement
Certificate)
DANE         Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
(National Bureau of Statistics)
DNP          Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
INCOMEX      Instituto de Comercio Exterior (Institute of Foreign
Trade)
JM           Junta Monetaria (Monetary Board)
PROEXPO      Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion
Fund)
PV           Plan Vallejo (Import Duty Drawback System for Exporters)
PV Jr.       Plan Vallejo Junior (Import Duty Drawback System Applicable
to Occasional Exporters)
SIEX         Sistema de Importaciones para Exportaciones
(System of Imports for Exports)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i -
COLOMBIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Colombia
Amount:         US$300 million equivalent.
Terms:           17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed loan would support the first phase of the
Government's trade policy adjustment program. The immediate
objective of the program is to support an outward looking
development strategy by introducing policy reforms to re-
orient the economy towards export promotion. Specific
measures have already been taken within the context of a
medium-term adjustment program to achieve these objectives;
others will be implemented over the next twelve months to
reform trade policies by: (i) reorienting export policies so
as to reduce the discretionary element and provide automa-
ticity and uniformity of access to incentives and foreign
exchange in order to promote the free trade status of the
exporter; (ii) adopting a program of elimination of export
restrictions; (iii) initiating a program of elimination of
import prohibitions and quantitative restrictions and a
reduction of tariff dispersion and levels; (iv) improving the
administrative mechanisms of trade management; and (v) formu-
lating an Action Program of trade reform for the longer
term. The program is described in the Government's Policy
Statement on Economic Adjustment. The foreign exchange
provided by the loan will be used to finance general imports
of industrial and agricultural inputs and raw materials for
exporting firms and several studies related to export incen-
tives, export promotion, external debt management and budget
programming and planning. The immediate benefits of the
program would be an improvement in the net balance of pay-
ments contribution of the tradeables sectors, and the
strengthening of external lenders and investors' confidence
in Colombian growth prospects. The risks of the program and
of export performance relate to assessing the length and
difficulty of the adjustment process, domestic pressures
against the continued implementation of the program, delays
in completing export-oriented petroleum and coal projects,
uncertainties in the external environment and export
This docuient has a resbicted ditbution and may be used by recpients only in the pefomance of
toeficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdcod without World Bank autborization



- ii -
prospects, destabilizing capital flows which are the result
of illegal transactions, and the possibility of the further
straining of Colombia's financial sector which could affect
the commitment to import liberalization. These rtsks are
expected to be reduced by DMF monitoring of the program
through special arrangements, by Bank monitoring in the
context of the Loan, and by assurances obtained from the
commercial banks, on the basis of the Loan and the related
monitoring, regarding the availability of financing required
for 1985 and 1986, including the maintenance of trade credit
lines.
Estimat-d
Disbursements: The loan would be disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche of US$150 million would be available for
disbursement at the time of loan effectiveness; the second
tranche of US$150 million is expected to be released six
mouths later, on the basis of a favorable assessment of the
economic program and the direction of policy, and the
implementation of specific trade policy actions.
Disbursements for the entire loan are expected to be
completed within 12 months of loan effectiveness.
Appraisal
Report:       This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
TPADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$300 million in support
of its program of trade policy adjustment and export diversification. The
loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. This report reflects the major findings of a
mission which visited Colombia in December 1984. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
arly 1950s. From a largely rural and agricultural base, the economy has
e--olved into one that is more integrated, with a greater urban-industrial and
services orientation today. The growing economic activity, rapid rural-urban
migration, together with the increased participation of women in the labor
force and expanded public services, have been instrumental in reducing
poverty and improving income distribution over time. Financial aun capital
markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. State enterprises are few, follow on the whole adequate pricing
policies, and many have some form of private sector participation. The
country's energy balance has been changing in recent years and Colombia is
expected to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and to become
increasingly an exporter of thermal coal.
4.        In the 1950s and early 1960s, development policy favored import
substitution supported by high tariff protection. By the mid-1960s, the
prospects for further import substitution were substantially reduced, and the
country was confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact
that economic activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by
developments in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint,
beginning in 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-looking development



- 2-
strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion policies,
including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax rebates and
other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs
somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of raising effi-
ciency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in reliev-
ing the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and employment.
However, by 1974 the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused
primarily by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of
the Central Government's deficit.
A. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In late 1974, the Government introduced measures to correct policy
weaknesses. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy was
subjected to strong inflationary pressures from a sharp increase in world
coffee prices. The increased coffee export receipts, together with some
official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turn-
around in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Unemployment fe]l substantially,
both in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee
tax revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about
1% of GDP during the 1976-78 period and, by the end of 1979, net official
international reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about
12 months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government sought to control inflation by
maintaining high reserve requirements and expanding controls over credit
thereby reducing, in real terms, the financing available to the private
sector through the official capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to the increasing restraint on aggregate demand and troublesome
financial market distortions, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust
their program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and, in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates
on certificates of deposit-and on lending therefrom--were freed from
controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authori-
ties further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy of not
expanding the subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in
excess of the resources captured from private savings for this purpose. The
effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP
growth decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960,
unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
B. Recent Economic Developments
8.        In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse, and the
problems continued through 1983. Real GDP growth, which had slowed down to
2.5% in 1981, fell to about 1% on average in 1982 and 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced



- 3 -
fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on
account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to
increase, particularly in manufacturing. Unemployment reached almost 14Z of
the labor force at the end of the year, up from about 7X at the end of 1981.
Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the year, down
from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and it increased to an
average of about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly
from a drop in exports in real terms: major reasons were the slowdown in
world demand, a major devaluation and import restrictions in Venezuela-a
major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction of Colombia's coffee export
quota in the International Coffee Agreement to significantly below the 1981
coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$1.8
billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent to about 6 months of
imports of goods and non-factor services. On the fiscal side, a slowdown in
revenue growth, together with increased current expenditures resulting from
automatic transfers and large infrastructure investments in energy and
transport led to growing deficits: the overall Central Government cash
deficit grew from 2.1Z of GDP in 1980 to 4.1% in 1983, while that of the
consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, expand and diversify non-coffee exports, and resume economic growth.
The rate of peso levaluation was accelerated; the housing construction
industry was provided with incentives to mobilize an increasing amount of
resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors was expanded.
Temporary import restrictions were introduced to arrest the falling foreign
exchange reserves, with a view to being lifted once the real exchange rate
improved and exports responded to this incentive.
11.       The Government also adopted measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
and ease distortions and restrictions in the financial system. While the
thrust of these measures was in the right direction, they were insufficient
to reverse the deteriorating trends. At the same time, the country began to
be hurt by economic problems of its neighboring trading partners and by the
tight internatioral capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American
countries, has not had a debt problem because of the high share of official
debt in total debt outstanding and the relatively favorable term structure of
such debt. NevertAeless, a reduction in the credit lines and medium-term
loans to complete ozfoin r          c=-_ributed to further declines in foreign
exchange reserves in 1984 and to strains in the financial system.
12.       As a result, a reversal of the deteriorating trends has begun to
take place beginning in 1984, with a resumption of growth in manufacturing
and non-coffee agriculture and an expansion in exports. At the same time
Government policy has focused on demand management, fiscal and monetary
restraint, and acceleration of the exchange rate devaluation; it has also
taken steps to improve the profitability of the commercial banking system's
operations and resolve the external debt problems of the private sector. In
1984, real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the unemployment rate fell to 13% of
the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on
average. Total merchandise exports grew at over 16% in nominal terms, and
the current account deficit in the balance of payments was reduced by about
US$1 billion to 5Z of GDP. The losses in foreign exchange reserves, which



-4-
had accelerated during the first half of 1984, were reduced during the second
half, and reserves at year end remained at about USS1.8 billion, equivalent
to about 4 months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM AND THE EXPORT SECTOR
A. The Context of Policy Change
13.       An analysis of the economic developments since 1970 and associated
external and domestic factors is set out in Table 1. The period 1970-75
witnessed export-led growMth based on outward-looking policies initiated in
the late 1960s and continued in the early 1970s. Solid growth was maintained
in the latter half of the 1970s, largely by the coffee boom. The downturn
in non-coffee exports and the balance of payments difficulties in the early
1980s resulted from external and domestic factors. The tightening of the
international capital market and Latin America's economic and debt problems
had a major deleterious effect on Colombia's immediate prospects: net
capital inflows declined in 1983; this continued into 1984.
14.       Domestic policies also contributed to the problems in the 1980s.
On the whole, five interrelated policy areas may be associated with the
difficulties in the 1980s which are elaborated below: (i) fiscal policy,
including the public sector investment program and domestic resource mobili-
zation efforts; (ii) monetary policy, including Central Bank credit creation
to finance the Government budget; (iii) exchange rate and export policy; (iv)
import policy, especially the availability of imported inputs for exports;
and (v) external borrowing.
15.       The fiscal and monetary problems can be traced to an imbalance
between growth in current revenues and total expenditures, and the financing
of a growing deficit with Central Bank's monetary emission. Between 1978 and
1983, current revenues rose by about 24Z p.a., while total expenditures rose
by 36% p.a., and a modest overall surplus of the Central Government in the
late 1970s had by 1983 turned into a deficit of about 4% of GDP.
16.       The exchange rate appreciation began in the second half of the
1970s although its balance of payments effect at that time was hidden by the
coffee boom. During 1975-82, the Col$/US$ real exchange rate declined
against the dollar by an estimated 222 compared to 1975 in spite of a
crawling peg policy (the 1975 real exchange rate was the highest achieved in
the past 25 years). Compared to a basket of currencies of the country's
fifteen most important trading partners (constituting about 85% of non-coffee
trade), the appreciation in 1982 compared to 1975 was about 25Z.
17.       Imports grew significantly in absolute terms during the latter half
of the 1970s, but as a proportion of GDP,they were only marginally higher in
the early 1980s compared to the 19709. However, the growth of imports-
partly as a result of energy investment requirements-had become out of line
with export performance during 1981-83 contributing to the sharp worsening of
the current account deficit. During 1983-84, import reduction in nominal and
real terms was necessitated by the balance of payments problem, and reduced
imports, particularly of inputs needed for exports, has had negative effects
on performance. Additionally, the external capital constraints of the 1980s
have made a scaling down of the external borrowing program necessary.



-5 -
Table 1: ULGM   AL- BMXIC  RWCWU AND AD.DW, 970-1986
Pecrd of te 1970b             Ealy 198(                        Enmad.c   P 
amwc-p        Gorff=    Fccalc        h&glmdtig of     Umeghmdrg of
Groith        BO=      St-          Pi  CO             Ads t _         pd  AdM        it
1970-75      1976-80  1981-83           1983              1984 e    1985 p        1986 p
I. Pefomoce Idcators
Ave  CGuth Rate a/
GP, cO5tUt primS            5.8          5.5       1.3             LO                3.1       2.0           3.0
pEtu (Isws), eostat    5.4               7.0      -6.3           -12                 9.4      10.1           7.7
price
Coffee                    (4.4)      (11L4)    (-&3)            (2.6)            {14.2)      (1.1)        (1.1)
N.,ofe                    (7.7        (3.9)    (-1.2)          (-2.8)            (lO.S)    (16.1)        (13.4)
spxt  (am). anse            0Q6         10.2       6.2          -10.1              -45        43l2.1
TnflatiM  (CPI,vezr)      17.1         24.5      24.9            19.8              16.4      22.0         20.0
Ak""g, Rto (tM)
Qxrrent Acc=iGDP           -2.9          1.5      -65            -7.3              -52        -4.3         -3.5
Year-eid Pser    (U$m)      36D        3,000     4,533           3,079             1,796      1,796        2,129
tlbat' Iia-s of GlES   (2.8)         (10.0)     (8.7)           (6.4)             (4.2)      (4.2)        (4.7)
TotaL ebt Sernc Ratio    22.7           14.7      35.1            40.6              44.3      43.1         41.3
-jbic Debt Service Raio    13.2         10.4      19.6            23.7              28.5      32.0         33.0
Total InvesuretGP          1L9          1&5       20.2            19.4              18.9      185           l&5
I. Extemmal Factors
Real cblfee Prie
(1970-100)                   84           33        88             89                98         93           98
Met Oaptal kila  (S$u)C/  284           543      1,699           1,014               587     1,442         1,530
M h   Rate d            2.1         3.6        3.3            2.3               4.7       3.0           3.0
Mf. namcPoc
Pate (=Ml19709 - lOD)e/    89           85        75              75                82       100            ..f/
MoneyBse     rth             23           35        18              14               18         22           24
Ceotral Gaenmit
Overalt Dflit/E            L 1         0.4       3.9             4.1               4.5       2.4           2.0
verll P.Sector D fidui   3.0             5.5       6.8             7.0               7.3       4.6       3.0-3.5
tocal Twprts/GP              15           15        16              15               14         15            16
e - pielimny estimn
p - jEojeetis
a/ Note tint ava  grith rate inch   the Sraz  in tie end years.
i ROU911y cGs=t 31 nOmIna US dollar
el Inul g erro  and amissm.
F Yor 1970 - 1975 fge, gmrth rare for 1973 - 1975 was ta4lu  frm Il's wa2d Ecamadc              1982; 1975-83 wee drived
from Nd Bra's. World Devklout  leport, 1982; and 1984-6 ae frmC   Outlook.
e. 1he calculatis use 1975-O4 estiasted rwcaffee t      e ets; the 1983 sid 1984 figures utill  estinted weighted
avra  exdbm   rates and irilatim  ras  for Vsmala.
f/ Maineain rel exchane rate aid mevie its adequay in via, of blie of paymts evidenc.
' #  Crl G    errunt plhs decentraliaid aencie.
Source: Hinistry of Finance, IMF and World Bank estimates



-6-
18.       The abovementioned problems were highlighted in the Bank's 1983 and
1984 economic reports. Recognizing their importance, the Government in the
1983 Consultative Group Meeting committed itself to undertaking corrective
action and initiated reforms. However, the degree and speed of the subse-
quent response was insufficient. The reasons included: the level of
reserves was still high; domestic policies in place had over the long-term
achieved solid economic growth; the pluralistic nature of policymaking
lengthened the decision process; and the Government was slow to appreciate
the full indirect impact on Colombia of the Latin American economic and debt
crisis.
19.       By the first quarter of 1984, the need for stronger domestic policy
adjustments had become clear. The loss of reserves continued in 1984.
Although there was a stabilization in its trend by the latter part of the
year, the reserve level had begun to become worrisome, and the attitude of
traditional commercial lenders towards Colombia was hardening. By the third
quarter of 1984, the Administration consolidated its position, and began to
carry out a significant adjustment program.
20.       The adjustment program addresses the five areaz mentioned earlier.
It represents the Government's commitment to stabilize the economy during
1985-86 and to re-establish a medium-term policy framework based on an
outward looking development strategy. The stabilization measures already in
place and planned for 1985-86 (see below) have been reviewed favorably by an
IIMF Article IV Consultation mission, and the related variables are expected
to be monitored by the IMF (para. 75).
B. The Medium-term Adjustment Program
21.       The 1985-86 policies represent a critical phase of the medium-term
program, in which stability would be achieved, permitting continuation of
modest growth as the economy is reoriented towards export promotion. Subse-
quently, the program would concentrate on reforming further the incentive
system in trade (paras. 41, 54-56). In agriculture, policies would stimulate
higher productivity and exports; and in the financial sec'or, they would
assist in the restructuring of commeLcial banks and industrial enterprises
and in the elimination of distortions which affect the profitability of the
financial system and the efficient allocation of credit.
22.       A good part of the adjustments have been in place, and some
positive results have already been obtained as can be seen in the changes
recorded in 1984 (Table 1). The deepening of adjustments during 1985-86 with
emphasis on external trade is consistent with modest growth in 1985-86 and
more rapid growth thereafter.
23.       The policy package concerns:  (i) further reductions in the expen-
diture-revenue gap of the public sector, including a scaling down of public
sector investments and improving their effectiveness, postponing long-gesta-
ting new projects, and maintaining prices of public utilities at appropriate
levels; (ii) slowdown in the credit expansion to the Government by the
Central Bank; (iii) full correction of the overvaluation in the real exchange
rate; (iv) liberalization of imports needed for exports; and (v) scaling down
external borrowing targets, 'Lowering the demand for external funds.
Described below is each of these elements as it has evolvcd recently and
would be further changed during 1985-86.



-7-
Fiscal Policy and Public Investment
24.       Income tax reforms were undertaken in late 1983 and followed up in
1984 by the change in the application of the sales tax to a value added
basis. In addition, utility tariffs and real estate taxes were increased;
the gasoline price was raised 15%, and a 25% temporary surcharge on import
duties was introduced. Central Government current revenues rose by some 26%
in 1984. However, notwithstanding an employment freeze, expenditures also
increased at the fairly high rate of about 28%, reflecting in part the
excessive wage increases granted in early 1984. The Central Government's
overall cash deficit consequently increased further to some 4.5% of GDP, most
of which was financed by Central Bank credit.
25.       The 1985-86 program includes additional revenue measures which were
approved by Congress in December 1984.  These comprise measures to eliminate
deductions in the income tax, a broader base for the value-added tax, an
increase in stamp taxes and a temporary (by law) 8% import tax, which
together should result in an additional ColS55.5 billion (1.2% of GDP) in
revenues during 1985.  Current revenues are projected to increase by about
50% in 1985. (Further measures totalling Col$17 billion in revenue collec-
tions, in 1985 on an annualized basis, which were presented to Congress in
April 1985, are not included in the above estimation.)
26.       Government salaries approved for 1985 imply a reduction by about
10 on average in real terms. Public sector subsidies in transport have been
reduced and a scaling down of the investment program has begun. Central
Government current expenditures are expected to grow in nominal terms at 25%
in 1985 and 20% in 1986 compared to about 30% p.a. on average in recent
years. Additional expenditure measures, envisaged to be approved by Congress
include: (i) a deceleration in Central Government transfers to local govern-
ments; (ii) streamlining of decentralized agencies; and (ill) tightening of
administrative controls on expenditures. The overall cash deficit of the
Central Government is projected to decline to 2.4% of GDP in 1985 and to some
2% in 1986. Together with the scaling down of the public investment program
and real increases in revenues of public enterprises (in part as a result of
tariff policy), the overall public sector deficit is projected to decline
from an estimated 7.3% of GDP in 1984 to 4.6% in 1985 and 3.0% in 1986.
27.      The public investment program has been scaled down and reoriented
towards quick-yielding investments, export and import competing activities;
more intensive use of existing facilities; and increased resource mobiliza-
tion. The revised program, which constrains public sector investment during
1985-86 to about US$3.1 billion p.a., or 9.4% of GDP-compared to US$3.5
billion p.a. during 1983-84--consists largely of projects which are already
in execution or for which loans have been contracted. Only a few high
priority projects are to be initiated in 1985-86. More than three quarters
of the program consists of projects associated with external financing. The
investment program is dominated by the mining and power sectors. The mining
investments of US$ 1.8 billion include ECOPETROL's (the petroleum company)
petroleum production and development program in association with foreign
partners and CARBOCOL's (the coal company) ongoing El Cerrejon Coal project,



-8-
a joint venture with EXXON. Both will contribute to a significant increase
in export earnings from 1987 onwards. Public investments in sectors other
than mining would be reduced from 7.4% of GDP during 1983-84 to 6.7% during
1985-86.
Monetary Policy
28.       A Central Government overall cash deficit of about Col$108 billion
on average during 1985-86 (compared to Col$163 billion in 1984) will allow
for a dramatic reduction in monetary financing to the public sector from the
high 1984 level of about Col$150 billion. Central Bank financing of the
deficit will be kept to about Col$45 billion during 1985-86 annually, rising
modestly in nominal terms thereafter. This reduction in credit to the public
sector would permit the banking system to expand credit to the private sector
in line with the growth in nominal GDP during the period. Such an outcome
would reduce the pressure on the growth of the monetary base and thus of
monetary expansion and it would be a critical element of the program during a
time period when no major fall in reserves can be sustained. With a year-end
level of reserves at about US$1.8 billion in 1985 (i.e. the same level as at
the end of 1984) and around US$2.1 billion at the end of 1986, a fiscal
policy as discussed above and a moderate expansion of credit to the private
sector, the growth in the monetary base can be kept to around 22-24%
annually. Assuming no significant changes in the money multiplier and
velocity, the growth in money supply would be in line with the expected
growth of nominal GDP.
Export Policy
29.       With an acceleration in the crawl in 1984, the peso made the
largest estimated real depreciation since the crawling peg was established in
1967. Even so, relative to a mid-1970s base of 100, the 1984 average level
of the exchange rate remained appreciated by roughly 20% in real terms. This
calculation, however, does not account for the subs:antially increased export
tax rebates or increased import protection since the base period which have
served to offset a part of the peso overvaluation for tradeable goods. The
Government plans to restore the mid-1970s rate in real terms in 1985 on aver-
age and review its adequacy on the basis of changing economic conditions and
evidence of balance of payments performance. Towards that end, the Govern-
ment has accelerated the crawl.
30.       The current export incentive system utilizes three major instru-
ments for export promotion: (i) import duty exemptions to eligible export-
ers; (ii) tax rebates; and (iii) credit financing at positive real rates of
interest. The current system has many weaknesses which affect its effi-
ciency (para. 44). These will be addressed in the context of the loan
(paras. 46-48). In addition, a number of products are subject to export
restrictions, whose elimination is also intended in the context of the loan
(Annex IV).
Import Policy
31.       The rapid fall in reserves during 1983-84 led the Government to put
in place more quantitative restrictions on imports and a strict foreign
exchange budget. Concomittantly, the Government has intensified its ef'orts
to promote exports. The Government intends to undertake a phased elimina-



tion of import restrictions, beginning with automatic access to inputs and
intermediate goods for exports (paras. 49-51). In addition, recourse to
tariff protection has also increased; average nominal tariff rates were
fairly stable during 1979-81. They were increased in 1983, and again
substantially in 1984.  Unlike in previous years, the current legal structure
is characterized by a sizeable incidence of fairly high rates and disper-
sion. These characteristics of the legal tariff structure are meant to be
temporary and future policy actions are intended to reduce dispersion and
levels (paras. 52-53).
Foreign Borrowing
32.       A critical objective of the Government program concerns the stabi-
lization of reserve levels. Major support for the tradeable good sectors is
expected from exchange rate adjustments in 1985; and medium-term export and
import projections indicate a steady decline in the current account deficit
(pare. 34). A reversal in private capital inflows is also required: gross
disbursements from new commercial bank loans during 1985 of about US$535
million,-primarily for project financing--will be needed to stabilize
reserves in 1985. An agreement has been reached in principle between the
Government and the commercial banks on 1985-86 financing, and this program
has the endorsement of the IMF's management. The increase in the commercial
banks' net exposure to Colombia in this period is envisaged to be small.
33.       The projected pattern of gross disbursements Indicates an increas-
ing dependence in relative terms on official sources of finance (multilateral
institutions, bilateral development agencies and export credit agencies) in
recognition of the country exposure constraints of external commercial
banks. More than half of the new commitments and disbursements during 1985-
86, including the additional commercial bank resources, would be for the
productive sectors. In order to support the expansion of the trade sector,
it is also envisaged that the country will continue to have access to its
short-term credit lines from its -major external bank creditors at least at
levels prevailing at the end of 1984, roughly US$1.5 billion.
C. Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
34.       With a successful adjustment during 1985-86, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade will be reasonably good. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to average US$1.3
billion per year during 1985-86, equivalent to about 3.9% of GDP. The
deficit is projected to be financed largely by increasing disbursements of
public loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period,
net official inter-ational reserves would have been maintained at a satisfac-
tory level of about four and a half months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP
of 2.5% during 1985-86.
35.       Total investment would have to be maintained at about 18.5% of GDP
to complete energy and mining projects, while utilization of existing
industrial capacity increases; and, to avoid too large an increase in foreign
indebtedness, gross domestic savings w. 'ld need to average about 18% of GDP
compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public sector generating a
significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986, real GDP growth



- 10 -
should resume at near historical rates, about 5% per year on average. The
current account deficit should also improve rapidly from 1987 as a result of
increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional exports (particularly
crude petroleum and coal).
36.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about US$5.3 billion
for the 1985-86 period, for an annual average requirement of about US$2.6
billion. Net foreign investment is expected to account for US$750 million
during 1985-86, most of which would flow into the country to complete
existing energy projects. This should provide about 14% of the gross exter-
nal financing required. Of the remaining 86% (US$4.5 billion) about US$3.5
billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured from multi-
lateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, of the order of US$1
billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from commercial banks mainly to
complete petroleum and coal projects for export.
37.       At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to
US$8.1 billion, equivalent to 22.3% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this
external debt was 22.5% which is expected to increase somewhat during 1985-86
reflecting the rapid disbursement of the proposed loan. The public debt
service ratio in 1984 was 28.5% and is expected to peak at about 33% in 1986
and then decline gradually to 30% in 1990. The World Bank's share in public
debt service is expected to be less than 23% during 1985-86. With sound
economic and financial management and the development of new export activ-
ities referred to above, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthi-
ness through and beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART III - THE TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVEPSIFICATION LOAN
A. Loan History
38.       The Bank's involvement in the area of trade policy and export
diversification has taken three forms: dialogue on trade and financial poli-
cies, assistance in developing major individual export activities, and sup-
port of key institutions in these subsectors. A Bank Industrial Sector
Mission which visited Colombia in August/September 1981 focussed on the
determinants of the export competitiveness of individual manufacturing sub-
sectors and on trade policies. These themes were pursued further by an
economic mission which visited Colombia in June/July 1982, and an agricul-
tural sector mission which was in the field in April/Miy 1983. The proposed
loan expands on the policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government of
Colombia in the area of trade policy.
39.       The proposed loan grew out of discussions with the Government
during 1984 on the policy measures required to correct the continuing balance
of payments deficits, to stabilize foreign exchange reserves, and to promote
export-oriented economic growth. The operation has been processed concur-
rently with the formulation of an effective program of adjustment, with the
proposed loan constituting an essential element of the financial package
which was presented to the leading commercial bank creditors of Colombia on



- 11 -
December 10, 1984. Assurances were obtained on April 18, 1985 that the
necessary financing would be available. The loan was appraised in November/
December, 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1985. The
Colombian delegation was led by Dr. Mauricio Cabrera, Director of Public
Credit, Ministry of Finance. Supplementary loan data are provided in Annex
III.
B. Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.       The objectives of the program are threefold: (i) to reorient export
policies so as to reduce the discretionary element and build in substantial
automaticity and uniformity in the access to incentives and to eliminate
restrictions to exporting, with a view to promoting export-oriented growth,
and effecting rapid improvements in the balance of payments. Given that
import liberalization constitutes an important element in an outward-oriented
development strategy, the loan also focuses on the rapid reduction of import
prohibitions and licences within the constraints posed by the program's
stabilization objectives. Moreover, given that nontariff barriers are a less
efficient instrument than tariffs, the program stresses a shift away from
quantitative restrictions to tariffs, the shift being combined with a policy
of reductions in tariff dispersion and in levels; (ii) to help formulate an
Action Program of trade policies for the longer term to be based on a more
detailed study of the impact of incentives on export performance and to be
implemented in a second phase of trade policy reforms and (iii) to help put
together a financial package in support of Colombian export activities which,
when buttressed by the assessments of economic performance associated with
the tranching of the loan, will foster the resumption of commercial bank
flows to Colombia.
41.       Progress towards the program's trade policy objectives will set the
stage for the program's second phase. This second phase will focus in the
context of the Action Program (paras. 54-56), on the expansion of free
imporLs and further rationalization of import controls, tariffs, tax rebates
and other iucentives to promote the free trade status of the exporter and
reduce biases against exports. These trade policy actions and a favorable
assessment of macropolicies would form the basis of a follow-up loan.
C. The Trade Policy Adjustment Program
42.       The program of trade policy reforms supported by the loan, is
presented in the Government's Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment (Annex
V). The measures subsumed by this program are described in detail in Annex
VI; the schedule for their implementation is summarized in Annex IV.
43.       The Export Incentive Package.  There are currently three major
instruments of export promotion. (i) Plan Vallejo (PV) provides access to
imports and import duty exemptions to established exporters. Until the
recent policy changes introduced in the context of the proposed loan, such
access was authorized on the basis of contracts between the exporter and
INCOMEX (Institute of Foreign Trade, responsible for authorizing import and
export activities). Under a variant, Plan Vallejo Junior, occasional
exporters obtain, subsequent to a first export, duty exemptions on second
time imports restricted to specific commodities and quantities. (ii) Tax
rebate incentives (CERTs) are equivalent to a certain percentage of the value



- 12 -
of exports and differentiated by export commodity. Whereas non-PV exporters
obtain CERTs on total export value, PV exporters obtain CERTs only on the
domestic value added component. (iii) PROEXPO (Export Promotion Fund)
credits are available at positive but below market real interest rates, for
pre-shipment, post-shipment and investment. PV exporters are currently not
eligible for PROEXPO credit for financing imported inputs.
44.       The system that prevailed until the recent reforms had several
weaknesses (Annex VI): the underlying rationale of the system (e.g., to move
towards free trade status in the production of exports so as to enable the
exporter to operate on a more competitive footing with international compe-
titors, and/or to enhance his profitability relative to production for the
domestic market) was unclear; access to incentives was not automatic; the
distribution of incentives was not uniform as between PV and non-PV
exporters; and the increasing reliance on tax rebates (CERTs) had large
fiscal costs. Moreover, while the strength of the PV scheme lay in requiring
PV exporters to secure prior access to foreign credit lines, the repayment
regulations requiring them to retain the foreign credit right through the
period of production and export, and to repay the credit only if, and when,
the foreign exchange proceeds of exports were remitted to the Banco de la
Republica (BR), rendered the PV system less attractive to foreign creditors.
45.       The recent reforms and others proposed under the loan seek to
remedy these weaknesses. The Government is committed to the retention of the
PV scheme. It has been in force for nearly thirty years, is well understood
by exporters and has succeeded in bringing increased amounts of exports
within its purview. The Government has rationalized the system by simpli-
fying operating procedures and intends to open up admission to the scheme
over time, as uniform access to incentives is gradually extended to all
exporters. For administrative convenience, exporters currently operating
outside the PV scheme are being grouped under a new System of Import-Export
(SIEX) complementary to PV, on the understanding that SIEX exporters who have
completed two rounds of exports will be allowed to move into the PV system.
46.       The major incentive reforms (Annex VI) adopted under thL loan, with
the objective of promoting uniformity of access to export incentives and to
move towards free trade status for the exporter are: (i) automatic access to
imports by all exporters on the basis of a viable program of export and
import requirements, a condition of effectiveness, (draft Operating Agree-
ment, Section 2.01(b) and draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)); (ii) as a
condition of effectiveness, automatic access to foreign exchange required for
the repayment of external credit lines or letters of credit used to initiate
the export process, at the time when repayment is due, through the cash
purchase of foreign exchange by the exporter (draft Loan Agreement, Sections
3.02(b) and 6.01(a)). Prior to second tranche release, existing regulations
stipulating minimum periods for the repayment of import financing will be
-mended to allow repayment by PV and SIEX exporters following the arrival of
imports into Colombia (draft Loan Agreement, para. 6 of Schedule 4); (iii) a
reduction in the dispersion of CERT rates across product groups. As a condi-
tion of second tranche release (draft Loan Agreement, para. 5 of Schedule 4),
CERT rates will be assessed only on the domestic value added component of
exports for both PV and SIEX exporters; at a later stage, CERT levels will be
reviewed as part of the Action Program (based on the results of an incentive
study to be completed during the first phase of the loan) and further reforms
considered with a view to offsetting indirect taxes; (iv) SIEX exporters will



- 13 -
be allowed to move autowatically into PV and gain automatic access to import
duty exemptions on the basis of a record of two rounds of export operations,
thereby removing the element of discretion inherent in previous INCOMEX
decisions regarding eligibility of exporters for PV (draft Operating Agree-
ment, Section 2.01(b)(iii)); and (v) removal of access to Lelow market rate
PROEXPO credits (Annex VI) for financing imported inputs by both PV and SIEX
exporters unless such financing is made available in line with prevailing
market terms and conditions (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
47.       Operational Reforms (draft Operating Agreement, Section 2.01(b))
INCOMEX administrative procedures for PV and SIEX exporters have been
simplified in the context of the loan through the replacement of formal
contracts by technical agreements on import/export programs between INCOMEX
and the exporter; the eschewing of pressure to buy Colombian; the simplifica-
tion and expediting of customs guara&ltee procedures and the introduction of
INCOMEX guarantees to ensure exports and prevent abuses of the privilege of
automatic access to imports; the inclusion and application of more uniform
procedures to indirect exporters and capital goods imports for exports; and
the drastic reduction of export clearance requirements by INCOMEX and other
Ministries. These reforms are likely to reduce significantly the time taken
for export/import approvals, registration and import licence appiovals from
more than two months to about twelve days (draft Operating Agreement,
Schedule), while at the same time widening the coverage of the incentive
scheme to include new and occasional exporters.
48.       The Removal of Export Restrictions.  Despite the Government's
stated commitment to exports, products falling under about 725 tariff posi-
tions are subject to export restrictions either of a quantitative or adminis-
trative nature. INCOMEX is concentrating on the elimination of export
restrictions/suspensions (about 400 positions) imposed on supposedly economic
grounds (protection of domestic consumers or producers); and then on the
removal/reduction of the remainder based on non-economic considerations.
Within the latter class INCOMEX is concentrating on those which do not derive
their validity from international agreements or other national imperatives
such as the country's security, health, natural resource endowment and
historical and cultural heritage. INCOMEX has already liberalized, in the
context of the loan, about 230 positions which fall eitber within its own
jurisdiction or require prior consultation with other Ministries. Included
among these were the most entrenched (economic) restrictions (on inter alia
cocoa, flour, oil seeds, cement, specific textile products, etc.) imposed on
domestic market grounds. INCOMEX is to institute a review process for the
remaining restrictions (165 economic and 333 non-economic) with a view to
liberalizing before second tranche as many of the remainder which appear to
the Bank and the Government to carry little current justification (draft Loan
Agreement, para. 4 of Schedule 4).
49.       Reduction of Import Controls.  Since non-tariff barriers to imports
impair allocative efficiency, are less efficient than tariffs, and were
imposed as a temporary means of foreign exchange control, the Government' is
committed to a program of reduction of quantitative restrictions, within the
constraints set by its stabilization objectives and progress towards the
maintenance of stable reserves. Emphasis is placed under the Loan, on the
removal of prohibitions (covering some 830 tariff positions, or 16.5% of the
total). Some 710 prohibited positions (about 86% of the total), equivalent
in value to about US$87 million, are to be moved to the prior licence list as



- 14 -
a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)):
of these 710 positions, about half (346 in number), representing about US$60
million in imports have already been moved out of the prohibited list. A
further 50 positions representing about US$80 million in imports, will be
moved to the prior licence list before second tranche release (draft Loan
Agreement, para. 2 of Schedule 4). With respect to the remainder, only about
1.4% of total tariff positions, INCONEX plans to initiate a thorough
product-by-product review so that barring a few exceptions, all imports not
potentially harmful to the State or to the population's health (weaponry,
drugs, etc.) are moved out of the prohibited list. It is estimated that
imports freed from prohibitions prior to the second tranche will represent a
value of approximately US$167 million; it is expected that an additional
US$28 million of prohibited imports will be allowed entry during 1985 on
account of regional agreements and re-export arrangements.
50.       The Government is also committed under the Loan to reducing, before
release of the second tranche, the share of imports subject to prior licences
(currently covering 83X of tariff positions) and, correspondingly to
increasing the share of imports under the free list to 23% of total tariff
positions from the present level of 0.52. Five hundred positions, or about
44% of the total number of tariff positions to be liberalized have already
been moved to the free list; another 19% will be liberalized as a condition
of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)); the remainder
will be moved prior to second tranche release (draft Loan Agreement, para. 1
of Schedule 4). In addition, all imports for exports (raw materials,
intermediates, and capital goods used primarily in export activity) will be
allowed automatic entry into Colombia (para. 46). Prior to the disbursement
of the secord tranche (draft Loan Agreement, para. 3 of Schedule 4),
agreement will be reached on actions directed towards liberalizing imports of
spare parts and maintenance items for productive machinery and equipment.
INCOMEX has also undertaken to refrain from controlling or determining prices
of imports under the free import regimes, unless there is significant
evidence of pricing irregularities practiced by importers (draft Operating
Agreement, Section 2.04).
51.       The share of free imports, including, inter alia, imports for
exports, delicenced imports, and imports under regional agreements or for use
in free trade zones, is expected to rise under the loan to 57% of the total
annual equivalent value of 1984 imports, compared to about 23% through
September 1984 (comprising imports under regional agreements, public sector
and PV imports). Moreover, the assurance of automatic access to imports for
exports will remove the costs associated with obtaining import licence
approvals. In addition, it has been agreed that additional liberalization
will be achieved by March 31, 1986, to raise the share of free imports to 63%
of the total annual equivalent value of 1985 imports (draft Loan Agreement,
para. 7 of Schedule 4). Moreover, the Government may undertake a program of
further rationalization of the import regime as part of the Action Program
formulated on the basis of the study of incentives and the associated review
of import licences (paras. 55-56).
52.       Import Tariff Levels and Structure.  Given the Government's inten-
tion to shift away from quantitative restrictions towards greater reliance on
tariffs, and the overriding -,eed to cut the Central Government's cash
deficit, the Government is unable to reduce immediately the contribution of



- 15 -
tariff collections to current revenues (about 15.6% in 1984). The initial
emphasis of tariff reform therefore has been to reduce tariff dispersion.
This and the associated objecrive of reducing the average tariff rate, have
been achieved prior to first tranche, by reducing peak tariff rates from over
2U0% to a maximum of 80%. The fiscal impact has been minimized by eliaina-
ting wherever possible ad hoc tariff discounts and exemptions not dictated by
regional agreements.
53.       Prior to the disbursement of the second tranche, agreement will be
reached on further reforms on the basis of an Action Program (draft Loan
Agreement, para. 7 of Schedule 4). A major objective of these reforms will
be to phase out the temoorary 25% import surcharge and the 8% import duty and
to reduce further the average level and dispersion of tariffs, so that, with
few exceptions, tariffs would fall within a specified tariff range. Such
action will be taken following the assessment of progress towards the
stabilization of reserves and the attainment of a favorable real exchange
rate, during the second phase of trade reforms to be initiated in 1986.
A MediumrTerm Action Program for Export Promotion
54.       The broad changes in the incentive system introduced under the
first two tranches of the Loan will lay the basis for improvements in
Colombia's interrational competitiveness and the profitability of exports
relative to production for the domestic market. Moreover, the Action Program
for which agreement will be obtained prior to second tranche disbursement,
will be based on a strong commitment to the country's future export strategy,
and on the results of the proposed Ministry of Finance study of export strat-
egy and the incentive system, and on PROEXPO/INCOMEX studies related to
export promotion (Part B of the Project, Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
55.       Adjusting the Incentive Package.  The most recent studies of the
Colombian incentive system date back to the late 1970s. Given the complexity
of the current system, the range of measures to be taken during the first
phase of the program, and the growing diversification of Colombian exports,
desk studies of the impact of incentives on export profitability based on
relatively aggregative data would not be adequate. It is therefore envisaged
that the next round of incentive reforms, designed to promote a move towards
free trade status for the exporter and to reduce remaining biases against
export production will be undertaken on the basis of a study of tne impact of
changes in the exchange rate, quantitative restrictions, tariff levels,
CERTS, and other incentives on selected key export products. This study is
to be completed under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance by October 1985
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a)(ii)) so as to provide the basis for
the Action Program to be undertaken during the second phase of the program.
It will also provide the basis, along with the proposed PROEXPO studies, for
the elaboration and strengthening of Colombia's export strategy, and thereby
for promoting growth and employment.
56.       PROEXPO/INCOMEX Studies.  In addition, a number of studies in the
fields of export promotion and debt and budget management will be undertaken
under the auspices of the Ministries of Finance and Developmeat and the
National Planning Department (draft Loan Agreement, paras. 1 and 2 of Part B,
Article III). PROEXPO will undertake several studies related to export



- 16 -
promotion. These cover the strengthening of PROEXPO's role in the country's
export strategy; mechanisms for the promotion of trading companies; the
development of commercial information systems; systems to assist exporters in
product design and quality control; and determinants of the export potential
of horticultural products. Other studies relate to the consolidation of
computerized systems of information linking the trade data of PROEXPO,
INCOMEX, BR, Customs and DANE (National Bureau of Statistics); the determina-
tion of input coefficients by INCOMEX; assessment of proposed stabilization
and export liberalization schemes for agricultural commodities; and external
debt maragement and budget programming and planning.
D. Expected Effects of the Adjustment Program
57.       The Government's medium-term adjustment program and the more speci-
fic reforms envisaged under the Trade Policy Adjustment and Export Diversifi-
cation Program are expected to have the following results.
58.     Growth and Employment Effects.  The increase in exports and the
expansion of capacity utilization and output of tradeable goods is likely to
offset the deflationary impact of the stabilization program and to lead to an
increase in the growth rate of GDP to about 2.5% in 1985-86 and to about 5%
during 1987-90, based on assumptions of a growing world economy, relative to
the 1.3% p.a. characteristic of 1981-83. In addition, the expansion of out-
put is likely to create new job opportunities. Given that exports, particu-
larly minor exports, are generally labor intensive, the increase in direct
employment in the export sector is likely to be of the order of 75,000, and
90,000 by 1986 and 1987 respectively. This projection does not take account
of the indirect effects on employment in other sectors of the economy.
59.       Reorientation Towards Tradeables and Balance of Payments Effects.
The combined impact of the overvalued exchange rate and the liberal import
regime of the second half of the 1970s led to a loss of domestic markets to
foreign competition in several specific agricultural and manufacturing
sectors; capacity utilization in manufacturing dropped to 65-74% during
1980-84. The continuing devaluation of the real exchange rate and the
improvements in the profitability of exports envisaged under the Loan will go
a long way to increasing capacity utilization and redirecting real resources
to the tradeable goods sectors, particularly agriculture, industry and
mining. Hence a projected outcome of the medium-term adjustment program will
be an increase in the growth rate of the agricultural and industrial sectors
to about 4% in 1985-87, compared to 1.6% in 1981-84.
60.       The strengthening of export incentives will increase the profitabi-
lity of exports of goods and non-factor services and therefore, the outward
orientation of the economy. The share of exports as a proportion of GDP is
to rise significantly, from about 12Z of GDP in 1981-84 to about 16% in
1985-86. Moreover, the accelerated crawl of the exchange rate is projected
to outweigh the impact of the loosening of import controls and of reductions
in tariff levels and restrict import expansion. As a consequence, the
resource balance is expected to improve in 1985, and to turn positive in
1986. Exchange rate policy is also expected to produce, inter alia, an
expansion in earnings from tourism, and transport. As a result, the deficit
in the current account of the balance of payments as a percentage of GDP is
projected to decrease from 5.2% in 1984 to about 3.5% in 1986 (Annex VII).



- 17 -
61.       The projected decline in the current account deficit, a result in
part of the postponement of public sector investments, implies that the
growth of debt outstanding and disbursed and of external debt service obliga-
tions is likely to decelerate. Together with the expansionary effect of
exchange rate policy and of the incentive package on exports, this implies
that Colombia's creditworthiness indicators will improve (para 37).
E. Benefits and Risks
62.       Benefits.  The most immediate benefit of the program would be th-
medium-term improvement of balance of payments prospects through increased
exports and stabilization of the level of reserves thereby strengthening the
confidence of international lenders and investors in Colombia's growth
prospects. It would also improve the allocation and efficiency of public
sector investment while maintaining resource mobilization at levels required
by the stabilization effort and in line with a prudent external borrowing
program. The loan itself will provide quick-disbursing foreign exchange to
alleviate the current shortage of imported inputs and intermediate goods,
which has constrained capacity utilization and export competitiveness.
Estimates of the quantitative impact on output and employment are provided in
paragraphs 57-61.
63.       Risks. Given the Government's commitment to export-oriented growth,
the trade policy refcrms per se do not appear to face major risks. However
the pace of trade liberalization may be slowed if success in stabilizing the
foreign exchange reserves is inadequate. On the other hand, an unexpectedly
rapid accretion of reserves resulting from expansions in petroleum or coal
exports, could weaken the commitment to trade policy reforms. The risks of
the economic adjustment program relate to the length and difficulty of the
adjustment process, domestic pressures against such an adjustment, delays in
completing export-oriented mining projects in the face of financing con-
straints, uncertainties in the external environment and export prospects, and
the possibility of furthet straining the financial sector as a consequence of
liquidity problems on the part of industrial enterprises and commercial
banks. The magnitude of the expected benefits of the program depends on the
degree of success in stabilizing Colombia's net foreign exchange reserves,
which in turn depends on a strengthening of the capital account. Also, the
need to reduce the overall public sector deficit means that the Government
will have to take difficult decisions at the project level when postponing
public sector investments and external borrowing decisions. Unexpected
adverse de elopments in the world economic environment could cause Colombia's
export performance to fall short of the projections; output shortfall and
increased unemployment could create pressures on the Government to abandon
its stabilization efforts and to reverse its policy of import liberaliza-
tion. A renewal of debt problems in other Latin American countries could
cause commercial banks to cut credit lines to Colombia again and further
strain the financial sector.
64.       There are, however, a number of factors that reduce the above
risks. Most importantly, the Government has shown a strong commitment to the
program by implementing strict demand management and trade policy adjust-
ment, and the policies and outcomes are envisaged to be monitored by the IMF
and the Bank (para. 75). Second, the exchange rate is roughly expected to
achieve on the average, its mid-1970s level during 1985. This should offset
most of the risks of the proposed import liberalization. Third, the program



- 18 -
gives priority to imports of inputs and raw materials utilized by exporting
firms. This should give a boost to exports, domestic production and
employment. Also, the phased implementation of tariff changes and reductions
in quantitative restrictions is designed to allow firms to adjust gradually.
Fourth, the Government has reduced the size of the public sector investment
and external borrowing program in line with a prudent foreign borrowing
strategy. A review is to take place later this year, prior to second tranche
release, to determine the levels, composition and financing plan of the
1985-87 investment and external borrowing program. Fifth, implementation of
the economic program and Bank support through a policy loan should help in
fostering commercial bank financing to Colombia, as preliminary evidence
already suggests. The whole system of import controls has had the additional
function of providing a check on destabilizing capital outflows and this is
another reason why the process of import liberalization has to proceed
gradually. Finally, a significant effort to diversify exports should reduce
the effects on export performance of changes in the international economic
environment and in the prices of particular commodities such as coffee, coal,
and petroleum.
F. Loan Features and Operation
65.       Loan Amount and Complementary Funds.  A US$300 million Bank loan is
proposed to support the Government's trade policy adjustment program. The
amount of the loan is hased on the estimated uncovered foreign exchange needs
of imports for exports under the liberalized PV and SIEX systems. This is
based on projections of average minor exports (total exports excluding
coffee, coal, petroleum, gold and nickel) of about US$1.5 billion per annum
during 1985-87, estimated foreign exchange content of exports of 35% (30%
direct and 5% indirect), the maintenance imports requirements of coal, nickel
and petroleum exports of about 1.5% of their value, and an average lapsed
time of six to nine months to be covered between entry into Colombia of
imported inputs for exports and shipment of exports. Together these yield
e3timated medium- and long-term foreign exchange resource requirements of the
order of US$400 million. The Bank loan of US$300 million is predicated on
the continued availability of commercial bank short-term resources amounting
to the remaining $100 million, and the understanding that foreign commercial
banks will maintain their total short-term, revolving credit lines for trade
financing to Colombia at least at their current level throughout 1985, and
would expand such lines during 1985-86 in proportion to the growth of non-
coffee exports. Based on commitments made by the commercial banks, the
Government has provided assurances that medium and long-term financing and
trade financing in the amounts required for the program will be forthcoming.
66.      Loan Channeling.  The Governaent of Colombia would be the Borrower
of the proposed loan, but the proceeds of the loan will be made available to
and administered by BR (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.08), except for the
technical assistance component which will be transferred to the relevant
agencies. BR will maintain separate accounts to record and monitor loan
disbursements and repayments. These accounts will be audited each fiscal
year in accordance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The Government will oversee and assume the primary
responsibility for the operation if the liberalized PV and SIEX schemes and
the implementation of the complementary policy and administrative actions
being undertaken.



- 19 -
67.       Loan Operation and Export Account for Provision of Foreign Exchange
to ExportJ9.  BR will provide foreign exchange to exporters up to the value
of their imported inputs under the PV and SIEX systems in exchange for pay-
ment of an equivalent amount in pesos. BR will open an Export Account for
the purpose of these transactions.  US$50 million of the first tranche of
disbursements under the Bank loan would be msde available as an initial
deposit to make payments for imports under the PV and SIEX systems.
68.       The Government has agreed to maintain the Export Account in the BR
for the operation of the PV and SIEX schemes. The Export Account, together
with governmental action for providing automatic access to foreign exchange
to exporters operating under PV and SIEX, will help ensure that priority is
accorded to meeting the import needs of PV and SIEX exporters. The Govern-
ment has undertaken to ensure this, as a condition of loan effectiveness, by
exempting the import needs of PV and SIEX exporters from the monthly foreign
exchange and import licence budgets issued by the Government, thereby
assuring them of automatic and unrestricted access to both import licences
and foreign exchange (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). The Export
Account will play an important role in this process by facilitating the
monitoring of the operation of the export promotion schemes, the expenditures
financed by the loan, and the level of imports made by PV and SIEX exporters
thereafter. This will be accomplished through the separate registration
under the Export Account of transactions relating to payments for impr-:ts for
PV and SIEX exporters. Exporters operating under PV and SIEX will have to
present clear evidence of eligibility in the form of INCOMEX documents
signifying registration and the award of import licences under those systems
and documents from the BR's Oficina de Cambio granting a foreign exchange
licence for repayments for imports under the export promotion schemes.
69.       An important feature of the arrangement is that the assurance of
automatic access of PV and SIEX exporters to foreign exchange should induce
foreign commercial banks to extend the required trade credit to eligible
exporters more readily and enable a faster turnover of such resources in
support of larger volumes of exports. In support of this arrangement, the
Government has obtained assurances from the commercial banks to maintain
credit lines at an appropriate level and has agreed to keep in place
monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance by the banks. The arrangement
is to be further reinforced by legal action to be taken prior to second
tranche release exempting eligible exporters from the application of a
Monetary Board resolution (Resolution 83) stipulating that a minimum period
must elapse betw'een the shipment of imported goods and the issuance of the
corresponding foreign exchange licence. This exemption reassuring foreign
creditors of prompt payment following the arrival of imports into Colombia is
expected to strengthen further the foreign commercial bank commitment to
maintaining short-term credit lines.
70.       Data management systems will be developed and maintained by INCOMEX
and Oiicina de Cambio to keep accurate, up-to-date records of imports enter-
ing and foreign exchange provided under the imports-for-exports (PV and SIEX)
systems, distinguishing these clearly from import licences and foreign
exchange allocated for general imports (Section 2.02 of the draft Operating
Agreement). Records of the total imports of exporting firms will also have
to be maintained by both INCOHEX and BR. These involve developing new
formats for import and customs registers. Consultancy services required by



- 20 -
INCOMEX and Oficina de Cambio to maintain and improve the data management
systems will be eligible for financing under the technical assistance compo-
nent of the proposed loan. Resources under the technical assistance compo-
nent amounting to US$1.0 million, would also be available to finance the
proposed studies to help articulate the further stages of the export develop-
ment program (paras. 55-56), and the strengthening of debt management and
budget programming and planning.
71.       Loan Disbursement.  Although the loan amount is designed primarily
to meet the import requirements of exports, US$199 million of the loan would
be available for disbursements against general import requirements of
exporting firms since it would be cumbersome and extremely difficult to
distinguish the purely export operations of these firms from their domestic
market operatiors.
72.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
tranche of US$150 million, available for disbursements upon loan effective-
ness, would consist of two parts: (i) US$50 million as initial deposit to
cover imports under the export promotion schemes; ai.d (ii) US$99 million to
be disbursed against general imports of inputs and intermediate goods for
exporting firms, except items identified in a negative list (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1). The remaining US$1.0 million will be utilized to
finance studies.
73.       The second tranche of US$150 million would be released upon (i)
completion of the review of, and agreement on, the medium-term public sector
investment program and financing plan; (ii) completioa of actions on the
various trade policy reforms including (iii) agreement on the removal of all
limitations to exports (165 based on economic considerations and 333 on non-
economic) which cannot be adequately justified; (iv) action to move CERTs co
a domestic value added basis for both PV and SIEX exporters; (v) movement of
50 prohibited items to the prior licence list and 418 prior licence items to
the free list to enable free imports equivalent to about 57% of total 1984
imports; (vi) agreement on actions towards liberalizing imports of spares and
maintenance items for productive machinery and equipment; Cvii) agreement on
an Action Program to further restructure tariffs, including the phasing out
of the 25% tariff surcharge and the 8% import duty, with a view to reducing
their current dispersion and level so that, with few exceptions, tariffs
would fall within a specified tariff range; (viii) agreement on an Action
Program to raise by March 31, 1986 the share of free imports to 63% of the
total annual equivalent value of imports in 1985, to reduce gradually
remaining import prohibitions, to rationalize further the import regime, and
to undertake additional reforms of incentive policies (para. 5 of Schedule 1
and para. 7 of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement); (ix) reduction of the
minimum periods stipulated by current regulations for financing imports under
the PV and SIEX schemes (draft Loan Agreement, para. 6 of Schedule 4); and
(x) favorable Bank assessment of performance under the economic program,
including the adoption and direction of policies to ensure the future
viability of the program and the achievement of the objectives set out in the
Government's Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment. The second tranche
would be available for disbursement to finance additional imports under the
export promotion schemes (US$50 million) and for financing further general
imports of intermediate goods of exporting firms as specified above.



- 21 -
G. Monitoring
74.       To monitor the implementation of the adjustment program, the
Socio-economic Committee of the Cabinet (CONPES), headed by the President of
the Republic and comprising Cabinet ministers, will meet regularly to review
progress, and to decide on appropriate actions to ensure timely implementa-
tion.
75.       The Bank will monitoz the progress of the program:  ti) through an
assessment of the adequacy of the 1985-86 macroeconomic program, including
the adoption and direction of policies to make it successful and ensure its
future viability; the specific agreements on trade policy reforms; the review
of and agreement on the public sector investment and external borrowing
program; and the adjustment of prices of public utilities to appropriate
levels together with corrective actions on the overall economic program as
required; (ii) through regular supervision and exchange of views with the
Government; and (iii) through consideration of subsequent policy-based
loans. The present assessment of the macroeconomic program takes into
account the findings of the IMF on stabilization, particularly as it relates
to targets on net international reserves, total credit of the Central Bank,
net credit of the Central Bank to the public sector and the level of public
sector external debt on a quarterly basis. It is envisaged that the Bank's
overall assessment will incorporate the IMF's review on progress with respect
to stabilization.   As part of this process, the Government will prepare and
send to the Bank two reports, summarizing the status of implementation of the
program, the first in October 31, 1985, and the second in May 30, 1986 (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)). The first status report would also serve
as a basis for a mid-term review (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a))
which in turn would form the basis for the release of the second tranche of
the loan (see para. .3 and draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5).
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
76.       The proposed loan, the 112th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,755.8 million (net of
cancellations).  Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1985,
US$3,383.8 million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 70 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84, reflecting the higher level of
commitments in the late 1970s. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome obstacles to initiating project execution
have resulted in a significant increase in disbursements during FY83 and
FY84. Improving perfirmance of social sector institutions in the execution
of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures
and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should
improve counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of disbursements in
the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments of
US$144.0 million in 29 enterprises and as of March 31, 1985, it held US$67.5
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.



- 22 -
77.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88% of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participatlan in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 36% were for power and transport, 17% for
industry, 19% for agriculture and irrigatior-, 9% for water supply, 6% for
urban development, 4% for telecommunications, 2% for petroleum development
and 6% for education, nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversifi-
cation was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close coneact with a
broader range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has
served to identify areas in which the Bank's presence can have a meaningful
impact.
78.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government through its lending
activity has focused upon the need to mobilize additional domestic resources,
to diversify and expand exports, to develop rapidly the country's energy
resources, and to free the economy from excess ve controls. The discussions
involved fiscal, interest rate and pricing policies, as well as incentives
for exports. Positive results have been obtained particularly in the power
sector, where power rates were increased sharply and a least-cost expansion
program was formulated and launched. Similar results have been achieved in
respect of some other public servicea, including appropriate charges for
water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
79.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank has been supporting the Govern-
ment's efforts to maintain sustained economic growth with financial
stability, expanded and diversified exports, increased dependence on domestic
sources of energy, provision of key infrastructure, and improvement of living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's having
undertaken a gradual adiust'nent process to expand and diversify non-coffee
exports and to resume growth, the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted
towards strengthening the Government's programs, by enhancing the effective-
ness of resource use, and giving priority to quick-yielding investments.
Within this framework, special attention has been given to loans which would
finance directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry,
support efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment,
increase and diversify exports and help develop renewable sources of energy
through lending for hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. The
emphasis is being placed on operations geared towards productive sectors and
essential infrastructure development which would: (i) increase output
rapidly; (ii) reorient production towards exports and efficient import-
competing goods; (iii) support quick-yielding infrastructure investments,
particularly those that enable the more intensive use of existing facilities;
and (iv) increase resource mobilization. Loans recently approved by the
Board, and a number of operations at an advanced stage of preparation,
reflect this overall direction.
80.       The Bank lending in FY84 consisted of loans for power sector
financing of ongoiag investments, coal exploration, earthquake reconstruc-
tion, agricultural diversification and multi-purpose water supply and elec-
tricity development, totalling US$464.1 million. In addition, the Bank



- 23 -
participated in two B-loans to the extent of 14X of the loans, or US$28.75
million. In FY85 and beyond, increased emphasis is being placed on directly
-productive projects, as under the already-approved loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking and
water supply and sewerage. Work is underway on projects for irrigation
rehabilitation, agricultural technology transfer, ports rehabilitation and
health. The loan described in this report is designed to support the trade
policy adjustment and export diversification efforts in Coloabia. In infra-
structure, the Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more
intensive use of the exiating facilities in ports rehabilitation, water
supply and electricity distribution projects, and rural feeder roads.
Finally, several projects in preparation will support the Government's
efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian population. Proposed
lending for further rural development, agricultural credit, water supply and
sewerage, and public health will help improve the standard of living of the
poor, while being designed to make better use of existing capacity and reduce
losses.
81.       The operations of external lenders In Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period. IDB has given increased
emphasis to energy-related projects, in addition to those for low-cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, rural electrification and land erosion control, which are aimed
at improving living standards of the lower-income population. In the future,
it proposes to assist Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and
in expanding productive sector activities to help generate increased capacity
utilization and employment. USAID has supported yrograms in education, rural
development and small farm development, but is phasing out its program in
Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Netherlands have also provided concessional finaucing for basic needs and
regional integration projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, the draft Operating Agreement between the Bank and INCOMEX, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section IV (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately. Proposed
special conditions for disbursement are descr'bed in Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
83.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
84.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.              -
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 2, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-25-                                                    AIINM     I
T lADLE *  t                                     Pqe 1 of 5
COLUSIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 6S
COLONSIA                            UPRPS  ROP (URIGuft 42mmu) L&
T S                 (NT         UTRST   ) AL
RI5NT    t     zuc  Imp              uuszms
196D!!-   1971Lb    UsTDIATELi     Ur. mRIC   & Cm                 n
Amu (11065Mm SQ. 28)
TOTAL                             1136.9     113a.9      1131.J
AGICULTUAL                         350.3      350.5       320.3
mA CEIXTA (156)                       270.0      440.0      1460.0           2106.6                   2345.3
_mIsy ClAwM     in cwxxa
(KILOGRAMS Or OIL EQUIVALENT)      355.0      495.0       690.0            "S.5                    1122.6
VoMATXIV AM VITAL nsT!rU:s
POPULATION.MID-VXAA (TOUDS)   15734.0    21266.0    26965.0
UROQ POPULATION (C OF TOTAL)        48.2       59.6        64.9             66.5                     66.1
POPULATION ROJECTOIII
POPUI.ATION LO TAR 2000 (HILL)                           37.5
ITATLONARY POULATION (HILL)                              61.7
PIPULATION SUIIEllIJN                                     1..
POPULATtON AENSIT!
PER SQ. Ux.                       13.8       18.7        23.2             35.7                     82.9
153 Sq. KDI. ACU. LAND            63.0       60.7        82.4             92.4                    156.9
POPULATTON AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 TMS                         Ab S        U6.2       36.2             39.9                     31.6
13-64 IRS                         50.3   S    1.l        60.3             56.0                    61.1
65 AND AOVE                        2.9        2.6         3.4              4.1                      7.1
POPUlATION GEOf RATE Cl)
TOTAL                              3.1        3.0         2.0              2.4                      1.6
USRAN                              5.7        5.2         2.7              3.6                      3.7
CWUDC 33 LATZ CPER TII0W)           47.2       ;3.0        7t.S             31.3                     23.4
CRUD  DWATU  RATS (PER TUOUS)       17.4        9.7         7.4              3.1                      8.8
GROSS RERO0CTIO  Ram                 3.3        2.3         1.6              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLANING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TROUS)           ..      115.4       192.8
USERS (S OW-PAIED w )               ..         ..        49.0             40.3
FO  AMD XVnWIG
INDER Or FOOO PD. M CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       99.0       124.0            114.3                    114.3
pCR CAMA SUPPLY Or
CALOS (2 OF RQOIUNENTS)           94.0       67.0       106.0            110.6                    121.6
PREINS cGRS PER DAY)              S4.0       46.0        53.0             67.3                    39.7
OF WIICH ANINL  AN PULSE        28.0       24.0        25.0 k           34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NATIN RATE         11.2        6.0         4.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EPECT. AT BSIM  (TAS)          53.1       83.9        63.7             ".7                      67.4
INSANT HURT. RATE CPU TUOUS)       93.4        70.6        53.9             60.6                    54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE MATiE (IFOP)
TOTAL                             30.0 la    63.0        64.0 4U 63.. 
URUA                              54.9 7     6a.0        73.0 7d          7S.i
RURAL                              6.8 7     23.0        46.0 7I          46.2
ACCESS To xCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ WO POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..       47.0        44.4 Id          52.9
URN                                 ..       75.0        60.0 7Z          67.0
IW"I.                               ..        0.0        L4.0             24.5
POPULATION PER IPHISICIAU         2640.0     2330.0      1710.0 A         1917.7                  1063.6
POP. 0n NURSING PERSON            4220.0 t&    730.0      600.0 7F         015.                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL D3O
TOTAL                            360.0      450.0       560.0 if         367.2                    326.3
UBA                                 ..      350.0       490.0            411.5                    201.5
UIRAL                               ..         ..          ..           2636.3
AUSSONS PER HOSPITAL BE               ..       22.S        29.8a 2C 7.3                             20.0
AVERAGZ SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..        5.7..
RURAL                               *-        5.9'
AVMEE NO. OF PIZSOHS/IN
WTAL                                ..
RoRAL                               ..        2.4 79       .
ACS  TO EL.1 (Z  r MaELINOS)
TOTAL                             47.0 le    56.1 .b
UriA                              8 3.0      3 67.5 7W
AL  l.07:    13.2 7W



- 26-                                                 ANEX I
T     A I L *  3A                              Page  2  of  5
-j *5!A                      uLa             U     1A (VKZG6ES   AWnUAUS) l
NDiT                01T  KCT lXN        ) a
1360Lk           15034?r        MIDDLE INCOUI           IDLTC
LtsoLb.   i97A       z8:i  TULb.   LAT. A MI  A   cm       l      uui
AMJUS81D INIOIUJNT RATTOU
1RXINR    TOTAL                    77.0       106.0       130.0            105.4                     101.1
KIAL                    77.0       107.0       123.0            106.3                     105.5
13*1                    77.0       110.0       132.0            104.5                      36.7
SECUMWYI  TOTAL                    12.0        25.0        41.0             43.2                      39.1
NIML                    13.0        25.0        45.0             42.3                     6e.9
ISNALS                  11.0        24.0        31.0             ".5                       50.6
VOCATIONL Cs o0 EcoUDA)              30.6 n      20.-        21.6 AL          33.6                      21.6
UPIL-TK       RAO
pIIant                             sa38.0      38.0        31.0             30.1                      25.1
OMZ!                              lS-O11.0     17.0        21.0             16.8                      20.5
ADULT LITEMACY NATI  C)              62.5        80.8       81.0              79.5                      75.6
CMWT1
VASIxMa CARJITMOUSAN11                5.7        11.2        18- 6            46.0                      57
m0  RICEIVU/TX0=11 POP              125.1       104.3       116-3            225.6                     164.9
TV  IU/T11012AND PO                   9.5        38.1        86.9            107.2                     123.8
rOIAm    (1MAIL? OUaI
ZAT1343?") CIRCULAON
M  TH0USAND POPULATION             50.0       108.7        50.2 li>         63.5                      96.3
CIDOIA ANIUAL A    AC /CPA             ..          ..        2.9               2.S                       2.3
TOTAL LIOSR 10! (M10M)             4727.0      6353.0      3190.0
nIUALE  tDUCT)                     19.2        24.8        24.7             23.2                      34.5
AAKCULTO3Z (PERCET)                51.4        37.9        25.8             31.5                      40.7
IWU S  (1DIJT)                     19.2        21.0        21.2             23.9                     23.3
PARTIIPATION RAU (3R)
TOTAL                              30.0        29.9        34.1             32.2                      42.9
KAUl                               48.8        43.1        51.2             49.3                      54.7
1314Z                              11.5        14.0       16.8              15.2                     31.0
zCOU0!IC DEPONIC  RATIO               1.7         1.6         1.2              1.4                      0.9
IZIRUNT 01 IWJATE INCONZ
m fzl nlvnD
152  Or 01  OUSEHOLDS             41.2        31-9
HIGEST 20S 0F 300815013           67.7   a   60.1           ....
LOEST 2as o0 EOUS7E1ODI             2. I          3.5
LIT  401 01 UOUSENOLDS              6.e   j   10.1
ESITATED AoMunz POVERTY INCOm
LEVI! (US  3  CAPITA)
.Al                                  ..          ..       214.0 j          288.2
SURAL                                ..          ..      137.0 28 184.0
ESTDI*ZED RKZTIV  lOVfl?Y iNCOVE
LEV  (MSS PER CAPITA)
u                                    ..          ..      267.0 Lc          522.8
RURAL                                ..         ..       122.0             372.4
USTDIATE POP. BELW ABSOLUTE
rovER  INC   LVL (C)
URBAN.  ..  34.0 k*
RURAL                       ..         ..          .                 ..
. Z AVAILALE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T Z S
/a  Ths group averave for each indieator are pop       Ucatinn-vmgbtJd arithmtic maan. Coverage of countrie  suoug the
indSicators depends on availability of data and in not unform.
lb  Unless otherwina noted. -tt  for 1960- refer to any yea bte   1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970' beten 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Mont Racent Eatimats' botuan 1980 mud 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1976; /a 1964; If 1978; LL 1962. Ih 1973; li 1979; L  IncluodLg teacher training at the third leval;
/k Econouically active population.
JN. 1984



- 27 -                                                                   ANNEX I
seu.I                                                             Page 3 of 5
Sb ..I.r.in a.... .e. III  b  i7  m~  951. ..bieS  mesa. ma  ) .  U t-N te S. b Ld.       bIb    -11e ieee% la.  --"-W 59.0 .9 Ca.
.915.5Ii-..    1. lb. v.9..5. g.m  4.. tib. -e..a    -. ,a.t.idl-t e.I       11d e.il tei   t-9 Us WIdl.   ..e .e-  -it -^   -"-tert *9 Sb   ~.t.e  me.
a.m,  eie  9.. cbS idime.   Use. lb             .  .    ..CS5         lb   uftweeeti  -  lb  -almulet: .9 ilel ~dl iCin  e..f . mess...  b.
C5CU   .e15a    sue.           de..a   51.          lb.e.9.s  ..       -V .ef   la    ilt'd Sb. eeb- f.1   md1nagb..  I5 S.. emt  ab em-..,  W
--  ItmeaUs ...b.t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1CeSU~O f-MLlbd9I .91eSi55 de-Mmi 1  eby   &  al sn.lbE
- 1.55 9.*e.e 55 s9-*Ssg   .d  tSee U   ISSIs   .#g S.                    .f..g.iiii.ia-Usgl   e  .1 .el -NewIl a-t.
Site esi IUI isiS.  ~ ~  ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~              F~~.iaIm iseCisiLK  dl  bp .e. a-rptteele.is.
5se9.t mlCflbl. ese..ini telelIap - i.,-ee.SSi                      U 1 b t            I         i       SS. W-atel, wt-U55   ed
Ps.ee1. ebsm Us btMb. gesis  Wls S. a  1.11mg 1946.                        -.Isie  N-It.tbeigi 
ONg.e  u  deS..                                                                _________________________________-PeeI55. =                       eet
P .,te sUse"t .....   easem-      -.ibe  ,et-..                   .it.b. C. p.9CC. ee pli. g.--) Us Wetpa           aie   beOPIss
low  tr.  sgu s.                                                                       hiM  bmef -    ~1e55.  b.Usbb.     i#e.Uba SstUseIlp  .esd
inl enUsC.~.   9. Ses=e  Sese. bebist baiSh -
lige  ~      ~          ie.  me    smte.3  -n.et"I                                Usimi    ~  . e UsP.9.51   .e.. 1. erabtel  t.              be hiCei.
590. Us ju   i.e..1  9  4itw     --64NW                                                  U      I"    W  _du  I-% st.a            acg-     .-  t.es
l4EIFNee.5.951--bC5  .9 .                                                      - I      S*   b.1e .~i.1s.55e                             sU
al.0-tut-Ipek. I   W  "I u~                                       t e e         U    s.         T e~dW.da.e.masa
blsPA.0..s. VseJe. les .9. b.d -  1911                                                                        ee.sg'   -  t-w  Mi
"em         5  hpUs -              we4 lb.  -".v Us, UsI.st ars                     desliSm.. 9..955l-sIr. 11ll.... ..bs1etse   .....U
lie..m5ssis  be. ml             .ISb   eg.d- .9 U ste et-a..-8--
Uselie  .  eeetlsy   s ..   sINtt 1. w.eJse. -1Pat  sea
3zS .uCE1               - is.    .19m-Us- Iv -. fl m.ehtlse
-.tes      ,1i sl. eg-..ie  .. Slay                                     t          P. t                             wPI
.me. be. .be5.IF wteUs - l -NUt  I-". C-a                                       pCmr Ib.           p.geg*ues UlegIk s.eidiu .9A-.  ga "I
9se.i..ai. lesset k  -...b   p.p.ge.Ee. a. Mea.b -el Se   . --                    -. bediSli S.- iILs.s.ew Ittle   .9 Peb..s di55.i 
Use.l- a. i.b laSs Sft a. w4-.  a. i..eeu-. Us Sb                              -ft. ea    s.eIdsIeete.                         e    mS
ile1-   e   . W.    SW-v OIsteb - e  lb       Nuttwed - lb                    .1tet         5 i. .. Ih 6.1   .9. abe.99 .5. ..s 
beb. . lb eeJsd  ebUneftft.I   tI Sb   ~.it-e a. C." P-,btl    ..  -tsLis   sMal                                                    i-e.t          1
aimi.         m      elble          sp.."i.15-r   imils a. lUsi.mgeS.#59*    ..i  -lU   19.5ts.tin9.
5.. ee.. 9le. tie      Iepe..h. 9.C  be.W l.s. Uss. lb~                         g-..s..1   e-. eb_isi.4
Sb ea~Id S. be.Ililvl.iC.eI- It "s  1.e.  M-". 9..,                      p5,m.ini -U,f9 -lisme.if .. .saU?5i.li
ini. 1   isIs.                                              bm5S..e.mb~6-41  .lsinC.5      e4inl9S. as    eC5i
b0.         ~ 35.n5CU  -ItIy   si -   lbs-.   159   f e.5.S.eJ  U              * m.ineed.01  -  dqot.1    p.1'.~. .gi Si t.e. Us
9.5*- e9-s)   lii..5-b  .e)  setega  Sit-N*Gp     tte
etell.. 595955    ~ ~ ~ ~     - i1  9e"5 .a. I.1 e..C.j-d55    .lbS.                            .Ut...s             I F        -
pelS..5 515-e  St-. d   -d an.. -).                                          lSeed  L=si.       nI.5i5  .elU    s~Sii.S  .
p-.2mssieiiid   il.U   .*Us                                                             9.    Fb5 .bii.ee.
AM9 .*   s   ..itCi   ta   .l  9.- Sb.. -    .91-ju                              5bS..(.   bCd..i.a   1    ..Cl  .                         sesa
9-.bis    Ce.U   .1i..                                                                se     C.t.pn5. .eli es..sK.s w.e.ls . elISiot                   "Wl~.
C. n.a.a  ee     99       9.    U.elC.         e s    ..i                      ImC.U   .C.. b    Ci5.l,SUe                            I  9..
Ira.,...                                                                  aisles.     isCe5 sa. ,Cel1, P  1. Ctil     mee1    - . 155-. C.
si e~e1i-b..te  Sb  -  PCeCtete -   beS   mef-ff!!d-   - -3    1                                                                       .
s5lid~~~be9te Us C5 lees..)!,  ..g.i 51-19. Ct54.~~--ve _ _. .t.e---N
T~~l7~~'~~ee..e.        f -    *si. 5eC9.I.  W - le. -tet-.  (..C.                            -  Lwfe  F-  9. W.I- e.Se.5se            -F- lae. bC-1
r    i.ei.t segmi els.b  -    .itSS   Us Ce1'.Se Cre.7 SC.                                - b  a-   5e P-     ..v- ae..SIn.e.     9~. lo.d  U"D
del..                                                                         P..eies.eS-tzler-u  v mq. 4.5  fe.. -.e     - s..  5.5. 1.4tt  dr-  -g =e.Sea.  -I
'mel .. -......  ef11.9CC.    - e --.e .9 9CCC.e5.1% SW_ee  Sm.               .       sliCts      -,9e   wel 4..i     -     Semi.   i..Us  m el.  U  Sb. e.
.ee.   -1 A..lCs   .9-  9U   epSee.Sb. "_'&   a. mS& p.r. .e      . eel              te.9.ts     9 Cst.ul s tea_      l..#9     p.9.i.-e .9 si~  U.1 Ie.W.  a.e
t-. eelI l.l  .e"   e  leUs P I..  "Cl  p.i.CC   409CC itW ...Si illS.                              gUS      . Ie.    U        59   eICCe  eC
=Ise.   3`wwIt 5. fspes.           Us-M     ...i  SC "MClUIA.bte..  1ei.e            Is CksC . qws ISp.3. mCUtb  me
.eteei  seC  SU t e-t.Sl  e  CIV i..    1-,LCmI-
.ii..e  .91   "   to-s   s,a. le15.. em.   Us wwtwlan...9Uits
eaee.e-  I-   Sb-  kbe  .r 71 g-s .1  M.1.   e4 p  U s.    3 IC     ~          W                    t-ui.eeelbe  ..  --59 .0eeUs  e.  9-9.9 See.5e  Us
o9e...   ---aeSa    Cs. c~ La. p.ee.. or Wm S" lb                               ...tW be ia W."pee  Mti. e.e.      bl. -ellee
lW.i  ald ls bepimTs  u-.5   Us i-M  sfiga .                                  Stae.9titel Ce-1          iC it"   al -"eR  C.d ."4e    elU  9.9. -e
1 ...s  ..e.l 9... C se ad!!!       -s-.I 6- P..4 40, e  U                     11e1-1 3i.e... lae  .e    .Se.                     -    551-.9.%
i..eE  ee   sUl  s el. S gU  .9irgS.-e.iN.  s  59                                s.55e.Syb     1eteillpi. . Me..               a Ie-UsaselelemeU
*  9sse9s-I peae. - me a. Cii.estee  lt -C ia.CertI.e . i eei. -e e.sCi  S qea  .l.  w. L..e-cLfte -en   -e   e
earle. Ca ideed lee. iCe 5b5..a 196. 5915 ad Sm i.e..           pSIeel em  .9 ibe~.  lebe bes C. i.eiUs  re. be Sees
9-e   e   mm  ea.e  ii. Ofetb  Wig,  eteUs-ee  i
e..Usse.s. ne..Us .1Sb. f.. geseae Steylbe oI. Wem. U                                                                             .
&Wile  iCle t-lf ete         SIe-1   .m....  .mCee   i 
sIbw   . ts      5   te..  Se.   s                    eed      IeS
9..    %ve.m  be ies     st.saa           Pasit, .ee.I   .



- 28 -
NNW  V.M=6                                                                                                           MAKI
tnimilmmz~miU-    u  -3ng4g1~ 
dos     z)               C( mt   5b)    __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _
Iq Elk l!WR SlM'  7   -a  If  -U -03 -2  -If-f                                                           2
1961        31       31      S-7,j,,E3S 71; 3241                                                               D3) 3D2LS 31  D6
Fixy                   6,a    9,1    Am          9%       62     6.      2.6    2Zi       9      MA     us.       D 20  2.2    23
smil                  *MJ15    AM       A9M      3,5    1S9        b     4.8    412      M)h     589    95    52    5V          5L3
au4da                   2J1      MX      3,5    3.1        5S4     18      4.7    NA      MA      MD    8         82      8         2
am  1                    6.      7,5      7,11   7@        5.1    316    7.2  D5           162    DJ)    3.       216    215      VA
tuef Wzkud               5,N0    4.33     4,5     4WD      11      SA      2.7    151     139    15        7.2    129    1?.3      5
dg awdt s               S,tlB    6.N      6,      5,4      4.3     O6      9.1    as5      5.9    VW      iA      1       7.3    .11
Quo _         6,6     5.       SJ97    4JiB     52    IL2    -LA       19A      55    162    19A    11         131     12n0
?Pttfm8imY  OW)                  IM      1,      3        LJ828    1.     f      so      1710   75T.2    371    111    Ml    HAD
lcromfinm                963     M7                31     -      1.5      7.2     -      115    27.5    212    7.7      as5   21.5
01W                      We      W        43      1.71    -       4.1    -8       -      VA.    21.3    1.      MAk    16    13.
IkduIlm I      M        4,       5.  _4           4M       3.5     241    12.3  EmD          ]MO    I=    MO    AMD     D ID   MR
R. d                           -7w          - V   IM    6'7                       U      -.    0                         18-W-
lwD1au                   We      73       A       61   -2        1n    413       20       -       LO   L18    1ml    I2        1m.2
:wy uii-      z        1,5      19M     US       US       5.2    4.1    127    4Z.7    43.6   M1.       VA      An0    1.       1.3
0l1w                   2,       23       2iE     2,4    1a        5.     9n  s 9         Si       0     42    CA        63    4.
*_      MS   31   W1                                so 8           OR J-W
ardtw              4             .3       1.9  23 5     21         3 v   110      21.6      .8D           2A.
Edwi,                          21.      1.      xi? 6D            Iu      4.3       .3 520      6-   I     IL68
Spit    ki     r              8L7     3710 3X63 l       B8 52   8        m.       6Z7.   6316    13.8   1622       D             7
Boat rDm kZc                               2,A     2,UI U3 1.    116    3W.   3S3t          3      Yi9    4.2
bm    Owbft7                            2L9     ZL5    2m         171     ZI       D.6M        2U MO      34
.hw cf t9t tadK                       3i71      11       M9      11.2    U9.9      o        .    12=2   19
1970       1975        1981       192         9l83        19t4 /b
1'IJE4C FflIMZ el
aivre  revu                                                                  9.2        9.3         7.8        7.9         7.8        8.2
0zrr~e e,q,udituzu                                                           6.2        6.1         7.8        8.5         9.1        9.9
Surplus () or deflt  -)                                                      3.0         3.2         -        -0.6        -0.9       -0.9
CBptal eimtlitume                                                            4.5        3.5         3.1        3.8         2.7        2.8
tsetgn fwind y f/                                                            1.4        0.2         1.0        0.0         0.1        0.5
1960-70    1970-75    1975-8
o01  DDICAS
426 grmwth rie (2)                                                          5.10        6.16       3.73
OG  pe  -Vits pah Me (C)                            W0O                                 4.OD       1.77
&IeW   a     >nmpdm puldh   roe (')                                         5.X1       4.00        4.OD
a   R/                                                                      3.54       2.95        4.40
tingI sml m wrac h/                                                         0.13       0.21        0.06
t   eI,tlity                                                                1.17       0.14        2.18
m/ Srwld M    WasFthd
bt Preltidm.
I At m.zket pd v:  C caet  wte wqWj  at feow axt md wU1 not as bie ioe  dexr.hm   of net 1Mist                      mg aaIldli.
Wicas       mo 1975-100.
1catu  covrenin  oily. - I.m   of GOP.
f? Pet dtIs   wme    i cEarMl lsn  to  JCrti GCemrzt imly.
/Lg!d  w yanr.
li!zcruin' to gooin dommc  agdimsf1ncrmwi to pte I .~tic prubact.
April 22. IJ.5
Coomi 01 Asi



- 29 -
1Rgdw 19jDi l4Q                                    LJt At      Ia1
15                        - Bg b                  56 -i SD  lt '
,m            m r ma           2.5   2s 35   A  43 43 O 3 4A               4.    43          5n)k   5,u  74a   9sp
ftodp* m           uim         243   2,    27   3W    3,    5W    645  6         54    5,1   5.    5        ,3 1  RW 
M tm                              S     As    at    6*    79 2-                                              9122 M
mt~mmft                -W    4f   -W    -W Z        S I,I <b -_w  -4w    -'K-I                  DxZO     W
Ueat mrd3D    3                               0    41    91    M5   2i   is   1M           1    D5    25   2D  2D
aOmzAmt 1AR                      -g    2D   4S D           a     XS        .Z -?JO  -_.9 --kW    M   jW
I1i  S-mf                         3      11   43   69  Om  DY          ZB    3      5Si    4*    0      3D  733
b11ma  hW- gIm6W3                 21    3     DS   49            117  1 as  143   1,06    1,10  13D   l.D  1   in
opool2               cfi an    (n    (                    w    o n  av       m     m s      Q  (4    M       nam 0
wpbDft=                         0     (12    ()   (P    PQ   (        (50   CO   (7w    (0)  ( 13   (AM (         CM
abram"                            fi   Zli   Z4    13)   -        3    3 M    5D   -S    -W   -0    -          4   20
.Amt  Mom                          3t   4BM   ZS3   S5  I.2l  l,fl  t1    LS   I             ,Q 39      IL   LR2   Q
Ouu*u I_(--*~                   -           -i    410  _10 -i6    -w    7a                        0   -M   -3  -r3
Ikh3ux1m1_SY w    d)1 W,5 19 43  ZW    4^    V4   VW   4                           349    17    1.   2.09  233 AM
%mmum         I fhNh              13.2   6D ao                    .      1          fi     4.2   4.2   417  4.9  4.7
WndiJummcf KZ Is                       7 D    3/5    J    92  J115  1,3V  13B   1D
~anud                            42    43 4      75      H      '6    5'    5      42
F  '41      (19)  CO)   am (9)   CM    (7)  CM
1                               (H   (-3   (-)    H      (     (H   (H    (-)   (3
Otw.*&gdi                       CD   (31   (0    (o   (a1  CY)   0)   CD)   0)
-36   21    3D    23    95    go   1a    UN   13S
;~~~~~~(5    C"   (7    (0   (1   (3    (3    I)C
730  O=(1    (-5    (                             0a    am  coo a         7O       )
EltWind1ma1                     OM   C(9    C1))   C09    C3)   (16)   02%   05)  (1Q1
Pdmm  ~        ~         )   lD 05)(15            )    83 (Om   (WI)  Om)
iENW.IUW(addp"ado
-Ut  uflxd                     2,5  2.2  2,   24    34    433  53   6    6.0
lInda                         1,73  1,;9i  IJ 1D I9   2,111  2      40   3jA   343
MD4                            0)0 ) O    0   "00 c4m Q) c0as
im                         (12   (M   C(1.19   (Z  (M  (           C) (13  (R
Pdfflm                        0E    Ss 6     2    813  A1  41    2/M   Zi   31M
rnUd1w Z                         fDo   '5  1JW   LW   14    23   2,95   W         3)
it& a      T m                  23    2)   315    3   5         SE  S2  0K   93
1dddikt                        15    0     13   5B    ZS    D8   4D   go          6
mwnZ72spmd jpmkmd
J1dm                           D.    9.4   9D    93    g9   L5   12.6   f5        9
I . r QZl                        La   LU   1U   1L7   23    L6    L9   2.3   2A
A_eI mt t onwam                 7.5   67    73    79      d    113  O2D   IA6   IL9
afjb                           M     M  a7J   C?.  aUn  a           i VA        MA
pdmm                   SX~~~~~3.   (7A   VA.)  (88  (11.  05   (241  (29   (9.7
_ vzud   .iVW kIwo    )         5.3   .9   52       3   r3D  M1    19   MA   1
(Ud                           (      .5  (21.A)  06.  (9.I   (.n  (A   (W)  (3.
MM2)  6Tm  (7.9) t      o(w   (Lq  (       Mg)  (15
55)awcml 0)                     6.7  2D2     6   376    .9   243   MP   MA   ZS
1dWu,m5        xddwmm           21.'A   3.    27   7A    11   2A.4   Rfi  2LS   ZA4
d&twAbmlt   I28   19   215   MA   MU    23   AD0   27   263
ruIUl am                        0.9   09    nA    as    0.6   0.5   0.   0.3   O3
Ind3 bo   A         dume        -            -     -     -      -     -     -     -
Dkcvdt   UcicAota dkbt gmdm      O3   02   0.   0.1    0       0.1  OA    0.1  la
R  eadp i      =k mw  Mt
# kL2
.AMmd



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN CCLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1985)
(USsillion)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
70 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   1,631.7  23.5 I/    -
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural Dev.         52.0              1.2
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6             17.9
1471    1977  Colombia                        Highways           90.0              2.7
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0              2.2
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              4.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power               126.0              5.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0             11.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0             2.3
1624    1979  Colombia                        Airports           61.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              6.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      27.9              2.5
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0             12.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5            13.2
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              7.6
1807    1980  Enpresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6            35.1
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                5.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              39.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.9             53.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             67.5
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0             13.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation        37.0             18.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of USS4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all.
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
Annex It
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1985)
Number Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank  IDA   Undisburmed
1999    1981  Corporaclon Electrica de la
Costs Atlantica               Power              36.0            18.5
2008    1981  ESpresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0           214.6
2069    1981  Instituto Macional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.0             7.3
2090    1982 Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Rallways           73.8            63.7
2121    1982 Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          149.6             95.6
2174    1982  Colombla                        Rural Develop-
ment            53.0             46.7
2192    1982  Fondo del Minlsterio de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0             12.2
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano            Agricultural
Agropecuarlo                    Research         63.4            60.0
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.      Coal
Exploration      9.5              9.5
2379    1984  Colombia                        Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0             26.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica 'acional  Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0             54.3
2449    1984  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5            156.0
2453    1984  Federacion Nacional de          Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colowbiano         diversifi-       50.0            49.9
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    40.0             35.9
24701/  1984  Empresas Municipales            Water Supply       18.5             18.5
de Cucuta
2476    1984  Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum          130.0            109.6
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica           Development
Banking         90.0             82.7
TOTAL                                           4,326.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          943.0   4.8
Total now outstanding                           3,383.8  18.7
Amount sold                          51.0           -
Of which has been repaid             51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  3,383.8  18.7
Total undisbuarsed                                              1,384.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
Annez II
Page 3 of 4
D. STATEMENT OF IZC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                          Type of             Amunt in USS Million
Year                   Obllgor                  Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laemnas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board           .50              .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                    Food products        1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envames Coloubianos, S.A.        Metal cans            .70      -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                   Home furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electrommnufacturas, S.A.        Electrical equipment .50       -       .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera           Development
Coloublana                       financing        6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera           Development
Nacional                         financing         6.00   2.04      8.04
1963-1967      Coopania Coloubiana de           Textiles             1.98    .15      2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing           -    .81        81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging           -   1.27      1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de           Warehou'sing         1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera               Livestock            1.00    .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombla, S.A.           Textiles            11.75   2.61     14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de        Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HoRISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Norte                            financing           -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                            financing        6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism               .23    .11       .34
Turismo Nedellln, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism               .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing                 -    .46       .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement               1.50      -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement               3.60      -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                       Mining               6.00      -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00     15.00
1977           Compania Colonbiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                             Conatruction
Material         0.49   2.24      2.73



- 33 -
Annex Il
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1985 (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount In USS Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00     .17      9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Coloubianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material        21.67    5.00    26.67
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                              117.17   26.80   143.97
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        66.89    9.59    76.48
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.28   17.21    67.49
Total undisbursed (including                          49.37    6.36    55.73
participants)                                        -



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLONBIA
TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT DIVERSIFICATION LOAN
SUPPLIUENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    8 months (from June 1984 to
February 1985)
(b)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 26, 1984
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:        April 12, 1985
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    August 23, 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
By October 31, 1985, or other agreed date, the Bank will review the
Government's progress in implementing its adjustment program (para. 75).
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) actions to enable the automatic import of inputs by, and the auto-
matic availability of foreign exchange for, PV and SIEX exporters
(para. 46) and
(b) the fulfillment of import liberalization targets including the
movement of 363 prohibited positions to the prior licence list and
218 prior licence positions to the free list (paras. 49 and 50);
Release of the second tranche of US$150 million of the loan would be
contingent upon (para. 73):
(a) satisfactory progress with respect to continued implementation of
the trade policy adjustment and export diversification program;
(b) updating of the 1985-87 public sector investment program and
financing plan, including a review of prices of public utilities;
(c) move an additional 50 prohibited import positions to the prior
licence list;
(d) liberalize 418 import positions subject to prior licence to enable
free imports equivalent to about 57Z of 1984 total imports and



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2-of 2
reach agreement on actions towards liberalixing imports of spare
parts and maintenance imports for productive machinery and
equipment;
(e) review all remaining export restrictions and agree on the removal
of those limitations to exports which cannot be adequately
justified;
(f)  move CERTS to a domestic value-added basis for both PV and SIfl;
(g)  reduction of the minimum period of financing of imports under the
PV and SIEX schemes provided under the current regulations;
(h) agreement on an Action Program designed: (i) to further restruc-
ture tariffs including the phasing out of the temporary 25%
tariff surcharge and the 8% Import duty, with a view to reducing
their dispersion and average level, so that, with few exceptions,
tariffs would fall within a specified tariff range; (ii) by March
31, 1986, to enable free imports equivalent to 63Z of 1985 total
imports by undertaking a further program of rationalization of
the import regime and reducing remaining import prohibitions; and
(iii) adjust export incentives (e.g. tax rebates and credit
incentives), consistent with the objective of promoting free
trade status and removing biases against export production; and
Xi)  favorable assesment of the 1985-87 economic program, including
the adoption and direction of policies to ensure the future
viability of the program, togetber with corrective actlons on
the direction of policies as required.



h                                 1
r ~ ~ t r. 1.' r                   'I
71 ~i               (ii    ij iii   I11;  l
[1  1       iE 10     j~~~ ~~I gliI    I
IL!    }  X
ii     J4f ji   'It' ~~~~~    2.1
(I   IIL 4         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  i
-IL



- 11 -
am~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ 
I. - - S
um St ~              -       d   m   s   -                                   AiIm mm. 3m hUadmwalaummm-"
3. 11RIINmelo,  a  WI   4 f~ ab 33                                       Au. axwo a km  ~zi mIef  fgou-
a WS .U   b -                                    mhda 3..
am               oqdu~m wad  toVf Ma d 1qnqCo 1                                             meml
a.o dt3  ga b.    of .UanI
1wdIA Uw resW         Sp"m      w _t   ad _
for rf Ed 1111        pu_ far rw ow _won
Ii- tw   ~s mog
itm agU.U3 uwmlum ad
dmI11? wum IN Mt Char-
a        V-    l D'ai
fmp_, sm_v, 
drn am fw dinU  ohm
1oinu ad tm o_.
.  a". Nonwn NJm 1wr    li=a  &MLIhml  d 3wmt
maIm dmOa tIMIM ORi. m
Nmbbdm ~am I U'sadi
bon 0_ b  a_ 4 -
tU. adol ha pwU  a ttr
dldatoaff,b  S Wa LW
ad-u'.).
mdatwfd adam  t or
Usnwn y meb de 006D 
sawm of 3m.g U.N to m
IL  Fara gs#Ahido of or   3'. p aim of fwwaim of On.                             amv go-m -la' do hm A-
-   sout ummt far   &W ADMO.                                                Irma mpdama  smWailogash   aw Md
U.m atin,.dm d cmaSt                                                           mitnim fmdaw.
ad adAm dlnu' ha U.e
swa ofIV ad gm
smOrt" wwr tU. 3m
oM. mA a Ism AMm'. far  bMdui Mdl '. uafmtw Om
"a km                 .,  Amg..
1. Sdha,- asn 1ow fudi    ANEuaS two atdiom 1w       Idgia ad co1lw itetli by                                      lowgaosmu wr obalmn .amiu la..
tro mim               Inld ~   am, salam  ini    3m1bw 131
Cd mn-a no* A, a 01000%
(b pEMmin dc tailin
de.m cc) ma   t man
0006b wo)mmtsd'In
I1mg ad  adtt daI  -S
- -wch d h.,Dm-
am)pawlmd  Cd)  - in
AM den &1wM rSmI
0Ar) FIXIAdM'. W hm    1
elo; Oad (1)    , m-al
ad p1mg.dhle:Fxmf
_U _ut



9.                 2       l 
I,,                I IL
I                     ii~~~I
I                    ~~~~~~~I I
'III till   1 (11111   ii IL
Li~~I 



oIt4a ilpw_ P .wWqq                     uUphg% IC
mnmar.aJ                ui*. t 1-  p   {*ui 2=,r? 3. .s                           F2in_d   IPQAJ *pu
Z s     I -   p b-.-  p  &n .ln.Pq,.  zwi         w-_ P. p -VW -Ad )-wi  U VD
am  i olvaq 0i  cl
Aww*m Ty I) L ! (--Mr
_ J~~~~-ow.n p                                                                             Fw ;I 2aD01_Oi WI --J-  __*-
i n dm   pO -w  _ 4aw
mm  1 l tAsim1
S-  I --i *  3  lEII 3-Wt *q 
* ianoa"
FM   p.D- vn |IaP   a - -
ipaV paqn  pm PMgMamm
-i 1V _p_UN  Fe_1p17
p UtIja f.ly  i.g
I*tlt mpIUFP4  _p.o
--s _J>t P S- It                     -,M     3a *I
-_EOW _,    I  am
3flVi AP llnoUUpP (An) pm
Ull   - NO   on"
(US) ImPpq. kp.a*p
(11) tmNi in1UlAW P
*PWI                   --                      tWuqi lmFlJl!
mm RI do la it am 3onuI                                      us) do 0  vIt   MVMMI 13Mq                                       WI 30mm  P'A30 de
jUiO an lM  PMdo IIU                                        MP zp we A D   t,9 Vi apt"                                      we  PM        l -
@2 .p                           ,~ .- _79~63mqqpaa    1. p__n.U
,,,|, apmw 110J   ij; MP go"                                          as""MP -- eP UlPW VI  .                              _         __
-u P-eu                                          -'IE~~~~~~~~~~~Au  MIUMU NLNM AV wn
A Pt -                                                   *     .t
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-B



- - 
w -  l ~ 
- p -.
s-   J p -
in P    . - t .
- us - qwi
w - 5
-  u Md
Im        Ina s a-pw
- - 
*bR I,m ju a,j t-- 
tq- - b-
_;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPD 1 -lts w_m  - "MO we
- u -
ininr~ ~Iq                  uw * -   -t
.m~~. p  1~~MIu -m At i -PPW    aaf                     a d of goMMWGo
a ~U  u   p bld p    a -painp W   - -              @ -  TM us  -   - MSW       =MM% It
- us- us w
l~~~~~~~~~~a  - ^<-  - it
so"~~~ _Oams mm" - ^~_*
_ p                                       I       _  t
_Al_ 3=1_
m1 us A mq inn                    u  el
SPS_~a  pp          -Ma                                                p*dps
LI~~~~~~~~~~~~ X



*11    Ii|i      1Ijp. 
i'!   IN !          hf '',   i,
hlr



- 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Policy Statement on Economic Adjustment
1.        The Government of Colombia wishes to request a World Bank loan to
support a trade policy and export diversification program.
2.        The main objective of this otngoing program is to revitalize growth
and employment generation over the medium-term, to strengthen the incentives
system towards the adoption of a comprehensive export oriented development
strategy and to redress the balance of payments deterioration. To this end,
exchange rate policy plays a major role; the system of export incentives is
being strengthened; import protection is being rationalized; quantitative and
other restrictions to exports are being phased out; and various administra-
tive obstacles to good export performance are being eliminated. Economic
programs to promote growth, employment and poverty alleviation are being
supported.
3.        Before going into the specific action programs through which the
policy changes will be instituted, let me refer to several other interrelated
matters: the development patterns of the Colombian economy; the stabilization
efforts that were undertaken, especially in 1977-79 and 1980-82, and some of
their side effects; and the ongoing adjustment efforts of the Government
that, to a considerable extent, provide the macroeconomic framework for the
trade policy reforms that the Government has been adopting.
A. Development Patterns of the Colombian Economy
4.        Over the long term, the Colombian economy has had an excellent
development record. Between 1960 and 1981, for example, real GDP increased
at an average annual rate of nearly 6%. With population growth declining
from 3.1X at the beginning of this period to about 2% at the end, GNP per
capita grew over 3Z per annum reaching nearly US$1,400 in 1981. In addition
to rapid growth in output and income, the Colombian society also benefited
from sustained social progress. Income distribution improved substantially,
especilly through the betterment of the living conditions of the lowest
income groups, and various social indicators, such as life expectancy, infant
mortality rates and years of schooling, also show considerable improvement.
5.        In the 1950s and early 1960s the development strategy had been
primarily inward looking, as import substituting industries were fosteLed
behind protective walls.  Towards the widdle of the 1960s it became apparent
that the effectiveness of this process had been reduced and that it was
adversely affecting export performance.
6.        In 1967, the Government began to adopt a more outward looking
development strategy. Export promotion policies included a crawling peg of
the exchange rate, export tax rebates, and other incentives. At the same
time, import tariffs were reduced somewhat with a view to improving the
inten.tional competitiveness of Colombia. The Plan Vallejo (PV), a system
of duty exemptions for imports in export industries that had been created in
1957, was an important element of the new strategy. The record was positive;
minor exports inoreased at an average annual rate of 28% from US$117 million
in 1967 to US$671 million in 1974.



- 43 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
7.        During 1976-1978, sharply increased export receipts resulting from
a coffee boom produced balance of payments surpluses. Incomes rose rapidly;
aggregate demand increased; and inflation accelerated. To restrain the
growth in aggregate demand, the monetary authority, among other measures to
limit monetary growth, slowed down the movement of the nominal exchange rate
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed. Demand manage-
ment objectives were achieved; however, incentives for non-traditional
exports were affected by domestic and external developments.
8.        The passing of the coffee boom and the adverse evolution in the
international economic environment, particularly the worsening economic
situation in neighboring countries (which in the early 1970s had developed
into important markets for Colombia's non-traditional exports), contributed
to a slowing down of Colombia's economic activity. Starting in 1980, the
growth rate of GDP declined, reaching levels of only 1% in 1982 and 1983.
The external resource balance, which had experienced a surplus for six con-
secutive years, showed a deficit of about US$1,500 million in 1981, and
US$2,000 million in 1982 and 1983 on average. One of the reasons for this
deficit was a decline of 7% per annum on average in real exports between 1980
and 1983.
9.        In summary, the Colombian development model has followed three
fundamental principles during the past 20 years: pragmatism, gradualism, and
self-discipline. The country has demonstrated repeatedly that it is capable,
when necessary and appropriate, of undertaking its own macroeconomic policy
adjustment. At the same time the country has maintained a long tradition of
honoring all of its foreign obligations.
B. Ongoing Adjustment Efforts
10.       Starting in 1983, the Government undertook macroeconomic adjustment
measures. Accelexated crawl of the Colombian peso led to its significant
real depreciation in 1984; this depreciation is expected to continue in 1985
in order to reach this year the mid-1970s real exchange rate level (the
highest in 25 years). The real exchange rate by the end of 1984, coupled
with tax rebates on minor exports, sought to improve the international com-
petitiveness of Colombian products. Temporary import controls were intro-
duced for balance of payments reasons. Tax rebates for minor exports were
increased and, at the same time, they were administered more flexibly. As a
result, the current account deficit of the balance of payments, that in 1982
had reached 7.4% of unadjusted GDP measured at the official exchange rate,
decreased slightly in 1983 and fell to 5.2X in 1984. A further decline to
about 4% of GDP is projected for 1985-86.
11.       The financial performance of the public sector worsened in the
early 1980s: the overall deficit of the consolidated public sector averaged
about 7% of GDP during 1981-83. A number of measures have been introduced to
streamline the public finances. On the revenue side various measures were
taken in 1983, including a reform of the income tax. The application of the
sales tax was changed to a value added basis in early 1984. Furthermore,
additional measures were taken towards the end of the year, including among
others a temporary surcharge of 25X and a temporary additional 8% duty on
imports. Local and real estate taxes were increased. Gasoline prices were



- 44 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
raised 15% and the system of setting public utility rates was rationalized.
At the same time, the Government introduced current expenditure controls and
increased Government salaries for 1985 by a weighted average of 10.5% (with
higher increases accruing to lower paid employees).
12.       The public sector's overall deficit stabilized somewhat during the
second half of 1984. The fiscal adjustment process will be deepened by
measures presently considered by Congress such as increasing revenues through
taxes on non-reimbursible imports, improving tax administration, controlling
expenditures, and reducing the earmarking of revenues for decentralized
agencies. On this basis, the overall public sector deficit as a share of GDP
is projected to decline by about 40% in 1985 and a further 35% in 1986.
13.       The improvement of public finances includes an adjustment of public
investment plans while maintaining employment generation and poverty allevi-
ation objectives, with a reorientation towards quicker yielding investments
and export activities, and R rationalization of public sector tariffs and
prices to ensure their adequacy.  Public investment during 1985-86 vould be
held to a level of about 9-1/2% of GDP (excluding the transfer to the Govern-
ment of IDEMA's debt in 1985), notwithstanding an increase in investments in
mining to a level of some US$1.8 billion during 1985-86, primarily to com-
plete oil and coal projects, being carried out in association with foreign
enterprises, whose output would contribute to a major expansion of exports
from 1987 onwards. mTe adjustment of the public investment program is being
achieved inter alia by postponing new power generation investments not
currently required.   The projected 1985-86 investment program and associated
external borrowing plan are presented in Attachment 2.
14.       The foregoing is expected to produce favorable results during
1985-86 as envisaged in Part A of Attachment 1. Some of rhe Government's
economic policy targets are set out in Part B of the same attachment.
C. Trade Policy Reforms
15.       The trade policy reforms relate to four major categories:  (1)
exchange rate policy; (2) export incentives; (3) trade regime rationaliza-
tion; and (4) administrative procedures.
16.       In connection with exchange rate policy, the Government will con-
tinue the c)urse followed from the second half of 1983. Accelerated crawling
of the Colombian peso has already resulted in a substantial real deprecia-
cion. As expressed above, by continuing this policy, the real exchange rate
will be corrected during 1985, in order to restore its mid-1970s level. The
Government will then continuously review the level of the real exchange rate,
taking into account, inter alia, the differential between international and
domestic inflation and balance of payments evidence, to ensure its adequacy.
17.       In connection with export incentives, the reforms being undertaken
cover several areas. First, the tax rebate system will be modified in the
following ways: (a) the tax rebates on minor exports will be adjusted over
time to reflect real exchange rate adjustments, and their dispersion will be
reduced; (b) tax rebates will be gradually made equal for all exporters
operating under export promotion schemes when CERTS (tax rebate certificates)



- 45 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
for importers using the SIEX special export systenm are moved to a domestic
value added basis; tc) an incentives study will be conducted and, on its
basis, further reforms may be decided. Second, in addition to administrative
reforms, all exporters operating under export promotion schemes will be
granted automatic access to imported inputs for exports and foreign exchange,
and will, on the basis of an established export record, have automatic access
to duty exemptions under the PV scheme. Third, imported components will be
excluded from concessional financing through the official export financing
(PROEXPO) system (such imports would only be eligible for PROEXPO credit at
market Interest rates). A number of studies will be undertaken as part of
the program to lay the basis for further actions to promote exports, growth
and employment.
18.       In connection with restrictions to trade, the Government is taking
action in several fields. First, the system of quantitative restrictions and
other administrative obstacles to exports are being phased out. The restric-
tions to exports of approximately 200 customs positions have already been
eliminated/ The remaining restrictions will be removed in the course of the
first phase of the program unless their continuation is justified, primarily
on non-economic grounds. Second, the import licensing system is being
gradually rationalized and simplified. Some 350 positions of prohibited
customs positions were shifted to the prior license list; a further 359 posi-
tions will be shifted by the end of May; and additional positions will be
shifted to the prior licence list during the first phase of the program.
Some 500 customs positions were already moved from the prior license to the
free list, and a further 218 positions with a value of about US$300 million
p.a. will be moved by the end of May. Subject to constraints imposed by the
availability of foreign exchange and the evolution of the real exchange rate,
the Government will gradually reduce remaining import prohibitions and under-
take a further program of rationalization of the import regime on the basis
of recommendations resulting from the studies we plan to conduct.
19.       The Government is undertaking a tariff reform to help rationalize
the structure of incentives. Virtually all peak tariffs have been reduced to
a common, maximum, level of 80%; most tariff exemptions have been eliminated
wherever justified; and the level of dispersion has been reduced. Once the
stabilization program achieves its objectives, and based on the conclusions
of the abovementioned studies, the temporary 25% tariff surcharge and 8%
import duty would be phased out. On the same basis we wou'd also deepen the
type of reforms currently being undertaken. As a result of this process of
lowering dispersions, with few exceptions, tariffs would fall within a speci-
fied tariff range.
20.       As regards administrative procedures, several actions have been
taken that should assist the export development effort. The operational
features of the Plan Vallelo have been simplified considerably and an alter-
native special export system was set up (SIEX). Various other administrative
reforms will also help to streamline import and export operations, 'ncluding
data processing systems by INCOMEX and Banco de la Republica to monitor the
evolution of imports and exports.
21.       The Government has put together an ambitious program of policy
reforms designed to have a lasting impact on the economic structure of
Colombia. The Government believes that this export oriented development
strategy will yield positive results.



- 46 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
22.       1 should like to stress that while this statement has focused upon
economic adjustment and trade policy, continued emphasis would be placed on
socio-economic programs to sustain growth, employment generation and poverty
alleviation. Such development with the adjustment described in this letter
remains our mediunr-term goal.
23.       In view of the measures being taken, the Colombian Government would
appreciate your favorable consideration of its request for a Trade Policy and
Export Diversification Loan. We look forward to a continuing exchange of
ideas with the Bank and to the opportunity to discuss from time to time the
progress made in implementing these reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Roberto Junguito Bonnet
Minister of Finance and
Public Credit



*                                                                        ANNEX V
- 47 -                             Attachment I
COLOMBIA: Economic Performance and Adjustment Prospects, 1985-86
1985                 1986
A. Potential Outcomes: Orders of Magnitude
Average Growth Rate (2)
Real GDP                                           2                    3
Goods Exports                                     10                   14
Goods Imports                                      0                   10
Average Ratio (2)
Current Account/GDP                                4                    4
Year-end Reserves (US$m)                       1,700                2,000
(Months' Imports of G&NFS)                      (4)                  (4)
Public Debt Service Ratio                         32                   33
B. Domestic Policy Targets: Orders of Magnitude
Domestic Policy Instruments
Real Excbarge
Rate (mid-1970s - 100)                         100                   ..la
Money Base Growth (Z)                             22                   24
Change Pub.Sector Deficit/GDP (Z)                -40                  -35
'Imports G&NFS/GDI (%)                            15                   16
/a Maintain and review real exchange rate in light of balance of payments
evidence.



Foreign In DisburUmtB by Sector
(lW tHL11n)
Maburemwnts 1985             Diasbhieints 1966                        1985-66
Edaint    1985              Ws tinB    1985-86             stAg          mm
l.o.u1/  loan     bt,al        s      is       Ib%a    L%w      Z      two   Z % tul Z
P'rOduct.V SUCtDrZ        294.2   635.2   929.4      292.5      865.4  1,157.9    586.7 (30.4) 1,500.6 (75.3) 2,087.3 (53.2)
Agr1icLiwur              68.4     4.1    72.5      72.8       154.3    227.1    141.2         158.4         299.6
Inbustry                65.6   174.3   239.9       66.4      356.0    422.4    132.0          530.3         662.3
4lnirg                  160.2   456.8   617,0      153.3     355.1    508.4    313,5          811.9       1,125.44'
ryjicaJL InfrestrucbJre   632.1   125.0   757.1      495.2      210.9    706.1  1,127.3 (58.3)   335.9 (16.8) 1,463.2 (37.3)
Pbwer                   442.9    88.7   531.6     319.5      107.2    426.7    762.4          195.9         958.3
Marnportation           152.2    11.3   163.5     166.2       37.4    203.6    318.4           48.7         367.1
Cb.MM&catioes            37.0    25.0    62.0       9.5       66.3     75.8     46.5           91.3         137.8
SoCsal InfritruWbjre      121.8    61.7   ;83.5       96.2       95.6    191.8    218.0 (11.3)   157.3 ( 7.9)  375.3 ( 9.5)
Water md Sewre           42.8     9.7    52.5      41.8       19.0     60.8      84.6          28.7         113.3
Id&atUion                30.5    14.7    45.2      26.0       24.5     50.5      56.5          39.2          95.7
Heaith                   16.8    33.3    50.1       1.2       28.2     29.4      18.0          61.5          79.5
Ukban & 1hgional Lev.    31.7     4.0    35.7      27.2       23.9     51.1     58.9           27.9          86.8
Ibtal                 1,048.1   821.9  1,870.02/   883.9    1,171.9  2,055.8  1,932.0 (100)  1,993.8 (100) 3,925.8 (1OD)
1/ Irl    loa10ns aigned as of Dec. 31, 1984, as wU as (1i) InB loan (UB$200 milion) for Rio Grande V&tar Supply PErjeet, appwowd
by IMB Hoawd In 1984 but not yet signed and (1.) additional US/EM loan (US$170 million) for Carbocol E1 Camujmi project to be
signed In 1985.
2/ Eu.xed Dafense ($150 milion), BEaco Pepublica loan to capitaJJze banks ($100 mllion) ad cwnerw1m  of INMAdebt ($200
muiion). 
31 EXC1udea Defam  ($150 million).
T     m Amomt and ti -OmIng to be reviued In light of acubl dcvelopcnts In oil diBwvries; se also footoDta 2 on pq  2.2. 



oAf Mull _nebt
(i Mullon)
_    FtiQlp Is15/     Local FLIbd2,                      InwgS,t                         2
1985      1986     1985/86  1985      1966     1985/86  i985     1966      1985/86     1985   1986   1985/86
A. Prolects with Forelgn Finuicip3/  1,625.3   1,491.S  3,116.8    637.7    969.3  1,607,0  2,263.0  2,460,8  4,723.8       100.0  100.0   100.0
Producthe Sectors                      694.7     594.6  1,289.3    208.9    531.9    740.8    903.6  1,126.5  2,030,1        39.9   45.8    43.0
Agriculture                           72.5      82.1    154.6      35,2     40.7     75.9    107.,    122.8    230,5
Industry                               5.2       4.1      9.3      2.6       3.3      5.9      7.8      7.4      15.2
M1nlng                               617.0     508.4  1,125.4    171.1    487.9    659.0    788.1    996.3  1,784.4
Physical Infrastrture                  747.1     706.1  1.453.2    336.2    342.6    678.8  1,083.3  1,048.7  2,132,0        47.9   42.6    45.1
Power                                531.7     426.7    958.4    239.9    216.8    456.7    771.6    643.5  1,415.1
lran4portation                       153.5     203.6    357.1      55.6     82.8    138.4    2D9.1    286.4    495.5
Cmnaiicatlcns                         62.0      75.8    137.8      40.6     43.0     83.6    102.6    118.8    221.4
Siaell Infraatructue                   183,5     190.8    374.3     92,7      94.7    187.4    276.2    285.5    561.7       12.2   11.6    11.9
Ubter and Sewera                      5'.5      59.8    112.3      22.7     28.7     5194      75.2     88.5    163.7
Fdueactin                             45.2      50.5     95.7      27.1     25.0     52.1     72.3      75.5    147.8
Ilalth                                50.1      29.4     79.5      10.1      4.7     14.8     60.2      34.1     94.3
Ukrgm and Pbgical
Dslopnet                            35.7      51.S1     6.8      32.8     36.4     69.2     68.5      87.5    156.0
Be EM&hts wlthwLt Foret!M
841.3    659.7  I.SOI.0    841.3    659.7  1,501.0
7btal (A + B)5/                      1,625.3   1,4C1.5  3,116.81/ 1,479.0  1,629.0  3,108.02/ 3,104.3  3,120.5  6,224.8
f Cn1y incliudes famirI lao  diasentu that directly finmce public lnwatamt (1ncludw Fr lM am.). E1as total disbzamts of pblic K C LT loo
excepts  (1) lms to Bol   Pep1lics; (U) Trde/bMport and Aricultumal 9etor laim; (iii) defer  loa, ad  (iv) cmwemi of D4& debt.
Zt Includes pesos cimterpart procees of W&Iel/tort and Aliclturail Sector Ica. Camsnicn of Col. $ opedituzm  to IB  ld an e eIm rate ammd      n
In fiscal projctiamu.
y   Bond an 01P dooment Prqrp do die mMento btemo" of much 1, 1985. A list of maor projects aMd borralng plm by  ctor  1    n the dount is                   c
attc.                                                                                                                                                 n
4I  Estlited as impUcit differeice baetmmT bual Publie TnvaiB   t (AB) and  Taal of Projects with ?ome4  Finacing (A). Total nv.stet for 195546 bd
51 on El,: projectiU   of firume of deematraliid qmcies and Mni.try of Fixsu  projectAns of Oitral Owtumit finrix, with adjuatmu  for lnvmsbt
trasnfers ba8m Cetral fbarimrmt ad decaatralizd s9mles and exdvp rate usytlons.



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Attachment 2
Page 2.=
Agricultwre
Amount of Loan1l
Prolect                                               1985       1986      Source
A. With Existlng Loans
Agricultural Research - ICA                                              IBRD
Agricultural Credit III - INCORA                                         IBRD
Arauca Stage II                                                           IDB
Upper Magdalena Watershed - INOERENA                                     IBRD
Integrated Rural Development (DRI IJ/I)                              IBRD/IDB
Marketing U/manga and B/quilla                                            IDB
Irrigation Districts HINAT                                               IBRD
Coffee Diversification                                                   IBRD
B. With New Loans                                    146.4      435.0
Irrigation Districrs II - UIMAT                               80.0       IBRD
Technology Transfer - ICA                                     40.0       IBRD
Agricultural Sector Progra=2/                                150.0       IBRD
Fisheries Research - INDEREA                                  15.0       Govt.
Rio Bogota - CAR                                             100.0        MDs
Agricultural Credit B.R. - FFAP2/                140.0                    IDB
Tolima Triangle                                               50.0       Govt.
Erosion Control Rio Checua - CAR                   4.3                   Govt.
Agricultural Equipment - TOLIMA                    2.1                    CB
Total                                               146.4       435.0
Tndustry
A. With Existing Loans
Cartagena Free Zone                                                      IBRD
Small-Scale Industry - BK2/                                              Govt.
Development Finance VIII - BR2/                                          IBIRD
Development Finance IX - sR2r                                            IBRD
Small-Scale Industry - BR2r                                              IBRD
Development Finance - BR27                                                IDB
B. With New Loans                                  475.4        200.0
SmalL-scale Industry - BR2/                       3.3                     Govt.
Micro-enterprises BR2/  -                         7.0                     IDB
Industrial Reactivation IR2/                    160.0                     MDB
Export Development2/                            300.0                    IBRD
Export Development?I                                         100.0         CB
Valle Alcohol Plant                               5.1                      CB
Industrial Rehabilitation- BR2/                              100.0       IBRD
Total                                              475.4        200.0
1/ The amount of loan refers to commituents (contracting), not disbursements.
2/ Public sector loans to finance private sector.



MAIIID V
Attachmnt 2
rPa 2.2
Amot of Loanl/
Project                                          1            1986        Source
A. With Existing Loan.
CoaL Exploratlon                                                        'URD
Cerrelon Northern Zone                                          ESXHM/DC/C0
ECOPETROL Invesetnnt Progrm                                       IURD/Suppl.
B. With New Loans                               67.0         242.0
ECOPETROL Investment Program                 207.021      129.02/      Suppl.
ECOPETROL Investment Program                 200.0?1                       Cs
Cerrejon Northern Zone                       310.dO/      113.02/          CB
Cerrejon Northern Zone                        170.0/                   lEX'IM
Total                                            887.0       242.0
P_r
A. With Exltlng Loans
San Carloa I ISA                                                         IIRD
San Carlos II ISA                                                        DRI3
Guadalupe IV  UKM                                                   ITRD/Cl
Plyas EPl                                                        ISRD/TDB/Ce
Rio Grande II OPM                                                 IBRD/Suppl.
Rural Slectrificatlon CORELCA                                           138D
Teruocerrejon II CORELCA                                                 Exl
Rural Electrification ICEL                                               IDB
Micro Power Stations ICEL                                                 iDB
JaRja  ISA                                                                IDS
Gua%lo E}!EB                                                        IRD/IOU
Distribation ENee                                                       IBRD
Betania CIB                                                          Cl/Suppl.
Salvaj ina CVC                                                     t9B/Suppl.
FEN                                                                  DBRD/CU
B. With Nev Loans                                 543.4    300.0
Bogota Distrlbution TI                         170.0                    IBRD
Distribution FZN                                          150.0         IBRO
Distribation FEN                                          100.0          T3
Betanie CHB                                     60.0                  Suppl.
Betania CUB                                     120.0                     CB
Jaguas ISA                                      28.0                      loD
Jaguas ISA                                      52.0                       CB
Guavio EKEE                                     48.0      50.0         Suppl.
Completlon Projects CORELCA                     15.5                    Govt.
Completion Projects CDRELCA                     11.3                      Cb
Completion Projects ICEL                        28.0                    Govt.
Completion ProJectu ICEL                         4.4                      Cs
Completion Projects ISA                          2.'                      CB
Completion Projects CVC                          3.S                      CB
Total                                             543.4    300.0
11 The amount of loan refers to cootmeats (coetracting), not dlsbursements.
2/  Composition, aounts, time-phasing and sourese of loans to be contracted
currently being reviewed.
3/ Addition to an exiating US Exi  loan.



ANNEX V
52 -                              Attachment 2
Page 2.3
Trameportatift
Amount of Loan,/
Project                                               19         1986      Source
A. With Exlsting Loans
Dique Canal                                                               IDS
Higtways VIII FVN                                                       IBPD
Roads Program M                                                           IDB
Rural Roads FNCV                                                         IBRD
Pick and Shovel Program FNYC                                              IDB
Railways VII                                                             IBRD
Metro Medellin                                                   Govt./1Wl/Cl
B. With Now  lans                                     81.4      180.0
Navigation equipment D#AC/PAN                      16.0                  Govt.
Airports DACIA3r                                   10.0                  Covt.
Rural Roads II FNCY                                           50.0       IBRD
Pick and Sbovel Program FlYC                                 30.0         IDB
Highways VI FVY                                             100.0         IDB
Ports Rehabilitation                               48.0                  IBRD
Public Works EquIpment Santander                    3.4                    Ca
Public Works Equipment Choco                        2.0                  Govt.
Total                                                 81.4      180.0
ecaic"
A. With Existing Loans
Telephone Expansion UNALI
4th Program TIleco-                                                      IBRD
Telephone Expansion EPK                                                  IBRD
Equipment ETB                                                           Suppi.
B. With New Loans                                  111.1         92.0
Expanson Channel 3 Inravision                    48.6                    Govt.
Telephone Expansion Bogota                       10.3                   Suppl.
Urban Telephone Talec3m                          25.0         36.0      Suppl.
Various Projects Teleom                          27.2         20.0      Suppl.
Border Areas Telecom                                         36.0        Svt.
Total                                              111.1         92.0
1/  The amount of loan refers to comiteets (cotrdactinS), not disburtgemuts.



Aut u...mt 2
IOP 2 .4
gnawso_d d-e_1
Prejret~~~~~~~~Mao at| 1.mt/
A. 11th *nith tt i &n"
"a lueu CrPM                                                           Los
S1o GrtSAs 1WM                                                         1032/
Smell cute.s 1.de.alI
Cocutn- -InIA                                                         IROn
D. with Ihu Loam.                                   10.7    124.0
U3ota IV U"A                                    120.0                 laD
Ingots IV WA1                                              51.0      Govt.
Cartnria Neu.rage                                          23.0      Govt.
Duallniu.tioa Sma Andres Tam-fopal                5.0                 CoVt.
Rural Water ftpply INS                           11.0                  weS
Uerraqutilln                                     15.0                IND
Uarranquilla                                      1.7                   Ca
PANAPAL - Infa_pal                                         50.0      ltRD
Total                                           1".7      124.0
Education
A. 11thb ElatLun Lom_
Was.arch Duvelopmet ICIIS                                               too
Sci=ee ed Technoloy D.v.lapnt Cmletnetan                                Too
Nural and UrTbn Udatieo                                                IIID
--:atloa  Material                                                      Ca
Comes Untverwity                                                       'EDO
B. With 3ew Loans                                   86.0       0.0
racbmtcsl Assistance. Matertal md gq.pt.   *       2.0                 COVt.
Obm  otwy                                         6.0                   Cavt.
r.v. Vn  Radio  ducattem                         37.5                  lot
Total                                               O6.0        0.0
UMdth
A. I1th  tlattaX Lome
S. With Now Loan                                    01.3       0.0
HIAIth S"ateo cansolian                          l6.0                 ISXD
*Iptcte gIuipmet - INS                            8.a                SSpW.
rampital Rquipnae - I5S                            4.5                 Cout.
He"ital Supplies                                 2.0                 Govt.
Total                                               01.3       0.0
orbewm ed aummiem Devgleffloo
A. vit.. Exuting Loamt
Papayan Recoa,etmttn ItiO
Urban Davelopment- SIP                                                13m0
Uanaventura Duvg_ament                                                1D
Ctedad olbivar  oota                                                   10T
UVan D valop_ant - UCX                                                 IDS
B. VWth Nbw Lomnn                                   50.0    162.3
Dowelopmnc  La Ceajira                                     72.0        1W3
Aguablanca - UICAt                                          8.2       Kl
Lt. with Serr2ic  - iCr                                    60.0        Ion
Urban Intraatructure - NMl                        50.0                  ION
Rio tanchart                                               22.0       Covt.
Total                                                50.0     162.3
1/ TbM inmt at lae  roor, to c e_ftma  (eangracting). Not dietmnta.
pproed by TID  1e lw  4 a rtolo bi   nd Is 1US5.



- 54 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of 7
The Pre.rin foi brade Nloey Adiutme_t
1.        The basic strategy underlying the first phase of trade policy
reforms Is to promote free trade status for the production of exports;
progress towards assuring automatic and uniform access to import licences,
foreign exchange and Incentives for all exporters; restructure the current
system of tax rebates and credit incentives; reform the administrative
uechanisms relating to the use of external finance, to ensure the continuing
availability of forelgn credit for financing trade. These reforms, to be
implemented largely during the first phase of the Loan, are expected to
facilitate the implementation of the country's export-oriented development
strategy.
2.        The policy measures contemplated relate to two major areas: (a)
export policies covering incentives, operational reforms relating to trade
management, phasing out of export restrictions, and; (b) the import regime,
Involving the reduction and rationalization of import controls and tariffs.
A. Export Policy
I. The Export Incentive System
3.        The Rationale for Reform. The three major instruments of export
promotion comprise: (i) the PV shebme, which grants Import duty exemptions
to eligible exporters; or an alternative variant, the PV Junior scheme which
grants duty drawbacks defined in terms of specific imports, to the occasional
exporter; (ii) the CERT system, which provides tax rebates differentiated by
commodity category, by which certificates are issued to exporters to be used
for the payment of taxes; and (iI) PROEXPO credits, which provide for pre-
shipment, post-shipment and investment funds to exporters at positive conces-
sional real rates.  Prerohipnt credits to finance Imported inputs are not
available to PV exporters who already have access to foreign sources of
credit. Each instrument has specific characteristics which detract from its
own efficiency or raise questions about the rationale underlying the
incentive system:
(i)  the increased utilization of CERTs has had a significant fiscal
effect: CERTs are estimated to have accounted for about 12% of the
overall Central Government cash deficit for 1984. Moreover, the
variability of the CERT rates (5Z to 35%) is a likely source of
inefficiency in the allocation of resources;
(ii) while PROEXPO credits improve the profitability of export
activities relative to domestic production, Increases in the
differential between PROMXPO's interest rate and the market rate
which result from accelerations in the rate of crawl of the
exchange rate, do not necessarily lead to corresponding
improvements in Colombia's international competitive advantage;



- 55 -
Annex VI
Page 2 of 7
(iii) participation in the PV system as it operated prior to the reforus
proposed under the loan, was not automatic but contingent on
contracts between the exporter and INCOMEX. These in turn were
contingent on the exporter's past export record, the
non-availability of similar domestic inputs, the availability of
foreign financing and the posting of guarantees (equivalent to the
duty exemption) with Customs. The scheme therefore favored
existing, large exporters able to undertake the costs of these
procedures. INCOMEX pressures to buy Colombian reduced the import
content of PV exports to levels that were not necessarily
consistent with the international competitiveness of exports.
Other problems stemmed from administrative procedures and INCOMEX's
reliance on the manua' operation of the import licensing system.
The severity of the law worked against the inclusion of indirect
exporters or capital goods imports for exports and occasional
exporters; and the restriction of duty drawbacks to specified
quantities of specific imports under the PV Junior scheme reduced
its attractiveness particularly in the absence of any alternative
scheme available for the new exporter. Finally the current PV
regulation tying the dollar payment of letters of credit opened by
external commercial banks to the submission of export earnings to
the Banco de la Republica (BR) has meant that in the event of
non-export, dollar payments have remained outstanding to external
banks despite payments for imports in pesos, thereby jeopardizing
the continuing availability of external short-term trade financing.
4.        In terms of its actual operation, the system of incentives
discriminates between PV and non-PV exporters. The PV, generally available
to established exporters with access to foreign lines of credit, ensures
access to imports, and import duty exemptions on intermediate and some types
of capital goods imports. PV exporters also have access to CERTs on domestic
value ;added and to PROEXPO credits confined to their non-imported working
capital needs. PV exporters are not eligible to reimburse their foreign
creditors through access to a foreign exchange licence at the time of the
sale of imports in the domestic market, but must carry the foreign credit
through the period of production and export right up to the point where the
export proceeds are remitted to the BR.   A wart of the export proceeds are
placed in special accounts and used for the repayment of foreign credit
lines; the remainder of the foreign exchange earnings become part of the
country's foreign exchange reserves. The exporter therefore carries the
burden of obtaining and retaining mediuT-term foreign credit lines right
through the entire export cycle in exchange for the privilege of access to
imports and import duty exemptions.
5.        In contrast, the non-PV exporter (responsible for 52% of minor
exports in 1982-83) does not have automatic access to imported inputs but
must queue with general importers for import licences, and is not eligible
for automatic import duty exemptions. He is, however, free to apply for
them under PV Junior, the scheme applicable to occasional exporters: how-
ever, the duty exemptions are granted for second-time imports and tied to
imports of pre-determined quantities of specific goods. The non-PV exporter
is eligible for CERTS on the entire value of his exports, and 'or subsidized



- 56 -
Annex VI
Page 3 of 7
PROEXPO credits for the whole of his working capital requirements. The
resulting pattern of incentives available to PV and ..on-PV exporters is so
different and so product-specific that exporters must display considerable
foresight and ingenuity to be able to maximize benefits.
6.        Changes in the Export Incentive Package.  The trade policy adjust-
ment program is focussing on modifications of various aspects of the incen-
tives package and their operational features to impose a substantial degree
of uniformity for all exporters. The Government is committed ro the reten-
tion of the PV scheme (since it has been in force for nearly thirty years, is
well understood by exporters and has succeeded in bringing increased amounts
of exports within its purview) but is also willing to open up admission to
the scheme over time, as uniform access to incentives is gradually extended
to all exporters.  Exporters currently operating outside the PV scheme are to
be grouped under a new system of Jmport-Export (SIEX) complementary to PV, on
the understarding that SIEx exporters with an established record of two
export operations will move into PV and thereby gain access to import duty
exemptions. By the time of the sccond tranche, CERTS will also be available
on a uniform basis for both PV and SIEX exporters.  The changes in export
incentives will be as follows:
i)  The Government will guarantee automatic access to imports for both
PV and SIEX exporters on the basis of a viable program (in place of
the contractual obligation imposed by PV) of exports and import
requirementa; to be submitted to INCOMEX and the atteneant registra-
tion of proposed exports and imports. These registrations are
criti-:al for ta;e administration of the INCOMEX/Customs guarantee
schemes, the import duty exemption scheme, and the administratiolL
of the Loan. Exporters will not be sublect to any pressures to buy
Colombian in the case of imports to be utilized exclusively for
export purposes;
(ii) Duty Exemptions. PV exporters will be eligible for ex-ante duty
exemptions on imported inputs. SIEX exporters are initially not
eligible for import duty exemptions; they will however, be eligible
for import duty exemptions once they have established a record of
two export operations;
(iii) CERTs. Initially, the dispersion of CERT rates will be reduced
across product groups. Also, prior to second tranche disbursement,
CERTs will be assessed only on the domestic value-added component
of exports for both PV and SIEX exporters. At a later stage, CERT
levels will also be reviewed as part of a comprehensive study of
the incentive system with a view to offsetting indirect taxes so as
to move exporters closer to free trade status. An agreement to
this effect will be obtained prior to second tranche disbursement,
and implemented in an agreed Action Program.
(iv)  PROEXPO Credit.   All exporters have been excluded from access to
subsidized PROEXPO credits for financing imported components;
PROEXPO financing will be available for financing imported inputs
at market terms and conditions; and



- 57 -
Annex VI
Page 4 of 7
(v)  Access to Foreign Finance.  Both the PV and SIEX exporter will
continue the current practice of initiating the process of
financing imports for export with the help of a foreign credit
line or by opening a letter of credit. The Bank loan will help
make available to the PV and the SIEX exporter the foreign exchange
required for the repayment of external credit lines or letters of
credit when payment becomes due, through the expedient of the cash
purchase by the exporter of the requisite dollar amounts to be
registered in the Export Account. The objective of automaticity of
access to foreign finance will be reinforced by legal action to be
taken prior to second tranche disbursement to amend existing
foreign exchange regulations to exempt PV and SIEX exporters from
the application of Resolution 83 of the Monetary Board stipulating
a minimum time period between the shipment of imported goods and
the issuance of the corresponding foreign exchange licence. Thus
in the case of both the PV and the SIEX exporter, an exte.nal
credit line obtai..ned either directly from an external source or
indirectly through a domestic bank can be repaid promptly following
the arrival of imports into Colombia, within a period considered
acceptable foe purposes of trade finance (normally no more than 180
days).
II. Operational Reforms
7.        Modifications of existing administrative and control procedures for
PV and SIEX exporters, will be implemented in five areas:
(i) Replacement of the current system of formal contracts by agree-
ments at the technical level between INCOMEX and the exporter on
viable programs of exports and associated imports;
(ii) Automatic access to imports on the basis of export and import
registration; no attempt will be made to restrict imports used
exclusively for exports, because of the availability of domestic
similars; approval procedures are to be expedited and to take no
more than ten days for new exporters from the time of application
to the time of approval of contracts, and no more than two days for
the approval of the corresponding import licence;
(iii) The current system of guarantees posted with Customs (PV) whose
magnitude varies with the magnitude of duty exemptions (PV) will
remain; however, INCOMEX is to expedite the process of releasing
the guarantees posted by exporters. In order to ensure against
abuses of the system, INCOMEX will require PV and SIEX exporters to
pcst guarantees with INCOMEX in amounts varying with the magnitude
of imports and the type of import regime (prohibited, prior licence
or free) to which the specific imports are subject;
(iv) Adoption of a more uniform system of duty exemptions on imports (a)
by indirect 2xparters; and (b) of capital goods used either in a
new plant or a plant expansion. Indirect exporters will be freed
from the requirements of a joint legal contract with the direct



- 58 -
Annex VI
Page 5 of 7
exporters for purposes of INCOMEX approval of imports. Under the
modified system, either the direct or the indirect exporter can
avail of PV benefits. Regarding capital goods imports, total duty
exemptions will be allowed if 70% of the total or additional
production of either the new or expanded plant is exported; and
(v) INCOMEX will work with other Ministries to reduce the number of
export restrictions and associated clearances. It will also ask
other Ministries to delegate authority whenever possible to INCOMEX
for the clearance procedure for products for which special
expertise is not needed, once clear Ministerial guidelines have
been established and communicated to INCOMEX.
III. Export Restrictions
8.        Despite the Government's stated commitment to exports, products
falling under as many as 728 tariff positions were subject to export restric-
tions either of a quantitative or administrative nature. These can be
classified under five categories:
(i) quantitative restrictions deriving from international commodity
agreements to which Colombia is a party, e.g., coffee, multifiber,
and cocoa;
Cii) quantitative restrictions or temporary suspensions, primarily on
agricultural commodities, imposed to ensure that domestic demand is
met. In the case of cocoa, the export quota was more stringent than
Colombia's commitment under the international agreement;
Ciii) administrative restrictions requiring clearances from INCOMEX and/or
other agencies to ensure compliance with ecological, sanitary (e.g.,
foot and mouth disease), defense and quality control considerations
or as checks against overinvoicing;
(iv) quantitative restrictions on exports of specific metal and mineral
resources: e.g., pre-ious metals; and
(v) the prohibition of exports of goods which are part of the country's
historical, artistic and archaeological heritage.
9.        While some of these 728 restrictions followed from international
agreements or derived their validity from non-economic considerations (333
positions), others (395 items) were subject to clearances or suspension on
supposedly economic grounds (protection of domestic consumers or producers).
The Government has been reviewing the rationale underlying these
restrictions, in the context of the loan.
10.       INCOMEX has been concentrating on the early reduction of export
restrictions imposed on the 395 tariff pos.1tions on economic grounds.
tNCOMEX liberalized, in the cDntext of the loan, 81 positions which fell
within its own jurisdiction including the more substantial ones imposed on



- 59 -
Annex VI
Page 6 of 7
domestic market considerations (cocoa, flour, oil seeds, white cement,
specific textile products), and it also liberalized, in consultation with the
relevant Ministries, an additional 149 positions. INCOMEX is instituting a
review process for the remaining 165 economic export restrictions and the 333
positions which are currently subject to restrictions on non-economic
grounds, with a view to reaching agreement before second tranche on the
removal of those restrictions which appear to have little justification.
B. The Import Regime
I. Import Controls
11.       The system of quantitative restrictions had three elements:
(1) prohibitions on imports covered 16.5% of all (5011) tariff positions;
(1i) about 83% were subject to prior licence; and (iii) less than 0.5Z were
free. Since non-tariff barriers to imports impair allocative efficiency, the
program has initiated the liberalization of import controls. INCOMEX
intends to move, prior to first tranche disbursement, some 86% of prohibited
positions equivalent in value to about US$87 million, to the prior licence
list in the context of the loan: of these 346 positions representing about
US$60 million in imports have already been moved out of the prohibited list.
A similar liberalization of 50 positions is envisaged prior to disbursement
of the second tranche. With respect to the remaining prohibited positions
(numbering 69), INCOMEX plans to initiate a thorough product-by-product
review so that all imports not potentially harmful to the State or to the
population's health (weaponry, drugs, etc.) are moved out of the prohibited
list according to an Action Program formulated on the basis of the recomr
mendations of studies proposed (para. 16). It is estimated that during the
first phase of the program, the total value of imports freed from prohibi-
tions will be approximately US$167 million; an additional US$28 million of
imports under the prohibited list, will be allowed entry on account of
regional agreements, for use in free trade zones etc.
12.       In the area of import licensing per se, the Government's actions
will ensure that all imports for exports (raw materials, intermediates, and
capital goods used primarily in export activity) are allowed automatic entry
into Colombia. INCOMEX intends to move, prior to first tranche, 718 posi-
tions from the prior licence to the free list: about 44% of these positions
have already been moved to the free list. A similar movement of an addi-
tional 418 positions will take place prior to disbursement of the second
tranche. Prior to the disbursement of the second tranche, agreement will be
reached on actions directed towards liberalizing imports of spare parts and
maintenance items for productive machinery and equipment. INCOMEX has also
undertaken to refrain from controlling or determining prices of imports under
the free import regime unless there is significant evidence of pricing
irregularities. In addition, the Government proposes to undertake a review,
as part of the study of incentives, of the remaining import licences with a
view to 'ncreasing by March 31, 1986, the share of free imports to 63Z of the
total annual equivalent value of 1985 imports, and for drawing up an agreed
program for the second phase of trade policy reform, involving a further
program of rationalization of the import regime consistent with the attain-
ment of the level of the mid-1970s real exchange rate and the stabilization
of international reserves.



- 60 -
Annex VI
Page 7 of 7
13.       It is estimated that imports freed from import licensing and
allowed automatic entry on account of their contribution to exports or for
use in free trade zones or as non-reimbursable imports will approximate prior
to second tranche release, about 57% of the total annual equivalent of 1984
imports relative to the 23% obtaining in September 1984.
II. Import Tariff Levels and Structure
14.       Despite increases in the average levels of legal tariff rates in
1983-84, the collection rate has been modest; the ratio of actual tariff
collections to total imports and to net Central Government revenues has been
fairly low: about 11.7% and 15.6% in 1984 respectively. It is estimated
however, that with the 25% tariff surcharge and the 8Z import duty, the
collection rate in 1985 is likely to rise to about 19% of total imports.
Given the overriding need to cut the Central Government's cash deficit, the
Government ic unable to reduce immediately the contribution of tariff collec-
tions to current revenues. The initial emphasis of tariff reform therefore
will be to reduce tariff dispersion. While the Government's aim will be to
minimize the fiscal impact of the reform, an associated objective will be to
reduce the average tariff. The maximum tariff rate is currently over 200%,
and a number of positions have very high tariffs. An additional source of
dispersion is the high incidence of notas -- ad hoc tariffs discounts
particularly on imports subject to regional agreements -- but also on imports
for specific uses. Public sector imports, regardless of tariff category, are
also exempt from customs duties. As a first step in tariff reform, the
Government has reduced tariff peaks to a maximum of 80%, eliminated a signi-
ficant number of notas not subject to regional agreements, and raised tariffs
with zero or very low rates.
15.       Further reforms will be agreed upon on the basis of an Action
Program formulated prior to the disbursement of the second tranche. A major
objective of these reforus will be to restructure tariffs further including
the phasing out of the 25% surcharge and the 8% import duty, with a view to
reducing the average level and dispersion so that with few exceptions tariffs
would fall within a specified tariff range. These actions will be taken
following the assessment of progress towards the stabilization of reserves
and the attainment of a favorable real exchange rate during the second phase
of trade reforms to be initiated in 1986.
A Medium-Term Action Program for Export Promotion
16.       The first phase program of trade policy reforms outlined above will
lay the basis for improvements in Colombia's international competitiveness.
Prior to second tranche disbursement, agreement will be obtained on an Action
Program for further reforms in the export incentive package and the trade
regime, and on the adoption of export promotion measures. These reforms will
be based on a strong commitment to the country's future export strategy, and
on the results of the proposed Ministry of Finance study of export strategy
and the incentive system, and on PROEXPO/INCOMEX studies related to export
promotion and the formulation of export policy measures. The Action Program
will underpin the second phase of the trade policy program to be supported by
a follow-up trade policy loan.



- 61 -
Annex VII
COLOMBIA: Effects of Trade Policy Adjustments and
Export Diversification Measures, 1985-87
1985           1986           1987
Balance of Trade                           +297            +415           +552
Total Exports                             +367            +593          +1139
Non-coffee exports, of which          +399            +497           +984
Petroleum                             + 53            +171           +581
Coal                                  +138            +144           +190
Nickel/Cold                            +35             +15            +16
Other Minor Exports                   +173            +167           +197
Total Imports                              +70            +178           +587
Exports of Non Factor Services,
of which                                   +134            +107           +145
Tourism                                +55             +15            +42
Transport                              +26             +29            +33
Current Account Improvement                +428            +245           +211
Memorandum Items a/
Current Account/GDP                         -4.3            -3.5           -2.6
Exports (Goods and Non-Factor
Services)/GDP                               15.1            17.0           18.9
Imports (Goods and Non-Factor
Services)/GDP                               15.4            16.0           16.4
a! Ratios at end of year.






