Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12866-TB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
AUGUST 30, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 23, 1994)
US$1.00        -  Baht (B) 25.50
B1.00          -  US$0.04
US$1 million -    B 25.5 million
Bl million     -  US$39,216
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 rai               - 0.16 hectare
1 hectare (ha)      - 6.25 rai
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDAB   - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
BIT     -  Bangkok Institute of Technology
CSC     -  Civil Service Commission
CVA     -  Central Valuation Authority
DOL     -  Department of Lands
DOLA    -  Department of Local Administration
GPS     -  Global Positioning System
is      -  Information Systems
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
LDD     - Land Development Department
LIS     - Land Information System
LTP I   - Land Titling I Project
LTP II  - Land Titling II Project
LTP III - Land Titling III Project
MIS     - Management Information System
MOI     - Ministry of Interior
NS2     -  Pre-emptive Certificate
NS3     -  Certificate of Utilization based on ground survey
NS3K    -  Certificate of Utilization based on aerial photography
NS4     - Title Deed or Chanod
OMO     - Organization, Management and Operations
RFD     - Royal Forest Department
RTG     -  Royal Thai Government
SK1     -  Claim Certificate
UTM     - Universal Transverse Mercator
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October 1 to September 30



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                    US$118.1 million
Terms:                     Standard Bank terms with 17 years' maturity, including
a grace period of five years
Proiect Description:       The project would support the third phase of the
Government's national land titling program, aimed at
providing secure documented land tenure to eligible
land owners, developing the long term sustainability
of the Department of Lands' institutional capacity,
improving land administration service delivery, and
developing an effective national valuation function.
Specifically, the five-year project would support: (a)
accelerated issuance of title deeds to eligible land
owners; (b) producing cadastral maps in rural and
urban areas in a uniform mapping system; (c) improving
land  administration  service  delivery;   and  (d)
developing the Central Valuation Authority to provide
an effective national property valuation function. A
main thrust of this third phase is to ensure the
sustainability of technical and managerial capacity by
productivity improvements and implementation of human
resource  development  strategies.        AIDAB  would
cofinance technical assistance and training in key
areas.
Benefits and Risks:        The economic analysis of project benefits does not
lend itself to conventional rate of return calculation
methods.    Project  benefits  are  derived  from  the
physical outputs (e.g. land titles, aerial photomaps,
cadastral maps, etc.), improved systems of land
valuation and land information systems, and more
effective land administration service to the public.
Socio-economic studies carried out under the first two
phases indicate that security of tenure from title
deed issuance led to: (i) higher land prices; (ii)
increased access to institutional credit; (iii)
increased input use and on-farm investments; (iv)
higher productivity and beneficiary incomes; (v) more
efficient land markets and hence improved resource
allocation; and (vi) reduction of land conflicts. The
fiscal impact of land titling and improved valuation
has been substantial. The main project beneficiaries
would include some 1.1 million rural landholding
families from a mix of provinces, slightly over half



II
of which have a third of their population living at
the poverty level of Baht 4,400 (US$ 173) per capita.
Project risks would be low, as the project would be
the third phase of a successful national titling
program.   Government and its agencies are strongly
committed to support of this program, and the
necessary experience has been gained under the first
two phases to address adequately any unforeseable
implementation problems.
Estimated Project Costs a/                           Local      Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)------
Land Titling                                      96.6        22.3       118.9
Improving Service Delivery                        14.5         2.6        17.1
Strengthening DOL                                  9.8         7.7        17.5
Developing CVA                                    10.8         4.3        15.1
Technical Assistance and Training                  1.1         5.2         6.3
Studies                                            0.5         0.0         0.5
Base Costs                              133.3        42.1       175.4
Physical Contingencies                             1.6         1.3         2.9
Price Contingencies                               25.0         3.5        28.5
Total Prolect Costs                     159.9        46.9       206.8
Financing Plan                                        Local       Foreign   Total
--------(US$ million)------
Government                                      76.8        5.6         82.4
AIDAB (Grant)                                    1.1        5.2          6.3
Bank                                            82.1       36.0        118.1
Total                             160.0       46.8        206.8
Estimated Bank Disbursements
FY                 1995  1996   1997       1998     1999      2000
----------   ----(US$ million)--------------
Annual             5.9   24.8   23.6       23.6     23.7      16.5
Cumulative         5.9   30.7   54.3       77.9    101.6    118.1
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Poverty Category:  Program of Targeted Interventions
OMa:  IBRD 25527
a/   Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$9.4 million



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . .             . i-il
I.  BACKGROUND.. . . . . .                                       .   1
Land  Resources    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   1
Land Use Policies and Economic Development  . . . . . . . . . 2
The Department of Lands   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Land Valuation and Taxation ........... . . . . . 4
The Government's Land Titling Program   . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Role of the Private Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Experience under the Land Titling Projects  . . . . . . . . . 5
II. THE PROJECT ... . . . 8
Objectives and Summary Description  .  .......    .. . . 8
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Main Features ............... . . . . . . .  9
Land Titling..  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Improving Department of Lands Service Delivery  . . . . . . . 11
Strengthening the Department of Lands   . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Developing the Central Valuation Authority  . . . . . . . . . 12
Institutional Development   ...... . . .  . .  . .  . . . . 13
Technical Assistance  .    .. ..... . ... o o .  . . ... 13
Training  R..       ............... . .  . . . 14
Studies  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  14
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Organization and Implementation Arrangements  . . . . 15
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
This report is based on the findings of a joint World Bank and Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) appraisal mission which
visited Thailand in February 1994. The mission included Messrs. Y. Wong
(Mission Leader), T. Lohavisavapanich (Economist, FAO/CP), L. Holstein
(Land Administration Specialist, Consultant), T. Jankowski (Property
Valuation Specialist, Consultant), and A. Zola (Resource Economist,
Consultant) from the Bank, and Messrs. D. Barber (Director, Program
Development S.E. Asia) and A. Rowell (Australian Embassy, Bangkok) from
AIDAB. Peer reviewers were Messrs. G. Feder (AGRAP) and A. Nishio (EA3AG).
The document was cleared by Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAlAN) and Mr. C.E.
Madavo (Director, EA1).



- iv -
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Project  Costs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Disbursement  ......... ..............  21
Cost Recovery         .............. . 21
Accounts and Audits ........ . . . .. . 21
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
General ..                                    . . . ... . 22
Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
Fiscal Impact..  . . . . . ....... . 24
Beneficiaries   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Women   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  27
Effect on the Environment   .......  ..  .     . . . . . .28
Risks.. ....................... 28
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . 29
ANNEXES
1.   Sector and Project Supporting Tables
2.   Detailed Cost Estimates and Financing
3.    Improving DOL Service Delivery
4.   Human Resource Development Programs
5.    Information Systems Development
6.   Developing the Central Valuation Authority
7.   Technical Assistance
8.   Environmental Analysis
9.   Key Performance Indicators
10.   Disbursement Schedule
11.   Project Implementation Plan
12.    Supervision Schedule
13.   Documents in the Project File
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Ministry of Interior
2.   Organization of the Department of Lands
3.    Issuance of Title Deeds
4.   Structure of Land Titling Project Office
5.    Revenues of Department of Lands
MAP
Main Project Provinces - IBRD 25527



I. BACKGROUND
Land Resources
1.1       The Kingdom of Thailand has a total land area of about 321 million rai
(51.4 million ha or 514,000 sq km), of which about 160 million rai (50%) are
suitable for agriculture. Of this, about 152 million rai were cultivated in 1991
(Annex 1, Table 1). Forest land has been severely encroached. Although 40% of
the total area of the country has been proclaimed forest area, only about 182
remains still relatively untouched. Demand for land is high, and in combination
with inheritance patterns, results in increasing numbers of (smaller) land
parcels.
1.2       The Land Code.  Traditionally, all land in Thailand belonged to the
Crown, but landholders were commonly recognized as being rightful owners who
could dispose of their property quite freely. Before the 20th century, land use
rights were determined by custom, villagers had free access to land. The first
official system of land registration was introduced in Thailand in 1901 with the
examination of claims, registration of documents, issuance of titles, and the
establishment of a Department of Lands (DOL), but land use practices continued
much as before. In the past few decades, population growth has exhausted the
supply of unused agricultural lands and led to the severe deforestation. Concern
over the disappearing forests and the legality of private settlements on public
lands has prompted considerable land legislation and led to the establishment of
the present system of land administration. A Land Code enacted in 1954 provided
Government with a legal framework for a land administration system designed to
control land use, determine ownership, and generate revenues from land. About
ten more Land Acts have been passed since 1954.
1.3       Under the Code, DOL is empowered to issue four forms of private land
document:
(a) A Title Deed (Nor Sor Sii, NS4, or Chanod Thi Din) indicates full
ownership and is supported by a deed plan showing the position
of boundary mark stones, which are usually measured by ground
survey methods.
(b) A Certificate of Utilization (Nor Sor Saam, NS3; Nor Sor Saam
Kor, NS3K) indicates that the person named as land holder has put
the land to use. The NS3 certificate is based on a rough ground
survey, as a temporary measure before titling. By the 1970s, DOL
was unable to cope with both the demand for titles and the
requirement for ground surveys.   To speed up the issuance of
certificates of utilization, the NS3K certificates were issued
as from 1972, based on unrectified aerial photographs.   The
certificate is supported by a deed plan showing the size and
shape of the holding. During the 1972-82 period, nearly eight
million NS3K certificates were issued. Holders of NS3 and NS3K
certificates have the same possessory rights as holders of title
deeds; the only difference is the manner in which the boundaries
are surveyed. An amendment to the Land Code in 1985 enabled NS3K
certificates to be converted to title deeds without re-survey.



Both NS3 and NS3K certificates are being converted to title deeds
under the land titling projects.
(c)  A Pre-Emptive Certificate  (Nor Sor Song, NS2, or Bai Chong)
authorizes temporary occupation of land. The certificate is not
transferable except on inheritance and is conditional on use
within six months of issue.
(d) A Claim Certificate (Sor Kor Nueng or SKI) indicates a claim
lodged by a person who was in possession and made use of the land
prior to 1954,  the effective  date of the Land Code.   The
certificate is transferable, subject to advertisement of the
transfer, and is convertible to a title deed.
1.4       DOL also issues an additional document, known as a Document for State
Land (Nor Sor Lor or NSL), to government agencies when land is used for public
purposes. Some land documents and the records to support them are maintained in
provincial land offices, while others are retained in district land offices.
1.5       Other Government agencies also issue various forms of licenses and
other documents on land tenure which are not specifically provided for under the
Land Code.  The most important of these are the usufruct licenses issued to
settlers by the Public Welfare Department and the Cooperatives Promotion
Department; the usufruct licenses issued by the Royal Forest Department to
squatters in gazetted forest reserves; and the land occupancy certificates issued
by the Agricultural Land Reform Office. The objective of these documents has
been to provide temporary occupancy rights to farmers until such time as they can
obtain more secure tenure, but the Royal Thai Government (RTG) has not yet
revised the Land Code to allow conversion of these documents to title deeds. In
the meantime, these documents cannot be sold or otherwise transacted, but are
inheritable.
1.6       Parcel Statistics.  National land parcel statistics (Annex 1, Table
2) are very approximate due to continuing subdivisions. In 1992, DOL estimated
private lands to include about 22.7 million parcels. About 9.6 million of these
parcels had already been issued with title deeds. Of the remaining 13.1 million
parcels, about 10.2 million were covered with certificates of utilization and
pre-emptive certificates, and 2.9 million were undocumented.
Land Use Policies and Economic Development
1.7       The Government's stated aim in the Seventh National Economic and
Social Development Plan (1991-95) is growth with equity. Development objectives
include income redistribution, and upgrading the quality of life, the environment
and natural resource management. Specific objectives in the Plan are to expedite
distribution of land ownership by accelerating the issue of land title deeds
nationwide and to reduce land speculation by enforcing tax measures based on
proper land price valuations.
1.8       Agricultural Development.  About 80% of Thailand's population live in
rural areas, and most of them depend directly or indirectly on the agricultural
sector. Agriculture provides over 60% of employment but its contribution to the



overall economy has been steadily declining, as reflected in 1991 in its 12%
share of GDP (against 25% in 1981) and 30% of exports.  During 1960-75, the
sector performed exceptionally well and was able to achieve annual growth rates
exceeding 5%.  Since 1975, the rate of growth of total domestic agricultural
output has fallen progressively and in 1990, turned negative.
1.9       As area expansion is no longer possible, agricultural development must
rely on increase of farm productivity.   However, the switch to higher-value
agriculture necessitates capital investment in land improvements, such as
irrigation and drainage, better land preparation, land improvements to reduce
soil erosion, and purchase of farm equipment and inputs. Financial institutions,
both government and commercial, presently provide medium and long term credit
only against collateral, usually land which is covered by a full title deed.
Thus, the millions of legitimate land owners who are still awaiting title deeds
have limited access to institutional credit for farm improvement.
1.10      Urban Development.   Government  is presently unable  to tax real
property effectively, due to the lack of accurate cadastral maps that are also
essential for planning and implementation of development programs. Thailand,
particularly Bangkok and the major provincial centers, has been experiencing a
development boom in the past five years which has strained public utilities and
services. In addition, revenue collection by DOL (when assessing transaction
fees) and DOLA (local tax) is affected by low CVA valuations. As these are also
used for the compensation of expropriated private property, they do not provide
fair and equitable compensations to property owners. Low CVA valuations result
from once in four years valuation (while market values increase much faster) and
inadequate methods.
The Department of Lands
1.11       Established in 1901, DOL is under the authority of the Ministry of
Interior (HOI). It is responsible for most aspects of land administration in
respect of state lands (public domain) and private lands. Its main activities
include cadastral surveying and mapping, documentation of private lands and
registration of land rights throughout the country, and subsequent maintenance
of registers of these documents.
1.12      DOL is administered by a Director General (DG), assisted by four
Deputy Director Generals (DDG) and a Surveyor General. Each DDG is responsible
for 4-7 Divisions and about 18-20 provincial land offices (and their satellite
offices). With over 13,000 staff, DOL is one of the largest RTG agencies. About
39% of the staff are located in Bangkok, with the remainder in the 75 provincial
offices and about some 600 district and branch land offices. DOL staff can be
grouped into three basic occupational categories: (a) land office staff,
including land administration staff, land officers and legal officers; (b)
technical staff, including surveyors, valuers, draftsmen, map production and
computer staff; and (c) general staff, including personnel, finance, accounting,
training, and clerks. In FY93, DOL had a budget of Baht 2,420 million, allocated
to land administration (65%), mapping and document issuance (25%), valuation
(2%), general administration (3%), and land allocation (5%). DOL's contribution
to the project would amount to 25% of its annual budget.   DOL's revenues
increased substantially in recent years due to increased transfer revenues from



- 4 -
the land boom, but have now stabilized to about Baht 21,040 million. About 55%
of the revenue is derived from transfer fees, 40% from capital gains tax, and 5%
from stamp duties.
1.13      DOL in 1981 created a land and building valuation section, which was
upgraded in October 1983 to a Division and renamed the Central Valuation
Authority (CVA). Until now, efforts to develop CVA have been limited. There are
few qualified and professionally trained Thai valuers in the staff of over a
hundred. Only some 50 staff having received some training in valuation, mostly
at the diploma level.   Support for CVA under LTP I focused on the initial
training of professional valuers both in Thailand and overseas, through the
establishment of a two year diploma course at the Bangkok Institute of Technology
and award of overseas scholarships to undergraduate valuation degree courses in
Australia. While this initiative was continued under LTP II, additional emphasis
was placed on the formulation of a strategic plan (Annex 6), completed in 1992,
for the establishment of a national valuation function in Thailand.
Land Valuation and Taxation
1.14      CVA provides valuations of land parcels to DOL for assessment of
transfer fees and to DOLA1 as a reference for local tax collection. RTG plans
are for CVA to operate nationwide to provide the central and local governments
with valuation services based on international valuation principles and
standards. Two main areas are defined: (a) individual parcel valuations over the
whole country to be used for property taxation; and (b) a land acquisition and
compensation service for fair compensation for land acquired for public purposes.
The Government's National Land Titling ProRram
1.15      Government concerns over land tenure and productivity problems led to
the establishment in 1980 of a policy to accelerate issuance of title deeds and
improvement of DOL's mode of operation and land rights  documentation and
registration.  The national land titling program would have taken over a hundred
years at the prevailing speed.  The accelerated program started in 1984, with
Bank and AIDAB support under the Land Titling I (LTP I) and Land Titling II (LTP
II) Projects (para. 1.18).  The main objectives were to complete issuance of
title deeds for some 13 million parcels then without title and to improve land
administration services across the country through:
(a)    Production of new cadastral maps, covering a total of 80,000 mapsheets
based on the Universal Transverse Mercator projection (UTM)2 and new
satellite based control surveys, for rural and urban areas. The old
1  The Department of Local Administration (DOLA), also within the Ministry of
Interior, is responsible for local revenue collection through municipalities,
sanitary districts, and provincial administration offices.
2 The internationally adopted UTM projection, a system covering the whole globe
in standard zones 6 degrees wide, minimizes distortions of length and area
arising from plotting the spherical earth on a flat plane.



- 5-
mapping was based on 29 local origins and was distorted by a
significant number of errors in the control surveys.
(b)    Issuance of title deeds for private lands (103.3 million rai or 16.5
million ha) and land documents for state lands (16 million rai or 2.6
million ha), covering some 13 million parcels (over an area of 119.3
million rai or 19.1 million ha).
(c)    Decentralization of land administration and related services to local
offices by the establishment of about 300 branch land offices and
improving the maintenance of land documents. The more conveniently
located branch land offices would offer a full range of services.
(d)    Development of a property valuation function to support property
taxation and a property acquisition and compensation function, and
provide a national valuation service.
(e)     Improvement  of DOL's  organization,  management  and  operations  to
sustain an effective system of land administration for the future.
Role of the Private Sector
1.16      Surveving.  LTP I and II have aimed to support development of the
private sector survey industry, as this industry is still at a very early stage
of growth. There are currently only some 211 licensed private surveyors working
Bither in survey offices (28 licensed), or as individual surveyors against some
7,000 surveyors working in DOL. Until the Private Surveyors Act was passed on
February 25, 1992, no private surveyors were licensed to operate in Thailand.
The Act now authorizes private surveyors to perform boundary checks, subdivisions
and consolidation of titled land. However, it does not allow them to carry out
cadastral surveys for untitled parcels, due to the sensitivity of land
adjudication. Nonetheless, private surveyors are already playing an important
role in providing private surveying services in areas where land titling has been
completed.   This frees DOL resources for other tasks that private surveyors
cannot carry out. LTP I and II promoted the development of private surveyors by
supporting the establishment and operation of the survey engineering courses at
Bangkok Institute of Technology and Chulalongkorn University at diploma and
degree levels.
1.17      Property Valuation.  While LTP I and LTP II assisted in initiating
development of the valuation profession in Thailand, at present the profession
is still at a rudimentary stage in both the public and private sectors.  The
demand for qualified valuers far exceeds supply and many large private sector
valuation assignments for investment or lending purposes must be conducted by
qualified international valuers.
Experience under the Land Titling Projects
1.18      The Land Titling Program was initially envisaged to be of four phases
each of five years covering different geographical regions.  The first phase,
supported by LTP I (Ln. 2440-TH) with AIDAB grant cofinancing for technical
assistance, education and training, commenced in 1985 and was successfully



completed in 1992 (Project Completion Report No. 11896, dated June 3, 1993).
Over 2.1 million title deeds were issued in five provinces in the north and four
provinces in the northeast. Project urban activities covered most of Bangkok.
The project supported cadastral surveying and mapping, issuance of land titles,
improving land administration, strengthening CVA, and technical assistance and
training.   The second phase project, supported under LTP II (Ln. 3254-TH),
covered an additional 30 provinces and became effective in February 1991. It is
expected to be completed in September 1994 with the issuance of about 2.1 million
parcels, representing 50% of the total parcels in the 30 provinces (the remaining
parcels would be completed under LTP III).
1.19      The Project Completion Report for LTP I concluded that the project's
objectives had been substantially achieved. The emphasis was correctly focused
on technological development to support the project, with institutional
development aimed for the longer term. A titling rate of 79% of eligible parcels
was achieved, which was considered to be successful by international norms for
systematic adjudication.  The remaining 21% of eligible parcels could not be
readily adjudicated due to factors relating to proximity to forest boundaries,
inheritance issues, absentee landholders, and inadequate parcel documentation.
These parcels are being subsequently adjudicated by branch land offices. Land
administration was successfully decentralized from province to branch land
office, providing the public with more accessible and timely services.
Government revenues from land transactions increased considerably as a direct
result of the project.
1.20      Cofinancing of technical assistance and training by AIDAB played a
critical role in the successful implementation of the project. The Australian
advisers were very effective in supporting project administration, introducing
new technology and providing on-the-job training to their national counterparts.
Training programs in surveying and valuation were specifically designed in
Thailand and Australia.   This  successful  formula of Bank,  AIDAB and RTG
collaboration was extended to LTP II.
1.21      The clear success of technological development in LTP I highlighted
the need for improved administrative and management practices for long term
sustainability.     Successful  systematic  title  adjudication  required  the
integration of national land use and classification policies. Administration of
provincial and branch land offices had to be clearly set within DOL's central
management structure. Parcel statistics had to be improved for better planning
of field activities, and parallel institutional changes were needed for the
sustainability of technological changes. Also, human resource management and
development was recognized as a key aspect of institutional development and
needed  a  long  term  perspective.    Incentives  for  career  development  and
advancement were an essential step towards increased human resource productivity.
1.22      LTP II emphasizes institutional development, including consolidation
of organizational and management changes, while continuing to support titling
activities.   It covers a mix of provinces in the northeast region with the
highest incidence of rural poverty and others with potential for intensive
development on the eastern seaboard. As of December 1993, title issuance was at
70Z of total target. A cost overrun of about 31% is expected, due to increases
during 1991/92 of salaries (up to 30%) and daily field allowances (up to 100%)



to reduce the gap with the private sector, and civil works unit costs (adjustment
for inflation). Additional RTG funds have been provided to cover the increased
costs. Land information systems (LIS) and management information systems (MIS)
have been introduced and successfully tested.   The CVA strategic plan was
prepared.
1.23      Socio-economic  studies recently completed for LTP I by Kasetsart
University (July 1993) have shown that land values, access to institutional
credit, amounts borrowed per family, use of farm inputs, and cultivated areas
have significantly increased due to titling. While values of production and net
family incomes were increased in the north, there were no significant differences
for the northeast, probably due to the fact that it is still too early for any
trend to emerge. Similarly, the project's social impact is still not clear. The
project appears to help reduce land disputes, particularly on boundaries.
However, a case study showed instances of land disputes among families due to
inheritance problems; the land titling process probably highlighted existing
problems.  These studies have confirmed results obtained from previous Bank-
financed studies on the direct correlation of land values, farm investment and
productivity with land tenure security.   The project has also improved the
efficiency of property and transfer tax collection, as evidenced by the 2602
increase of DOL revenues between 1986 and 1989 while these did not change between
1984 and 1986 (Chart 5). This increase can also partly be attributed to improved
valuations.
1.24      A  review  of  Bank  experience  with  rural  land  titling  projects
throughout the world (Environment Department, Research and Policy Division
Working Paper No. 1992-35, March 1992) reported that, except for the Thailand
projects, the 12 operations surveyed performed poorly. The main problems were:
lack of political support; conflicting bureaucratic priorities; lack of
institutional capacity or support; and complex multiple objectives of which
titling was only an adjunct. By contrast, the Thailand projects were relatively
successful, due to: full political and institutional support; Government
commitment of adequate resources; single titling objective; and relatively
favorable land policy environment. The mutual cooperation between DOL, AIDAB,
and the Bank must also be considered a factor in the success so far.   The
Thailand projects have attracted considerable interest in international circles
as they are recognized as being among the best national land titling efforts.



II. THE PROJECT
Oblectives and Summary Description
2.1       The objectives of the project are to:
(a)    provide secure land tenure to eligible land owners;
(b)    develop the long term sustainability of DOL's institutional capacity;
(c)    improve land administration service delivery; and
(d)    develop an effective national property valuation function.
2.2       The project would support the third phase of the Goverrment's national
land titling program, aimed at extending secure land ownership, compiling a
uniform and complete national cadastral mapping system, and developing land
administration and valuation systems. The granting of secure documented tenure
to poor rural landholders (para. 2.5) would facilitate their access to
institutional credit, thereby promoting investments in the land, and increasing
agricultural productivity and family incomes.   The completion of a national
cadastral mapping system would greatly assist the various RTG agencies
responsible for development planning and administration. Emphasis on DOL's long
term institutional development by strengthening and decentralizing its
operational capacity is aimed at providing an effective and more efficient land
administration service to the public at the local level. Finally, implementation
of the strategic plan for CVA would result in providing more accurate and timely
property valuations and tax assessments, which would strengthen the fiscal system
and increase government revenues, particularly in urban areas.
2.3       Project activities would occur mainly in some 19 provinces (Annex 1,
Table 3), including ten provinces in the northeast and seven provinces in the
north to complete titling coverage of these regions, and two provinces in the
central region. The selection of provinces would be kept under review during
project implementation to accommodate changes in priority over the life of the
project. Project beneficiaries would be mainly the rural population, composed
of farmers on small holdings and including the poorest segments of these groups
in the northeast, which is the poorest region in Thailand (para. 2.5).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.4       The project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for Thailand.  The
country assistance strategy focuses on four areas: infrastructure development;
poverty alleviation and improving income distribution; human resource
development; and environmental and natural resource management.   The project
addresses the last three issues.
2.5       The Thailand Poverty Assessment of June 1993 reported that Thailand
was the only country out of six in East Asia that failed to make significant
advances in reducing poverty in the late 19809, despite the economic boom. Also,
95% of employed household heads who are below the poverty line are employed in
agriculture, either self-employed or as agricultural workers, and that 28Z of
farming families in the country are below the poverty line of US$173 per capita.



Regional differences are also widening, with poverty incidence in the northeast
remaining unchanged and highest at 33%. Through provision of secure documented
land tenure to mainly rural families (and over 50% of the project provinces are
from the poorer northeast region), the project would assist in alleviating
poverty of the least privileged people in the country by opening access to
institutional credit and thus increasing farm productivity and income.
2.6       Whereas  LTP  I and  II  focused  on  the  introduction  of  improved
technology and laying down the organizational framework for DOL development, the
main thrust of LTP III would be to ensure the sustainability of technical and
institutional capacity by the implementation of human resource and information
technology programs. An important challenge for DOL in this phase is to use its
human resources more effectively.  Strategies to upgrade skills, consolidate
career streams and redeploy staff, and give incentives for career advancement and
retention of skilled staff, would be implemented.
2.7       Project support to ground survey and demarcation of forest reserve
boundaries in the project area, which includes over 25% of the country's
provinces, represents the first and most comprehensive initiative by RTG to
clearly delineate its forest areas. Clear boundaries agreed by all concerned RTG
agencies and marked on the ground, followed by actions to demonstrate that title
deeds will not be issued to encroached parcels, will facilitate forest protection
and discourage forest encroachment.
2.8       Finally, the present restraint on government budgetary expenditures,
subject to a ceiling of 2% annual increase, limits the domestic capacity to
implement the rest of the national land titling program. A freeze on new staff
recruitment for the civil service (except for specially approved projects, in
which this project is included) is also in force since February 8, 1994. On the
other hand, the Cabinet has given the highest priority to the completion of the
national land titling program on an accelerated schedule and to the development
of CVA.   In the light of these severe resource constraints, the government
objective cannot be achieved without external support. The project will help to
fill in the resource gap.
Main Features
2.9       The project would include:
(a)    land titling, including rural and urban cadastral survey and mapping,
adjudication, and title deed production and distribution (67.8% of
total base costs);
(b)    improving  Department  of  Lands  service  delivery,  focusing  on
decentralization and strengthening of central and land office
operations (9.7Z of total base costs);
(c)    strengthenina the Department of Lands, with emphasis on management and
development of human resources and information systems (10.0% of total
base costs);
(d)    developing the Central Valuation Authority (8.6% of total base costs);



- 10 -
(a)    institutional development. including technical assistance and overseas
training (3.6Z of total base costs); and
(f)    studies (0.3Z of total base costs).
Land Titling
2.10      Cadastral survey and mapping would include aerial photography, and
cadastral survey and mapping of both rural and urban areas. Aerial photography
would be carried out for 92,650 sq km of rural land in the remaining 28 provinces
of Thailand and 2,000 sq km of urban land. For rural areas, 26,550 photomaps at
scale 1:4,000 would be prepared from up-to-date aerial photography. The rate of
production of photomaps of 4,000 mapsheets per year achieved under LTP I and
increased to 6,000 mapsheets per year under LTP II would be consolidated under
the project.  Urban mapping activities would include the production of 4,230
photomaps at scale 1:1,000 covering about 26 provincial cities and towns.
2.11      Land titling includes three processes: adjudication, conversion and
transformation. The project would support the provision of vehicles, equipment,
furniture, materials, and other operating costs of these activities.
(a)    Adludication is the process of issuing title deeds for land covered
by NS3 certificates and lesser land documents, and undocumented land.
DOL field adjudication teams officially determine the boundaries of
separately owned parcels and the ownership and other rights held in
each. This is done by reaching agreement with village authorities and
neighbors of the parcel holders on the legitimacy of their status and
on the parcel boundaries. After the placement of mark stones and tape
measurement of parcel dimensions, the parcel is either surveyed or
identified on the UTM photomap sheet (and cadastral map), the
adjudication of the land rights takes place. Adjudication (by ground
survey or photo-adjudication) is undertaken in parties of 10
adjudication teams, each team consisting of an adjudication staff, a
surveyor to adjudicate boundaries, and in the case of the use of
ground survey method, a surveyor to survey boundaries.  Under the
project, 3.4 million eligible parcels covering an area of about 15
million rai would be considered for adjudication by about 500 field
teams totalling about 2,180 DOL staff and 3,190 temporary workers.
(b)    Conversion covers the issuing of titles to landholders with NS3K
certificates, where possible without adjudication or field survey.
It is a technical and administrative process involving the conversion
of maps and existing certificates, though up to 30Z of cases may
involve a field survey or check. A first step is the transformation
of existing NS3K maps onto UTM photomaps using computer techniques.
Subsequent steps include the production of title deeds for these
transformed parcels without any necessary field surveys taken. The
field and office work would be undertaken by about 60 special NS3K
conversion teams (included in the 500 teams for adjudication above),
working at a production rate of about 600 parcels per month. Under
the project, about 960,000 NS3K certificates (included in the 3.4



- 11 -
million parcels above) covering an area of about 4.3 million rai would
be considered for conversion.
(c)    Transformation of title deed maps consists of the plotting of old
title deeds maps and plans in both rural and urban areas onto the new
UTM cadastral mapsheets, including the renumbering of parcels and
noting this on the parcel files. Under the project, about 1.7 million
old title deeds would be remapped.
2.12      Following the provisions of the Land Code, the project will only issue
title deeds to land parcels located outside gazetted or degazetted forest
reserves. To ensure that no parcels inside these forest areas are issued with
title deeds, the project will support the ground survey and demarcation of forest
boundaries.  As most of the 18 project provinces include forest areas, this
activity will be the most comprehensive action ever taken by RTG to demarcate its
forest boundaries on the ground.  While this activity will also improve the
efficiency of field adjudication, the overriding concern is environmental, as
forest protection will be greatly facilitated by agreed and clear boundary lines
marked on the ground. Joint work units of the Royal Forestry Department (RFD),
the Land Development Department (LDD) and DOL would carry out this activity.
Project funds of US$5.60 million and US$0.58 million have been allocated to RFD
and LDD, respectively, for the purchase of equipment and for staff and operating
costs. It was agreed that, by January 1. 1995. loint survey teams by DOL. RFD
and LDD for the demarcation on the ground of forest boundaries will be appointed
(para.  6.1).    Another  measure  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  systematic
adjudication is for DOL to implement clear policies to complete survey work and
title production for parcels with absentee owners, inheritance disputes, or in
mortgage even without final adjudication.   DOL will. by January 1. 1995.
formulate and implement a Policy to address issues pertainina to field
adiudication (para. 6.1).
Improving DOL Service Delivery
2.13      Decentralizing land administration from provincial to district level
would be continued under the project.  Some 63 new branch land offices, each
responsible for 3-4 districts, would be established, and district land offices
would be phased out simultaneously. Each branch land office would be responsible
for about 25,000 title deeds, and would handle all land office business
previously handled by the provincial office. This includes the registration of
dealings, transfers, mortgages, subdivisions, production and upkeep of title
deeds, and supporting activities. The provincial office would perform the same
functions for the central district in which they are located, but would also
supervise the operations of the new branch land offices. These would be staffed
mainly from staff transferred from provincial and district land offices that are
being phased out and  from headquarters.   The project would  finance  the
establishment of branch land offices, staff houses, storage facilities, vehicles,
equipment, furniture, and materials.
2.14      Land Records Management.  The project would support in the short term
the formulation of a land registration computerization strategy and land office
records management plan. In the longer term, plans will be developed for the
development and adoption of appropriate legislation and regulations, as well as



- 12 -
implementation in priority land offices.  These activities aim at addressing
storage expansion and manpower difficulties in provincial and branch land offices
resulting from the land titling program. Restraints on civil service growth will
affect DOL's present policy concerning retention of paper material. In the short
term, DOL will benefit by adopting a carefully planned records management program
aimed at reducing paper size to universal A4 size, eliminating duplication of
record data,  and culling redundant file material.   Adoption of a record
management program during the project will aid the formulation of a registration
automation policy consistent with the computerization of land offices and assist
the development (including necessary legislative and regulatory reform) towards
an appropriate automated registration system for Thailand. Both long term and
short term technical assistance in land registration and land law would be
provided.  DOL will formulate by January 1. 1995 and thereafter implement a
Policy for improving provincial and branch land office land records management
(para. 6.1).
Strengthening the Department of Lands
2.15      The project would concentrate on institutional development of DOL,
with particular emphasis on human resource management and development (Annex 4).
This activity is aimed at addressing personnel needs through internal re-
deployment rather than through external recruitment. In cooperation with the
Civil Service Commission (CSC), the project would support the development of a
long term human resource program to reduce the large number of career paths,
redefine and reclassify staff positions, implement appropriate staff deployment
and training programs, and provide adequate incentives for career advancement.
The human resource data base would be expanded to assist the Personnel Division
in more effective human resource management, through upgrading and better
management of skills to facilitate redeployment from headquarters to provincial
offices and to ensure closer fit of skills to positions.  A policy would be
formulated for the re-deployment of staff presently assigned to the Land Titling
Project Office and the Land Administration Development Team. It was agreed that
DOL will prepare and submit to the Bank by October 1. 1995, and thereafter
implement an appropriate human resource management and development program (para.
6.1).
2.16      The project would support the implementation of integrated information
systems through the establishment of an Information Systems (IS) Center (Annex
5). IS will be a key factor in improving DOL service delivery, institutional
development, and organizational strengthening, and IS technical infrastructure
and policy, and management environment would, therefore, be developed.   The
project would build on the development of the land information system (LIS) and
management information system (MIS) initiated under the previous phases and
emphasize the management of information as a resource need. The IS Center would
be amalgamated with the existing Calculation and Data Processing Division to form
a single specialist Division (the IS Center). DOL would require external support
to develop policy, data standards, and network strategies, and for overall
project management and systems integration. National/international consultants
would be recruited (para. 2.23) to coordinate and advise on the procurement of
hardware and software, data capture, development and testing of systems,
training, and integration and compatibility of systems and services. Substantial
skills transfer would be aimed at ensuring long term sustainability.



- 13 -
DeveloPinft the Central Valuation Authority
2.17      The project would support the implementation of CVA's five-year
strategic plan (Annex 6) prepared under LTP II. Project activities would include
the opening of a new CVA headquarters building in Bangkok and 6 regional offices
throughout the country, a substantial increase in staffing, establishment of a
professional career structure for valuers, development of both undergraduate and
postgraduate degree courses in valuation, and implementation of modern mass-
appraisal techniques. The project would finance the expansion, construction and
furnishing of 6 regional offices, vehicle and equipment supply, and staff costs.
2.18      Under  the  strategic  plan,  the  number  of  staff would  increase
approximately five fold to over 600 to allow CVA to accomplish its goal as a
national valuation authority responsible for valuing some 20 million land
parcels. Initially CVA would focus on the urban/industrial areas where property
is more valuable and transfers most active to maximize government revenue
collection. Service delivery would be improved by creating 6 regional centers
closer to the clients. Modern computer assisted valuation techniques would be
introduced to help maximize the efficient use of professional resources while
increasing the frequency of revaluation cycles to enhance the fairness and equity
of the property taxation system.   The data administration function would be
developed to provide an efficient and effective data base capable of supporting
all of the government's valuation needs.   This would be part of an overall
information systems strategy for DOL and would include the sharing of data with
external agencies. In order to ensure that CVA development would continue after
the proiect is implemented DOL will. by October 1. 1997, prepare and submit to
the Bank a lonx-term institutional development plan for the continued development
of CVA from proiect completion to full development (para. 6.1).   TORs for
technical assistance are presented in Annex 7, paras. 15-17.
2.19      The project would support institutional development in the area of
land acquisition and compensation for public purposes.   This aspect of the
valuation function is a politically sensitive area requiring professional
valuation expertise that currently is not available in Thailand.
2.20      An important element in ensuring sustainability is to assist in
establishing both undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs in a Thai
university.   There is an urgent need for professionally trained valuers and
property managers in both the public and the private sectors, and the relatively
small number of Australian graduates trained under LTP I and II can, at the very
best, only form a nucleus of a profession in Thailand.   The project would
therefore support the development of relevant domestic degree programs designed
to train property professionals generally and land valuers in particular.
Initially, these programs would be fostered with linkages to overseas
universities and designed to meet the urgent needs of the rapidly developing Thai
land market economy.
Institutional Development
2.21      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance activities cofinanced
by AIDAB under the two previous projects would be continued under the project.
The emphasis would shift to a greater focus on the institutional development of



- 14 -
DOL and concentrate on the core areas of project administration, human resources
development, service delivery, and valuation. A total of 290 staff months of
technical assistance would be provided over the five year period.   Terms of
reference and job descriptions are presented in Annex 7.
2.22      The project administration adviser would be responsible  for the
technical assistance team and assist in project management and development of the
strategic policy framework of DOL. Short term assistance would also be provided
to assist DOL in reviewing systematic adjudication and registration processes.
The human resource development adviser would assist in the preparation and
implementation of a human resource management and development program (para.
2.15). The service delivery advisers would assist in strengthening information
systems (para. 2.16) and in streamlining the system of land registration and
records management (para. 2.14).   The valuation advisers would assist, at a
strategic level, the consolidation and future development of CVA (para. 2.18) and
in the specialized areas of computerized valuation systems and expropriation.
2.23      In addition, the project would provide an amount of US$2.7 million for
the recruitment of consulting services for information technology development.
Some 237 person months of consulting services, preferably under a joint proposal
by international/national firms as specialist skills are not available locally,
would be required. Broad TORs are presented in Annex 5, and detailed TORs will
be prepared by the long term information systems adviser to be provided under
AIDAB technical assistance.
2.24      Training.  The project would support a considerable investment in
staff training necessary to ensure the sustainability of technological changes
introduced and to improve the efficiency of DOL (Annex 4). RTG and loan funds
would continue to support scholarships for local undergraduate courses in survey
engineering and diploma courses in valuation, and for the establishment and
operation of new degree courses in valuation (para. 2.20). RTG funding would
also support short training programs conducted by the Training Division to
upgrade staff skills in areas such as management and administration, surveying,
adjudication and computing, and to facilitate redeployment of staff. AIDAB would
continue to provide scholarships for postgraduate study in Australia as well as
funding for specialized short term courses, study tours and work experience in
Australia.
Studies
2.25      The  project  would  finance  the  follow-up  socio-economic  and
environmental impact studies (TORs presented in Annex 1, Table 8), for which
baseline surveys would be undertaken under LTP II for the more commercially
advanced provinces in the Eastern Seaboard and for those provinces in the north
and northeast. Conducting the evaluation surveys during LTP III would allow more
time for a measurable impact of land titling to emerge.   The project would
provide US$508,200 under a lump sum contract for about 30 person months of
consulting services (40% of total costs) to conduct evaluation surveys of the
socio-economic and environmental impact studies.



- 15 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Organization and Implementation Arrangements
3.1       DOL is the executing agency for the project.  The Project Director
would be the DG, under the supervision of a Project Executive Committee (PEC)
chaired by a Deputy Permanent Secretary of MOI. PEC is responsible for overall
formulation of policies and coordination with other RTG agencies. Within DOL,
a Project Administration Committee (PAC) chaired by the Project Director oversees
project implementation and monitors progress.   Various subcommittees, which
report directly to PAC, cover specific areas as monitoring and evaluation,
valuation, and technical coordination.
3.2        Proiect ManaRement.  The Land Titling Project Office (LTPO), under
the Project Manager, is responsible for overall project planning and monitoring.
The Project Manager is closely supported by the team of AIDAB advisers who
provide technical  inputs.   LTPO  is a temporary  office  of DOL,  attached
organizationally to the Planning Division and, as noted in the PCR of LTP I, the
uncertain status of that office has contributed to a high turnover and generally
poor morale in staff. The status of LTPO would be strengthened under the project
to improve its capacity to manage all activities related to the national land
titling program. This will be achieved by restructuring the office and arranging
for the Project Manager to report directly to the Project Director within the
organizational structure of DOL.
3.3       Land  Administration  Development  Team.    To  assist  DOL  in  the
institutional changes envisaged under the project, several task forces have been
set up. A specific full-time task force is the Land Administration Development
Team, assigned to study and recommend actions for improving land office
operations. DOL would continue to provide support to the Team.
3.4       Arrangements with RFD and LDD.   DOL chairs a subcommittee of PAC
(Forest Boundary Subcommittee) for coordination of joint activities with RFD and
LDD in demarcation of boundaries between forest lands and private lands. The
subcommittee, which includes, inter alia, representatives of RFD and LDD, is
responsible for preparing joint budget and staff deployment programs for: survey
and demarcation of common boundaries; monitoring joint activities; and resolution
of operational issues involving jurisdiction boundaries which affect project
implementation.
3.5       Other Organizational Strengthening.  Ongoing efforts to improve the
organizational structure and management of DOL would be continued under the
project. Although CVA will have the most extensive changes, there will also be
significant changes in other areas.   The commencement of the IS Center will
provide the corporate management structure for IS policy, planning, standards,
and information resource management. The decentralization of land administration
would continue with the creation of new branch land offices to take over some of
the work of the provincial land offices, while district land offices in the same
district as new branch land offices would be absorbed by the latter. The present
system of sharing administration responsibility for provincial land offices
between the four DDGs would be continued under the project.



- 16 -
3.6       Staff Recruitment.  New staff positions would be created under the
project.   However, this activity is closely linked with the human resource
management and development component (para. 2.15), which emphasizes skills
enhancement and staff redeployment. No new staff recruitment would be required
for the 63 new branch land offices to be set up under the project, as the 1133
new positions would be filled by about 437 staff from closing district land
offices, and the remaining 696 staff would be redeployed from within DOL. The
15 new field adjudication parties (690 staff) would only have temporary staff;
the adjudication teams would be disbanded at the end of the titling program.
Apart from the branch land offices, the creation of new permanent positions under
the project would mainly concern CVA, which would require some 574 new staff.
The civil service staff recruitment freeze would not affect the project, as
project approval by the Cabinet exempts the project from the freeze (as for all
specially approved projects). CSC and DOL would work closely to implement CVA's
staffing requirements.
Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
3.7       The Project Administration Committee, supported by LTPO, will continue
to coordinate project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), which is being
strengthened with the introduction and application of computerized project
management systems. The planning and monitoring capacity of staff from LTPO, and
planning and technical divisions is being strengthened under ongoing training
programs in this new technology. The MIS established under LTP II will also be
improved so that it can be used more effectively by managers. In its present
form, it aims at achieving too many goals and needs to be redesigned to provide
more focus on key data. Feedback from provincial and branch land offices has
also underlined the somewhat excessive time needed for inputting data.
3.8       Environmental Monitoring.  In order to provide adequate monitoring of
selected factors impacting on the environment in the short term, DOL's semi-
annual reports would include: (a) reporting on progress of demarcation of forest
lands adjacent to private lands being provided with title deeds, including a
statement from RFD on the level of encroachment on affected forest lands; and (b)
LDD reporting on progress of identifying steeply sloping lands (slope greater
than 35x) and status of encroachment on affected slopes. The socio-economic and
environmental studies (para. 2.25) would provide sufficient monitoring of factors
impacting on the environment over the longer term.
3.9       Proiect implementation reviews would be carried out semi-annually by
PAC, and reports would be action-oriented. DOL would send to the Bank its semi-
annual reports within three months of the end of each semester, and within six
months of final loan disbursement, DOL would prepare an implementation completion
report, incorporating the results of the socio-economic impact studies. Together
with AIDAB, the Bank would conduct semi-annual project supervision missions; a
schedule is presented in Annex 12.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
4.1       The total project cost, including price and physical contingencies,
is estimated at US$206.8 million, of which US$46.8 million (23%) would be in
foreign exchange.
4.2       Project costs, summarized in Tables 4.1(a) and (b) and detailed in
Annex 2, include about US$181.1 million (88Z) in investment costs and US$25.7
million (12%) in recurrent costs. Investment costs include costs of civil works,
aerial photography, vehicles, equipment and materials, and costs defined as
"title development costs", which are costs not financed under contracts for
vehicles, furniture, equipment and materials and are defined in economic terms
as capital expenditures needed for creating (but not to maintain) assets in the
form of a new cadastre and title deeds expected to produce a stream of benefits
over a number of years. These "title development costs" include salaries and
wages of temporary staff, travel allowances, vehicle and equipment operation and
maintenance, staff accomodation and office rent. Recurrent expenditures include
salaries of incremental regular staff needed for improving DOL service delivery
(at branch land offices), strengthening DOL capacities in project planning and
implementation (at headquarters), and for property valuation (at CVA).
Table 4.1 (a). Projed Cod Summay by Components
Local  Foreign  Total  .......c.. F oegn    ToA
improving SaMe.  370.3   07.41. .     . .     2. 6              ........
Ow.eiQplng OVA  211*   112.4   3843  1-0    4.4 n          . m..
Technic.) Asistan     2,810*  162.4  1,03.4   14 ig70 2.    18.3Si  988l  38 
Ovate... Training~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...
Lartdf 'ln        W .Wl3l: i:!.,lj 30-4              AI            { : 0
TSLtudie          13W.0   0.0:  10   05    0,g0      i0,5  tl0      03:2tt   
Con tincie--s 
Pr'   e C ont'i''''e''''''''  " " "9 '-:'0-7-:   '   .   ,   . 9.................. ,.   25.1  34. ..2. 11  ...
- . - - :. - - - ' -: -:.-                  .'i,':-'.::....... ....   ..i' -j,'--i--:--j''i,,',,,  ....... ........... ..j
4.3       Cost estimates  for civil works  (buildings),  aerial photography,
equipment, vehicles and materials are based on 1993 unit costs and recent
contracts let by DOL under LTP II. Costs of consultant services and overseas
training are based on rates of local firms and AIDAB estimates. Physical
contingencies of 10Z have been applied to civil works and aerial photography, and
of 52 to equipment, vehicles and furniture. Price escalation for both local and



1-h :0 ct 39 39 t% C=    n  0  a  4  0  C- la  AS    "d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Q  (
O    0 0  0 cn    o    n c ih rA n                                                                            ii.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         q n  
-M               0                                                                                                                                 . . ....        . .........
m                                                                                  pi 0                        go
a1 _A 0  a,    rt 1- 0  tA. - WL-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
_A
0  n  am  0. F&    co co   F n  0  0%                                                                                                .N,
09  w   rt              0  0                n             n                   n                                                                                                                                                                      . ... .. 
fb go               ft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    pi  0  a
0
kg m  FA. U  as a
40                                                                        .       ...    .....
00 ct la  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
rt i-                             O
ID  n               1-1- C6 n                    40           ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n                    ID
0                                                                                         OD p                                                                                 f                                                                                                                                                                co
#I 40               a                     0  0  1  I-,                            ct
ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n            rt
OD rt C_-
CD
:3    10    rA      rt    I.&   OQ                    OQ    t&    0                       :3    1-6                                                                                                                                                             .......... ...... .......... ..
OQ                                                                           rt
vi,                  a              0)           13  n                            OQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ID
ID    0        O    a      rt                           F&                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......... .                                                                     09    F
......... . ....
0
ID    n                     Co    ID                                                                                                                                                                          .........
Pt 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r- 5                 n
P.                                                                  rt            0      0                                                                                                                                                .................             ......
0
ID
O,                   0  n                rt
rt
rt CA ElH  M  rt "h n                                                                                                                                                                                 T 
40  -w, 1-  ID                                                                                                                          lx: W.-I.. ''a
ID  la  0  0  O  O   i_  O.                                                                                                                                                              .. ....                                                                                                     n   ;J  F- M
0
wb00
rt F_ rt rt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
'14     rt           1-h   n                                                                            .........                                                                                                                                                          rt                         09
lb    Ln     F J    n                    0      M      F  -                        I-A          0                                                                 .................  .............   ......                                            .........  ..........   ..       .....   .....   ..  ......
............ ..... .                                                                                                 (D    0)      0
..............      ......I......         ...... ...
0   fD  ID  PA. 1
(D    -4   0                                                                             0      (D                                                             .... ...
......            ... .                  ..........         ......  ... .....               ......
...     ....                                                                                 ..      ...  ...                                                              tA.
n             ct                         P             n      5                                                                                                           ......                                         .................
.............               ...............       ............                                                      ................                                                            CD     n
co  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           to
FJ. IA.                    &
......    .....                                                                            M      rt   ft
..........                                                                                         ..     .......                                                                                                         Fu
(D                      a                    b                                     ..........                 ......     ......                 ............        ........
. .. .. ........ ..........
F4    r t                                                                                                                  .......   ........................ 
pi    (A    n                     03                        .....                                                                                                 ......
. . . .   . . . . . . .   L. . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .                                      . . . . . . .  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .   . .. . . . . . .   . . .   . . .
. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .  . .   . . . .   . . . . .   .                        . . .   .   . . ..   . . . . . .. . . .. .. . . . . . . .
n             rt           ID                  00                                                        low
rA   n O a O 0
ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O
0     0)                                                      I-L           (D                  :3                                                              ...................... 
...........    ............                                                                                           ..........  ..........                     ..     ........
(D            n                                                                                       .......... ..........   ...........                                                    .........   ............                                                                                                             M      ID     M     t
O                                                                                         rt                                 .....    ......
(D                                   L so    rt  OQ    0             n                                                                                                                                                                                   ..   ............                                                               0             r
0             ID                                                                                                                    .......
. . . . .             . . . . . . . .   .
n
=1 0 0
40    a'   1-h    H ct                                                      P) M  M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
FA.    ID  _l                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AD                                                                           11  M                n  0,
(D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
OD                         ID                        09                                                                                                                                                      X.::                                             .....   ....
M            lb     H      :0.   0)    ID                                                (D                                                                                                                               .........
.................
..........  ..    .....................     .....................                                              ........                                                ........                                                                              c o
. ..... ............     ............                                                                             .......... ....
1-h   co                                                             ct                                                                                                                                                                    . .......
I   I  to    O              0     CL                                                                                                                       ............                             ...... ....... .......                                                                                                 M
4 0                                                                       .....................
................
....................                                                                                 0      tA.
F-   O                                                                      0 M 
.....                              .....
rt                                       rt                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........
:.X                                                                                                                                         ID
..........
ID            tv                                                     co                                                     . . ..... .                                         . . ..............                                                                                                                                n      La
10                                                                                          - :
!Q C; 0 W
...........
-6                                          ..........                            .....     .......   ........                                                                              . ... ..                                                        a  ,          ID
....          .........I...I...   ... :  -
to                                                                                                                   ...     ....                              .......      .........                                                                                                      ........
n                   (D   -0       ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
.......                                                                                          40
----      ---------                    ...........    .........                                                                                                                                                                                 (D
.. ..............                                                                     ..    . .... .......
-4                                              0  1                                                         _..
0.  :3                                   M             clt   M                                                                                                                                                 .   .   ....                                     .... ......
t-A.
M   lb                                   rt  0                :3  :3              M   M   (D                                                                                                                   CA ... C>
.. ..........
rt O                0                                  rt rt                                                                                                          m. 
C6M                                                           0             O  'P. W                                   ."L.. 
rt                                          ..............................                                    ........                                                                                                                                      M
._       I  . .,     ."    I   - - '.  .  .  ,    .  .  .   '.  ,        ..     :  :,:  :    X :::::::::  : ::::: ......:..............
....         .......   , .,    ..           .........
..............................       ........................  ......
...........   ..................................                ....................
-      .     ...... I_ _   ........     -   .I..                             .   I: W.W.T.,
......         .........     ...     ..........
09                                                n 0    10 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n
ri                          n      0                   F-A                                                                                                                           ......                                                                                                                                ct            rt    -P.
Ct                                                                                 0                                                 .......                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
ct0    OD  0    ct                  O    0    n                                                                                                                                                                              ..........
..............           ..............                ....    ....                                             .........  .......                                                    0
a,  1)    rt                      93                   ct   (A       ID                                                    .....                                                                           ....
'14     n                                  0                   0      F.A           C6                                                                                                                                          -    I'll                                                 t :: : ::::: ::j:::                                  rt 
0                                              ......    ......                                         X                                                                                                                                                                 M
FA- iD                            rt Cl    0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M  M  pi %O
' t                 r t    0      rA                                        ..........                                .........      .............                 .......                          ..........j..                         .....
...... ...... ......... .                                                                         . ...... ..... ...
P Po                                                                    0      0                          -.,.....,                                                                                                                                                                                                           n
- .....   .......                       ........            .......                                                                                                                                                               ID
.............  ...............      ..   ..............
,q                  Cr   10               M     M             0      JA. 09                                                                                                        ..............          7;':,l 7 I I I d                                                                                                                                   ct
00                                                                                                                .. ....                                                                                                                                            0
.....    .     .  ............. :-X :X X-X :--:                ........
. . . . . . . . . . . ..                                                                             . . . .                                        . . .
.... .. ....
:3    n      O                                                       n      :3                                                                                            ...................            ...............
0ID    rt O                               rt                   M 10                       llh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n
........ ------- . :':': ... :-l-: .............
n                                                O                                 FA .                        ..................................       ....    .............     ....      ...  ....     ..     ...........
........                                                                                        F -A
ct                   ID                   M   I
0 0                                                    .....                           ......                                                                           .    ..........
O
PA                   PA                                                                   ID                        . ....... .....
in    m               n                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
0
:3     O      C)                          :1            0      ID    0             I-A   n                                                                                 ...........                                       ......                       .......
O :3   aQ                M                           a      IA.                                           .......  ... .............                                                                                                      .  ... ...                                                                                          (D    rt
..... ..... ....... ...
r't         09              0-            o             n     0                                               ....... ..... ..................
0                                                                                      ... L'-: -'! : ': ... !':- -:-:--                                                                                                                                            r-     1.6
Po rt    (D                               F ct M                     0  P-    PA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
0   :3    n                                                                                                                                        .  .....    .....    .....                                                                                                                                                          clt    rt
T ::X oi....
0    0                             C) O rt Fj n
ft                   &4 rt I a0                         0  0  Ln F-A                                                                                         d.
.......... ......
............ ......................
to                                                                                                                                                                                    .......                   .. ....                                                                                                                         :3    m
IA.                 1-6   0                                                                                                                                                                ..........                                                                                                              n      ct   c           a
:J  n                                            co  ct                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -t-o  n
ct   0-h ct W  Ph M OQ I-A M - - 



- 19 -
Table 4Z Financbng Plan (SS lUon)
rrO     IBaD     AIDAB    TOW.l
Civil Works,                    2.5      14.0             16.6
Aeridal Photography                      9.5       .      9.5
VehkI;hst Fumiture, Equipment, Materials  11.4  27.0  .8.4
Title Devetopment Cosb          39.9     60.9            100.8
IS Consultants                           2.7              2.7
Local TraIning                  2.6      3.8              6.4
Technioal Assistanoe & Overseas Training  .       6.3     8.3
Studies                                  0.5       .      0.5
Recurrtent Costs               25.7       .        .      25.7
Tolw                           824       118.1    6.3     6J
Procurement
4.5       Aerial photography,  estimated to cost US$9.5 million, would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance
with "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1992).
Contracts for vehicles and equipment (estimated to exceed US$ 200,000 each),
amounting to US$16.8 million, would be awarded on the basis of ICB. A preference
margin limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. The Bank's standard bid documents would be used for ICB.
Civil works and boundary mark stones supply contracts in the project provinces,
totaling US$16.5 million and US$17.0 million, respectively, which would generally
be small and scattered in time and place, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), in accordance with RTG procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Other contracts for equipment, furniture and materials, estimated to cost
US$200,000 or less and amounting to US$2.6 million, would be awarded on the basis
of LCB. To the extent practical, similar civil works, equipment, furniture and
materials would be grouped together in the same tender for reasons of economy and
efficiency. To provide flexibility, prudent shopping with a minimum of three
quotations would be applied to small items each costing US$25,000 or less, in an
aggregrate amount not exceeding US$2.0 million.
4.6       Title development costs, amounting to US$100.8 million, include costs
of salaries, wages, per diems, travel allowances and rental housing for temporary
staff and office rent, for which procurement is inapplicable.   Consulting
services for Information Systems (US$2.7 million) and socio-economic studies
(US$0.5 million) would be procured under "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" (August 1981), after inviting proposals from firms
short-listed by DOL and acceptable to the Bank. All bid packages estimated to
cost US$500,000 equivalent or more for civil works, and US$200,000 equivalent for
vehicles, equipment, and goods, would be subject to prior review by the Bank, as
would final award of contracts in these categories.   Prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the



-                         -                        -  -                                - -                                  -  -                            -                    --                                                         -  ---                                     --  ----  -    -----    -- - --  -------------  ---  --------    -------------                                                                                                                                             -
oiqns 3om 77
.                                ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
leool 9 411m Al losilp pajoei3wo aq ol sesinoo asiBep uo I ionl OA JO 3uatu4s I lquise jo; uoiiiiw z-Lssn sapnlou I  75 
Buiddo4o 3uspnid Aq sumal ilem JO zusminaoid
JO; uOilliw  0'2ssn Pue  1931 ispun sauo4s liew Aiepunoq  JO zuaminaoid JOk uOtlllw O'LLssn somioui  A 
..
I. I .1.11.11.
.......                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....                                               -        :             II
............ :::: . ...... -,,----.; ::
......              ...              .             -         I    .        .        .                                                 .I
....                   .                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                                                                                     :. .... .                .                                                                        ,4.'1,.,..             .. -         I..          .   .        ..   .
-i          iy      :.:,:::::::;:::     j                                                                         ]::                   i:                                         :iiij          ii ]:i::.,-.                                                                 ::::                                                          ......                  -.-,.- .-                          .1-                                               .
...                                                                                                                                                              .                        ...               .. I II
....   .                              .           ..'....."....'..".,."....   ..                                                                                                              W                       9-                                                                             ::,:::::-                      :::,                        -m                  -. ."......    ".....-                                                       ..I                                      I
:. ... ... I.... I I                                                                                         :R                   ]:i]]..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
..: I...                                                                                                            - .......   - - .111.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - - --,
, .1- - .1 .........                                                                                                                  . .-.: :-                                                            :. :       -,                        ,...                                                                             ...'.....             ....                      ..                                                                                              ,.    III
........                                                                                        I.                                                                                              ..                                 .     .             :               ..          -                  '::.,...- .-             :                 ,.                         -                   ::::             ::::     :::      :::!::::::::              : ,: .,;,,:,.: ,:    ........,.1
,::  ::                                              .........,                .....-              II  ...                                                                                      .,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -I                                                                .
I               . -                                                                                     :::  I                  .                                ,". ..                -                II                                                I          I II   - '.
-                                                                      -.1-1-                  ::    :im                              ::'::.:.:.                       ::                                  . . .                                               ,               -         ,II
..                                                                                                               1.11.1-                         .......                                                               .                                                                                                                                                I.I                                                                                                           1,

i
.....                                                                                                                                                                                                              .      :k                           ,......'.......                                                           ..,.,.,.:,::.:::.: :.                         :     :::        :     ::                  :         :;:.:::             :     ::       ;    II1,                               ,
..-... :.,.:. 1.
I  1-1. I- ,   ,........ ,....'....'.....'..........                                                                                                                           .....                                                 : " ::.:                  ::      :                  -.-...:.:.:.-.:.:.-..,:                                                                                                                                                                                      .        I
.:1-..-.:.-.-1: .........................I                                                                                                                                            ...                         ,,::."..x             ':              :  ...,:.....-......-..................-.,.-..                                 ..-.%   ...   ....                                                   ..:.             X     :   X   :X          ::           ::-          X:                   :.".....,.
:1. .X::-I.: .::: ::::: .:.:.:.". I. .... ........ .........................
.....                 ..          .        ..                                                                                                                                                                 ..        , , , ....   .-                 .  I . .%         ....... I,        .   ....%,       . .                                                                                                             : :-:-: : X              : :-: m :: :       : 7: : XX    ::.   r: : : ::.: :   - : 
:. :-. .. . 1'0                ...::...   ': ';           :    :' :, :     : ::     : :      : : :   : :         : :    .         ,:                                                                                        1. ..... . ... .                 .1    ... .   . .   .0      %  :.:            ': -:, :-   -,                            :                                                                 ........I........                                        ...I............   -  ..  -x
-   -:-:* :i* ]:i:   I   ,:,-?":".   ",                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,      ,.  .          .   . .   ,-                                                           ::                                                           ... I  . I.                   ..    ... I . I.  I   .
.I . .   I .%             . ......  . .%             .-      . ... . ........          ............,                     .., ...,.,........,..                                                                                                                                                                                       . .          : :             .: 1   :.:        : :   : :  :::: .,.:.:         :: :::::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : ,                           ::::                    ,  :
..            .......                       .-.....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                                                                                                                                                               .,     .-...  . .. I ..
.. .... ..... .                     ..... .... . ..... .... . ... .                                  ......                .1   ]ilii i: i; ii$                                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
.                   --                                                                                           ::    :   :1:                                                                               ::,:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ...I
-       -   -                     ..            ....               .         .      .        .......                      ..   -          -   -   -         -   -  ..       -                       ,:::  1:1                                                                                                -. ..  .            I:                                                                                                _.                                                                          .
................                                    -        - ::::::,.:...::::::::i.,.:i:.:i::   ::,.-j::...-.'.,, .,] .   I I .   I I .   I....I: :   : : .: :   : :                                                                                        :       ::.                         _,.,.r,',','              1,11,        ,        ,       - - , - , - ,                -         -,       -        -    ,    ,          I...I . ...,    . ,   ,14 I,, ,'.- ............
:.%-            ...                 . . . . . . . . . .%  ..%  .. . . .::                                                                                                                                       ,).(    Y.                                                                                                                                                               ,            :': :,:,: :    .. ..    ...    ..,,    .... ...
. -II...  .... . .   . . .   .                                                                                                                                                                                                             .   . .         : :        ::  :::, :::                              .:                                                                    - ::I::   .  : 
.%.. .............. ......,.,.........,.................................... .....,;..."...".....'.., .. .. .. ...::....I. . . ...,.II.... .....I.1 .. 441'...",-.
,:::::                              a   ::,::: :::::- -                                                    -              ..                .....           .               ..    ...              ........   '...... ... I    I. .... .... I......... ........                                                                              1.                     ...:-            -        ..                    I          r:::::! ,--::..:- :-                                                        -     
.    ...                                                              ..                  ..         ...I::,                                                                                                                                                                         ::      :.                                                 :       .                                          .        .       .     .
..                                                                                                                                                    ,:.::-:-:::.:. :::-:::-:::-:::-::: ::-:                                                            :              :,::::::                        :           --         .-                  ............ - -                                 -             .....
::.:.:.:..,.),.,t .". i  I  :.:..:.:.::.,*.. ., "' ,:-. ... ...........:
%:.,:,:                                    :  d                           ,: ..:                                 : :: ::::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .....                           4000 400446006
:.                                                                                                                                        ::::: :,:::.                        -         . .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .....                  -     -    ......                    ..... -......
:                  , ::,  .:.:,I           .           .      ....                                   .:::.:.:.::.::,:::.:::                            :          :-               I                                                                :N -        l    '......                 ......".. '...-                                     .  ...
...                                                                              %          .-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .: : ::::::::::::::::::                                                  :     :::...,.                                                                               I
..... ..                                                                                                                                                                                                     .....               ..........                                                                                                                           .   ....                ..                         .      ..        .       .....            ....
I :              :                :.:.:.:.:.:.:."                                                           ...........  "                          .          .     -        .........                           ..........                  " ." ..." '.,  ._             ,   ......                  -     ..........
::::: pk::.F ..:::::::::::::. ,-.-..-...-.%..                                                        -                .               :...              ..      .      :.. %::   -.: . :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          x
,                  .                         ...            i.l.i.i...         .:..:.i,:,.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.::.:.::.:.::.:.::.:                                 .' ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .     .             '...           .     ..         .            . .'...I.I.........".-
..... ............... .............................. . : .: ..
...........I.................. .................... .... . :. .,::::::::::: :::: :::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:
.....                 ..       ....                                :     -:      -:             : :-.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........................... -                                                                 ......
.:  :::::::  b                                                                                                                                                               .!            .,::: ,        '.,:::::: :  :  :........  .  .                   .  .  .  .  ..                                                               ....                                                                                         :.          .  ..:.,.:,.:., .:.1,:,r   ,1, 1,1,1.1,    .1,1.1.1.1.1.1.1,1.1.
...............................................................                                  . .   .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .                               --                                                         :.  .  .  .  .  .  ......  ...  ...........  .                                                              .              .                                                                 :_.... . 4 ..1.1, 1. .- 1 ."..'. ...."......,
.I... .  .   .                                            .        ..-              . .  .          .  .   .                           .:.               ,       .         :,:.%:,: .  .  .  .  .  .   . .  .                  .  .   . .  .   .  . ....I..              ..........                     I.                .     .          ..                                               .  .  .... .                                                         .   .  . .   .I. ..  . .   .  . .  . . . . . 
. . . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ., :,, ,. I. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .I . . . .. . .:1-1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I. . . . . . . . . . .I...I II. I .. . ..I. .II. . .I. I I
:.::    ::,.  ..   ..  ..   :..:                                                                                                            .                               ::      ,                 ,,:.:  :.:.:.:,: :  :  :.:,:,                               : :: 0              : :  :  :  :  :  :  :  ,.:::......                                                                                     :  :  :  :   : :  :  :         : ::::::::w..................               .  .  .    .    . . . . . 
.         .  . .                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . .. I  .    .1"..".                I    ..
:       -    , -             .-                                                                                           .        1..                                                                                                                                                                        -,i    i.           ".   '.  ,    ..               I:,:                                       .:  :    .:  e:  ::         ::.   .  .  .  .  .  ..        .    ...  ::::  :    1,   I., . . . . .
:           %.   .-.%-.-..                                  -:-:-:-:  :.:.:.:.:.:            :.: :-  .:                                   -       1. X                         I,:  :  :  :                                                                                           :::::::,                     ::                       -              -.:.:,:.:.:,:.:.:.:,::                                                                                             .......    .    ...    ...... -   .
.......                      ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....:...                      .-.-.--          -     .:.          *-..- i ]i]                                                                         ........                        .....
: :::    ::                                                                                                 ..                               ..." .                             .        X .                 :::::::::::::::!:::!::::::                                                   ::::::::  -                         :  ::..,.       --'        -i,      .,-:, i .                                                                                                      ........ .,
..-             ,                 % .    ...  .%-.  . ..... .   ...                    -                            .............I............... '.,.4,41    ...  1. ...I...                                                                           -        .     -           -    .11 ...
.      -        I                ;.: :             ::::::::::::::::::::!   ::::::%                                                           :::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ..,        ,"... ,.,  .  ,  .                                                                                                            
.:::,.,::::%:::.0: """"""""" """ .". 1. :::: .. -.... .......... ... ::,':i
I                      -                                                                                                                                                                                .                         -11.                         ,
I.           .... 11.11                          .                       _                         ... ..                .....             ..  ....... ....I........                                        .             .-                                             -.                                      .... -            -     .....I.....                           .........1-                        1 .....I.....                             ..I............I....I.    .....    ..
...... ....                                 I........                         ..      .I..............                                   .........                        ............... -                             -        -             -             -       -        -     1.            I.........                                                                ,  .          .....   .....   :    :   -  ...,   ,  .     . .::  ::.   : :.:.....                                                  .
.       ..                         ..            .....                ..          ..                 ,.::::::                     ....  I.               , ....                                        .....I...............                                               I.:..                                                                                                .lo                                                                                                                           i
-   .....,   ....  .  .         ................   :, :.                                                                                                                :x " '.                      : .::.::,.;k           : .:::::,.:,:::::::::                                : :.::::::                  ::    X :          ..      -      ..         .                              ::::::::::::ii.;
. :.: -:: ::::::::::::::--W:% ........ ::::::::: X.m.F.I..-:::. .. .. .:.
''
.':                                                                       -.X .%:.:.%.., '.........:                        -..                                                               :::"        ::;::               :,:::.:: :                     -      :                                ::     ::::;  -..                                                                                                                                           ,          :,....
...            ..    ....                ..          :           :               : ::.:.                                                                        .         ..:O
,::,:::;;:                                                         ..                .       .........  :::,...:V                              .w                     -'.   "'.'                                                                              .,:,                                   :  :    :::,-,i.----                                        .-.--.:.'-'.:-.--                                -            m.                               .:  ..    wd -P10,00                    ;
 :-          :.'::           .:.:,:.:,:.:.:::-:x -.`                       ...........                            .....                    .                 I   ......                       .          ....           ...        ....         ...                                -    ,        I  -      I  -     I....I....  ...                          ........'.....w...... O                                                                                                                            R
:,:,:,:::::: :                                    ..       ..       ,                                                                                                   .............    .....I.....                                          .     ...       ...       -.
..... ;.::::.:,                                                          .................                                   .............                      ....                                                          .       :... -           .....:                   ..........                                                                                                                                                                                                 .                 ..
111.1- 1 .....                                                                                                                                               ...... 1. ..-:1.---:                                                                                                         ..:..'........"..                                                                                     ::.:::    :.::,:.:.:                                        -:-.-P                 ...............                
...... I   I.... ... .............                                                       ...........                                                            ..       .        : : ::                :.       :.       ..      .    .......... % ,..%                                                                       .....                                                                                                                                            --             .....   -.1.1'1'1
o..   -.-          ..   .  ..                ........  ...   I.....I.........                                                 ....,...., ..........                                 .........                                                                                                                                    I  I....  .....                            .............I.....                                                                                                               
....               ..........I...... ...... ... I                                                      .                    .........                          -           .:...         ... ..         .....                  .........                       ..                    -                              ......-      ,        ..        -     ................                        ...  .'...'..'.'.'.'..-.-....:..;.:,...:.,. ..                                 .4-4.                  no      .
::::            ,::.::::-:,             ....,.....,...,..................                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..:...,........:....:.......                                                                       -         -I
............... ....                                                  ---          ..       -         -      --        -       -   --               ....                                                          :      :    ::                                                       ., - ...,.....,.,.,., ,-                     .         -     .1           1.                                                                                                                 .....
:    .:         :.,,.:::%,..-i.,::".,ii:],'l.."                           ,................I.....I                                                                                                                                             .          .         -   %:.         .:.-   '.   '    ...."                                                                                                                   -     -     -        ........
:          ,    -       -              ::::'::                                                ,   ,I.......                                                                           .......... I...... ,.-.-                                  .-1-- .                                                                     ..    ...                                 .... -            ,- .,.,..,                                                              .                I                  -        :t.
.,                                                                  " .            -   .     .,       .........................,....                          ..................,......-..-.-..-.-..-I                                        :.--.. ..:...                .                                 ..                                      ....."....".........","...".""....% ...............                                                                 
...                                                                                            -%,                                                                                                                                                       .     ..       ..      ..       ,          -            ,      -                        I.         :       :X                                                      '',........,...........".,....-,...                                                   
:                 :::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
d,                                                           ........ .'-'.    .m                                    :::.:::.:.::.:.:.:...,..,                           .-,-.%''%.-,.-,-..l.%.-.-..-.%.-                                                 ...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..   -
.-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --.    -!-.                                                            -.1        ........1-                      1.1-          11.....                  -       ."
,.-                                                                                                :::::::::::                                              "     '          ,     ,        -        ,        ,                ,...                                    ..         ::i'...-..-....-.i.i,"':i       :::                                      :::::X                ::X        :X       ::    ....                                                                                       4
.:....                                                                                                                                                     ..    ......                                                                                                                              ....."..y '.-                            %X m.-..:.                 :.      ::                                                        ......:,:,:.:,.:,:::::::::::                                 :
.            ..                   .:              :        :::          :::::::.::::          "        .,:::: .:..:::  -..::::  .:!:  :              : ::       :: :: :: ::        :.   ::::                                         .:  X .:  :........                                                                                         ..   1-                                                                             .       :  :::  :.: ::  : ::::  :  :  :  :  :    ::  :  :  :  : :  : ....
-           I.                    -      .                            ...             -      :.:          ..                                                                                                                                                  ......."..',                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
I .-.... 11 . .....I...... .......... ....... .-......... . . . .............. .e.".., "...."...........,....,......................, ....,.. .......1...
..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -           . . ..                 .       .    .   . .  .    .   . .  .           -   :  :: ;  ::              :        :  :      ;:   : -  :     : ::;        :    :;   .......           .               .        .--------
.                                    i]]    i]:iiO                               i:::i::,i,i:  i:::::i:]  j                  ::x    j                               j:j:j:j::.:.:.:.:.:    ':...                                                                                :..:        ; :                                                                                   ...-              Fil    1-1.11.11-111,    1-                                   1
......                    X     ... , :                :   ... : :   : :   ... ...                            :        :                               m:           ....                                               11 1.1-                -     .... ................    X                                           :     X       1:    1: :               :     :1    :1          :!      :       :.                        - .- ,
...-                                                                                                                                           ....  ....-                     ....                                 ...I......                           ........                                                .... :.                     ..     i   (.1    .. ]::::.: .    .: q. .:.:.!.,    ..:                                   ... -.. ........ ...... ...... -                                   -
...                                              ...               ...............................                                                             .           .       .  I.            -      .     -          .1    .1               1.         .
-...I........I                                                                                                                                                                 I...                   .              ..........                           ........                     :......               .......                :* :.                                                                                                                                                                         .
.. .: .i.-W                                                                                                                                                                                      "                       :                                     : : :: :: : V ): :: :: : : : :: : : :: ,                                  ,-                                            .       . . . :: :.:: :    : :-:--.......   -                                                      ,. .-, . ,-, , .", I
.....               . .0            1ii.  .........  ... .  .   .....  .  .  .             .-                                                                                                                                                                                           .:: :   :.: :   :.: : X              :    - ..: : :-          : :-   .1     1.    -          .... :::; :    :: :: ..:..  -:i*    : i* : i.:.:   - I . . ... . I,    . ..... ..'................   . . .   . I .....'
.%-.-.%-. .%-. V. ........ ..... . . ... ..... . . .: : :: : i: '.., " " """', ,,,,,, ,-, ......'..'.......'.... ..... ...... .I I. .....-....... 1. ,.  II.......... .... I I .."..I. . . .. .1..-
... .   . .:.:. ::::::    :                     :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:.:                      . .    .;:.: I.: .        I     :      :     : .:.
.                                               .:..:,:.::.:.:.;.:.:.                  ..                  ....I.... I.                                  I.     .          I          r :           :            .                                                                                                              -      ,
.,                                                                                      ... ......... I.                                .    -....,...',
-    "'                      -       ,    ..   ..        ...             ..           -............ .........    ... .. -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .....                  ..   ::.                                                                ........ ...I........... i : : :::1,
.      ,"                                                                                                         ;          :. .:, :..:.:.:.:.:.   :.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.                                                                                  .       :    ...         : .         -X .                                                                                                                              ..          .    ..: ::
..: : : : : :  -, : : :: : :: .. , : : ;," " ,::.............--- -,,
_,:--,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :... .-.                                                                            ::-1
.               % ......                                       ,..                                                       -                                                                                      -.                                                                                          ...... ..........  ::::   :" :::::    .:::...., ..                                                              ::::::::::::   ::::               :::::::::::::::::::,:,:, ,-.' -00                :
.::%.: :,:;.::.:.:.: :,:.:.:.: ::::.,. :::::::, 4;:::::
-             .                    .   ::.:.                            .:. :                                          .: ":... -:--. --:i:i:::i:i:   :::."t                             ."t .:,.-'-i:::i:.I    .::::::::::::::::::::::5:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r
.      X :Ir              g       . .. -W                                                                                  .a ::1:.-::::::::;::::.                                                                                                                                                                                                     -:::.:-:-::::::-:.:.:.                                                                                                     -    ..                       .
.     :        :::::::                     :,::::.         : :        -        ;...          .,.."....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
-:                                                          .:         -    "::.:.::                -   -,                                                                            ..... .................                                                 .                                                                                                                                                                                        -            , ,-        4.                            .'
.:,                                                    ,                              .. -            ..........                                 .....-                   ......'' ........I......                                                   .I..,........... .,........,....,.I .......    ::                                  : :                                                 "        '             -           "     '                                     ........                             .
-1            '- . ......,-:                                -:               :.:.:.:":        .,:  ..............  -                                1.1....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :::::::::::.::.:.::::::::::::::::::::;!:::::::::::::::                                 :::::::::::::::::::::              .  -,-- -  ... -.1."'..,  I........ ,--                                  ..              ......                   ...                     .       .
..               1 : :           ::::"              - ,            ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..........    .... ......I.    ......-
... .. . . .I 1-1.11.1- ... I I................ ......I... . ... .........
-.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .:.A                                                                                                             ..                                                                                                                                                  .
..,.:.:  :.:1:14 4                :           ,:":::   ::":  ".  ,!":,                             -        -       ,                 ,...,   .   ,   .                        ,::::   :;:::   ii::iiiit6ji:i  ii                                                                                                         ]    ..-                    )    ,...- ..,...-...........    .,...,.,..........,.....,.,.,.,.........."..,.,.....",.,'...''...',  . --                         .
...............                   .        ,  -::..  ].::  ]::.     :- i.    ,:i::i]::t.,I ii::::::.:                                                    .`:.:.    j:::j::j:l.y                    ::...:,.,...,:,.                                                                                                                                .              ...........                       ......,.....,.....".,.",".,,                           ,.-      4.          .   ,
...             .      ..         I.                                                                                                                                                                     .           I             ..                                                                                                                        -1. ....                                      ..    ...                                                                                     .......,
.         .                    .          I....    -           -           .......I                           -          ..                                             .....                 ..    1.                                II                                                                           I          I. -
.....                        "     .                                        i.............:.   .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .   .-                        .....                 .....          ...              ..1-      1.    .          ....", .  ..  ... - 4   -                 .   ...
:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
........'...                      ,           ':::-::-:-:-,:-:%                 :-:-::-    .:.::,.:.,..:. :. ::::':                                ':    :    :    :    .,:,.:::.       ...                                                                     ...... :::I :lt.:::::::::::::::::::::::::                               ::::       ...                    ..    ..                                                                                                                             I
..                      .          ..                                                                                                                                      :::              :     -       .       -          %-- -   ..    ..%-..  I.                                                                                             ..          ..    .......'....  I...                           .......'..'.....'.........  1.  I...... 1.  I  ''.                                            
........                           ,.-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....                  .....          ...        ................. I....I..... I...                                               
.....,      ...............".,                                                                                                      ::::,.::.:.:::                       .:,.:    :.:         ::;:                      ..  I  -               -     .          ......                                                                         ......                    -              ................                 :     : ... ::::                 :  -           ," .                   ,        ,       ,
I.::: .... I.......                                                                                                                                                                                                        .............    ......4'..."..'.F ..                                             .....                 ...       .                                                                                                                                                                    ,
::; ::i:]:..: i]:.-` ,.XX :.-,-.::.-: ..:::::::::::::::.:.::... ..-.%.-.-.. II...................,......................... ...... ... ... . ...
:           .          ...                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..            .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
,
:1.                                                                                                      ,:;R.:.:, -                            -   ........  ..                               . ......... X. , -   "'                                                                       ,    ,                      -                  ... . .  -                                                                                                                                                         l
:             0::                                                                                                                                                                                                            . I.  '.                                                                                        I I...                                                                                                                                         UP    v,
:FF : V.:::::::::::::::!:::::::::: :::: :!:: ::7k:7::::::::::::: X:::: :]-:::::::::::::::: ::::X,::,: :::rii:;-,i ii54 ,O)OA0.
.       .        .                         -..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......                     ..      .-X::: ::, - .   . ::" ;::  ,   ,; ::::;::  :::::::!::::::::::::::::::::::..... ..-.-..% ..% ..% ....I ........- ......    I.  I.  ....  ,,  . ..    I.
-           I. I.......... ::::::::!:::::::::::::::::                                         :::::::::::.!#                       .............. I..............d                                                                  .      -. .. . . - - -                                                                                                                                                                                              -        ........ -P                               M
..........                     -     ..................                                             ..............:-                                                                                                                  ,       :r                                 :        .::                       -                                                                                                                              .........                                                     .
.-.-.-.-..-.-..-,-.%.-. ... ................................................:::: : :X., ::.:- :::,.:,.:.
.....I.....................  - ..................... :::::.. :: ::: :::: ::,::..:..::... . ...:.P', ...... ......:.1,........,,,. .......,.....................".....................-.-.-.-.-.-......................................."......................'.............''......................
.......                          -           .       -        .....   .                 ...  --                    -        ..   I--  ...... ...    .-                                        -                 .          --  ...   .......    .................................. -                                                                                                -                 .             I..                 .                   .        ..    I    .   .                            .
........                       ....................                                            ...................                                       .   .  .                   I..''.......... ......                                              ........                       .  ..           ...         .....             I.....                    .  -        ....I........                               .          ......I.....I.                             ..........I......-
.                                                                                                                                          11 "I'll                                                                                                                  4                 -.-   . --. -                            - ---                        -
:.:.:.,..: .......... I ........,.......', :...:.:.:.:.:.:()iiiiiiii::i::l:]i:iiii:ii:ii:, :1 ....: .. ::;:, ::,.;!::::::::::"::::::"::::,:::,::"::::,:: ::::,:::,:::.:::,::..::::.:., , , - , - - -.". - - -, --,'.,II''.".1'.
....         -                              -                                                                                                                                                                             -   ..   -       i      '...,it i iiiji.::                                                                                                                                               ........ .......,.....'........................    ....-   ,
:.:,:....                                   . .,-d.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .1.,.   .-- - .
-                                            -       -:::-:-::-:-                                                                                                                 -      .,          .::        --                                                                                               -        ............... -                                         ................................."...,.,.,...,.,.........................                                                    
.-.-.-,.-:U             -*                :           :;:::::::::::::!:::::::::                                                 .--                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..         ......,...'........................                ............I ............ I--                                        ....,...,.,.,.
.... I. 1. I. I I I I .:,%:,:,:.:.:.:.:.:..:.:.:: '- .:.,:.::,:..:::]i:ii::i::::]:::::::]::::::i::: ..]:v.:::..::::::::::::;:::::::::::. ..,-.....,...,.,...,.,
"    ,                 -                                                                                                          .             ...                 .       ........                  .      ...........                          ......... ..".4-                 .:    ......                                                                                                             1.
.......I........                                                                                   .        ....          ....                                                                                  .                 . .-                                               ,.....'.,......,.....,.." .                      ......I ... -                        1.            I....... ....                   ...-    ..... I..'' ....... -                                           .           .
.......                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.,.:.X .                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....   I::::::::iI-                                       -
.........................                                                      .  .-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....                .......             .............                           ........... 1.1.11,:.
::::.:.4.1...14%.."-..:.,..:.:'., , , - "'',,::: .:: .:.::::::::::.:.]:::::::.:::::., ............,.......................,...,., ,...-, .... . .- . . I 1.,.
-                 -                ...           ..             .:,:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.                 .:.,:::::::::::::A :.,.                  :::::         a.        ..'...           ,]].],.,'-L        !.Z        !::::::..:..:.:..:.: :":::::::::::::::                                                                                                                                                                                      -               1.        -.z                              V
.....                             -        .................                                      ...                         .. ..         .., ...... -                              ..                                                                                                ::-::         :-:-::-:::-::-               :.-:-::-:::-:                :-::-:-::-:-:-:-:--:-:-:                        :-:.:.:, .           ..' -                      . . .                     -,I..       .
-       .1-    .               .     .....            ..........                    ... ...  I....                          ..       ............I..                                ... I         I..         1.
:":::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7
......                            ....               ..         ........                                                                                                                                                                                                              -     I.-           .1-         -    ...                                                                                                                         ................I
...... . .... I I... %--......... ............... , ",::::j:!:::]::j:::.'.'..::::: :::::::::- -:17-:1::..:::..1::!'4 -, ......... ..... ,......- ..........'..,.............,...... ...... ............., ................ '.'1,.,.,.,,'1'...,.... . I... .... - -
- .............,.......''''.....,.... . ..... I.-.-.-. I....:,-....... ,. ........%
...                                                       ........:......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .   -    .%   ....................... ." ..    ...    ...   .................    .
....................... .......,........ ..... .....'...,..., , -::::::::::::::::::::;::::: ]:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .....:q ,-:qqR::::: r-X-:X-::] :::-::::X .. ... ..........''.... ..
..            .     .....              -                              .......                      .                          --                                                                                                                               -.................."                                                                                                                                         .,...,.,........"......,.,.,.",.,.,,..,...,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,......"......    "...    I.
.............. %.............................    ......................1...-                                                                                                                                                                                  - .1-                1.           - .1-        1 .....                     -        -        .......                    .                                                                                                                        -
.......................... .... ... .........I I, ". II..',.............,........... . ..... . ., -'...,.,....,.-....,. ...'...,..'......., .....,.,....".........'..".... 1. I.........,.....,.....".........,......,..,... ....... .,...,.,..- ...'.1-1 .1- I .1 .1. 1. . 1. .
.,::          -            -           " .          '4'         :jj.::::'                       ....--..:.::.:                     -                          1.            11          1.         .1             I     -  1-    ....    I                  11.1.              I     111.              .1-           1        .... :.:                                                                                                        ,    -                                                        
     '.'..                                      :        ;      :      ::       ,    1.   :   ::        :::%,:::::,::                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ::::             ::.:                                                                                      .   '..........'....  I...."..,.,.....  ...                .
.q .                                               _                                           ,..,.........                    ...]:]::.:.                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....:..:7,                                ,   "'   ,                             ..... -.1-1.1                                                                 -
...&                               ]'.,'..'.`,                                 ..        .                                   ....I..                     ........                   ...                I           .:..   i: ::::]- .                                                 ::.::.:               ::. :::.            ,.;.:.                              :: :.::!:, ::!, -,                                 - -                                                                                 .
........ ...  I ....-... I I I.... ., ,....'.........
-X        .                d                  .: :,%:::::::::::::                                 -                    ,      . .          .........."..                          . ...::.: .                   .           ...........                          ........                     -        .........                             :::::::::::                  :::::::::::::::::::-                                                ' ' '                                                          I
...          .,:!w                                                                                                      .              ..                     ..... %.                              ..                  .0                                                                          , , ,           ,  ,           ';;  ,:, ,  ,                  'o                                        .X:                 :            :          -..-
..:.-:-.-...-.-.-.:.-: .%......... ;::: :: ::::;:::::::::::........::::::::::::::::::::::: , . '...:: ::.:.:.:: :,.,:":.:r, ......, .... . .........-.........., -...,... ......... -11 ...-.... .............. :,::,X,:.: : :-::-:--::.i I
..............                                .                                 %.:                                                                                              ;.............-...    -                                                                                                                                                                       .1 ...........                                .........................  "...'....,
......:.:-                                                                                                                                ::             ,          -      -, ".z.                                                                       II    .............. -                             .........                     -     .,.,, ..,...,.,...,.,....                                                                                                                              ...    ...
:.:.::::::::::;::::::::::,:.:..:: ::::::::::::::::. ,I... ....I... -- .11.1 .... .I
.0   .           .-          ........ 11 .                            ...           ........                .!t.,.:i...:..:,.:..::.,.,.:j   ]:..:]]:]:;.t                          -j v :::-::,:                                                                                                                                                            ......'.........'.....,    .......  I........    .-                                                .1 .....               -.....
...                                                                                               .. ....                    .I                                                                                      1.1'.F ...F                                                                                                                             'a                                           :.         :*
.:,   ,   %                      .:::..::                                                                                                                                                                                                             -:.            ..:- ::   ::. :::.:                      -       :   -:-::-:    .:.::.:.:.,                  :,!::::::!:::!::...:!:.:.!.::: ..                           ..................................  - .- -..,...::.:: 1: X:   :: 1O"*VI 
..             ..                 -           -                             -         ..I                                                                                                                                                                               .           ..          .                                                                                                                                                       ......                                           ...'..  I
...:.....               I           11          ....  ............                               ...  .         .....'...                       -           -     -           ..            -           -     -         .......                   ....       .:-        ..........                                      .....                                                              ..... I    I  I  -                    ,.......,"....."                                .  .......    . ,            -
...             - 1       *     """....",".,..,.",.,.",,."....                                       "..,., ...........    . ............                                               ...... .         ...       . .....-                                                                            ..........                                                                                   .::::::.                            ' .....,....""..'..,,,1,1.." ...  I    F.   .   I ,-.         I
....-                             .,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
............ ............. ....................... ........... ....... .. ..
-                       :-::-::::::-:-:-                               -::              .::         ..  -       ...,                   .                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::::::::::X              :::::::::                                                                                                                         -
,::::                     .......................                                                     ..      ... -        I.:.:.:..:. .:  -:                   m          : : .            -       -       -  '    -  ,      ,       ,   ,  I.   -             " .                  ,     ,      -        -       -         -    " '     ..       .... ....................                                                   ::: ..........-                         ..    .... 1.1.111.111.1 ...I...    I...
-                ,           -    -                  -    ,                    ,    ,    -    -    ,    -    ,    ,                                                                              ,                         ,
...                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .                    .                      ,                               -      . .. .                     " "               -        "    '                ........                       :.,-.,%-.,-.-.-.-.-..,.-,                                                           .
.....                                 ........,.........................                         ....                                ..                       ::: ::                             .:.::               :          , ' :'.  I.,                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *
...                               ..................                                               ..       .    ..                          ::-::-- :-- :::                     ::'...::                                                                  - :::' :;:: :-::: ::-::--:                                          .:        . ........       .".........            ."      ..'.'..." ..'-.'-.                                                     .....................                         .
.....               .        I.            ...................                                       ..... ... ....:.,                            ::                                    .:,:: ::    :    ::w:                              ::::              :                   ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .
..:.:...;.. .:, .:.'..,:..:.:,:.:,:.""".......,.......,....."....,.''................. . ix..... . ......... .X, ::..q-:.:.:.F..:.:-: :: . - ... .... I.......... .....-......... I I,.1 1. : V.,
I.   ...                    I   .                                          -           -           ...  -            I  I.  I.  I.......  I                              ..,           I..       -      ...                 -              -           -    .. ...............                           I ...       .     ..           .                                                                                                                                                                        
.           r                                          .         .       .I..                                                                                ..        .      ...........                           .      ...                                                                          .   ...           .                                                                                                I.1- 1-                                                  -       1-              --1--
::::::.::: :::!:::::, :.1 .... . . ... ....... -.. .. ......
...:.--.1;.-- .... .... ............ .. ::!:. ... .......,...,-, .......".'....'.y........ . -..: :.:,.:....:.]]]]i:::il::11l::]:i]]..,..., --- - - ,
-          .-                              I     -           -             ,                                                                                                                                           .   ....   ...                             I.
.:    :--::  .:                    :          ::X     :::-::::::::    :::::-::::,:-:-:::.................,.    ..., .....,   ...", , - '...  ,, "., ." .....                                                                                ..    ......"             .                                                                                                      ,           .''."..." ...,.'..,......ll',,.,    - 1- 1                                      1I1II.-11
-    -        .-                                                                                                           .     .....                                                        I.            .........I...                            ....          ..    1.         .... ..............                                     ...........                       ....    -                     -    .           .        .    .        .       -I
..... ... .....                            ... 1-            11-            11.11.    ..........                                    1........    ..-                                   .-                ...           -  .........I                         I....I              .            . :         . 1.: I                        I.            -        -     .          .............                              ..........  .....                      -1  ..,  -              ..  I I...  
:::,           :-                                                                              :::            ::                    I        :::          ::::        -    ..       :  ::          ..        -           .        ...                                                                                                   ..       .,                                                                          ....                                 -.I I II--
:1.          . -              I.....                    .     ..    . .-           I........                            -..                                  .          ..::    x                                                                                                      :-:F        ::::::                `---..1--..1.-..                 ...  I  1.         -         I          ...  "1,  ..                    ,        -       ,     ,I,
I.-           .......-                        ...               ....,             .,.,.                                                                                                                     .:                           ..,...  %........'.4 -                         -              .       .        .-                                                                                11        II.I..
::-                                                                                              ::."                 -..                                                                                                                                           ..I,Y : ...:                                                                            .                                                                                                                                                 -
-                      -1,                                                            ::           ::: (.-) ::                    :: :::                  "            :::::-.'-. (4                   :::   ,--'..`--.    .' "..                                                                                                      .,                                                 -                                                                                                         ,  ,
:::.-A           a                    ::::'......,ii:                          ...i.                                                                                                                                                                                       ;:              :                                                                                                                                                                                       I
-                                 .1 .... .."    ...I                                                              :::.:r:.:::-:::.:-:::.:::':.:.:.                     ::::::                                           -.:.-.-.:.:.    ..:.:.:.:.:.:.; F.:....                             .-                            :.:        .w            6    )                                                   ..  ...  I.  I                 .    -    I.,    I.,    -                   .    I    I   4   -
......   ..   .                              ....                                           .11.1 ....                           ... I.... -                   1-                I... -          1-1.                      .   1-1-1-                          -I   .-
..........                                    .          ..........-                            I          .      ::.:::                                                                                     .... :.:,:.:,:..                     I.             ._                                               _            ,     ,,      _    ....-             ......                    ..      .........                     ...... ..........                                          .....    .    ..
...............................                                                                 .    .                  .........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .
::::::w,j6::-:-::-:-:-:-, .." :: ...i.",:]:j::]::]:::]:,.,.:.,:]::]::j:::i.".",."1"...........,...............'.."...... ... . ........I....... ..........--4., 1,-I I... ... . .
.... ................ ::::::.:                                                                                                                                                                                          :::                                                                                                                                                                                ..  "I            ,.
,.              ..:::::::::::k::::::::::::: .:'.:':':                              -                                                                                                   .......  ,.".".....,....,.,..,.,.,..."..  1.  I  -:
..     ....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .           1.      ..       ..:-
:..........                         .....             .             -%-                                                                                                                                                                                -4 -':                                                                             ::::ii. ig:;ii   :::::'::.:.:,::.:.:.::,:.:,::::::::::.:,:],::..                                                                  W
.w:                                                                                                                                                                                                   .  ..            ..                                                                                j.,.5:::.......-              .          I.        ....
.'I.:::::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .1.                                                                                                                           - ...,...,.,.."                                       1K            da
......                 .             ..:,.-.-- :.:.:.:.:::::                                         :::  :            ,.........                        .. - -....   ......                                  ,..   -         11.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :
.-..::........:- .. . .-- ..... ...............". ".,..,.,.........".......,..%.,..%...,................,..,.,...,.,............ , - -1.1 .............. ............ .....,..'..".....,.".,,..."".. . .. ....... ......."
.           I          .        ,:                       ...,.......,.,.".,.........,.''.                                 .......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ... ..     -I
.:1.........,::.:.,: -............. .... -X::-,-:-:::: - -, .:.,.:,:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::]:::1 ::::::::::::r ,- -- - --- -.-..-.,-..,.,-...,.,."...."............,.",..,.,.,.......,.I ........ -- I.. I....I.. .. . ..... .I...
.............. .................... ...............................,.....,.....,.....:::::::::::::.,:::::. .- ....... . ... - -..'.,.,.,.,'-
..,.....,.,...-            ..-               ......                   .%     ,.....       .           ...         ,.,...,...,...,.,........,.,....,.....,.,...    .., ,.....                                                           -        :::-:                                                                                                              :         7!X :::::!--..-.--              ...-.             .... -                ",.....                                                     I
... ...... ,"....". ........ - .. ..............,.,..,.,....,...,................. ,...".., .........F., ... :::: .::.: ..: :: :: :::::::::!:::!::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::: : : .,..-,...,.,.,. ,.-,....-,.,.,. .-.,.,...:.::!: :]:]: ::!i:,%**AUOOI :. ..
...  ........"..'....." ..........                                                                                                                                    ......,   - .......                   ..'.b.l......'....                                  -1 ......-...                                                                                                                 .............    .......".,...."..,.".,.....,.,..,..  I                                              I.. I -       .
.....                                      ......... %.....,                             .,        .................".........................                                                                                  .....  ...                --                                    -        ..........                         ......                   .    .............                -                                     .......                                ...I.
:::I.-.:--'-:-:  ..             .:.,:          :.:,     -    ,   ":,:  -   .:.;.    .;.           :.:.:,:::              -:-    ::-::X       :X       :::X -   I,                     ......'......................"...,......                            .."....".,.,.........".......'.....,.,.....,                                                   .1                           .11-              1,      -        ,............  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .....  .  ....... 1.,..    ......'...'
. ,                .........    ..             ..    .                    -::                          .:::--                   -        -  .............-                        ...............I......I                                               .-                                                                            -              .          :.:..:....:...:..:.!::::::::::!::::;:::    :::::::::::::::::::  ::::::::::::::::     :X                                                       X
.. .: ::..:.. . .  .:: ... I. _.... .......--. ,1.1. r.1.1 .,-.1,.,1.1,.,1...1,1.1..., .,.,.,.,".,.,...,.,...,.,........,.,........., ,............ ... .1 ........... I....., ..... . ...-
.       -        1.               .:, .......... -                                  ....             .                     -     -       ..          .    .        I              .    .-.. :,](I.) ..    i-,.:::::::::.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
. :             .                                    "        '                               ::         ::'k                                                                                                      ::;::..:                                                                                                             : .:                                                                                :::::::::::::  :  ]::::::::::::::::  I  I  ...  '... ..    ,,  .   1.    .I.,   F
-          '    ::'..4:::::               .           ...   I.  I                     -        ... I........                            -                                       ..             - ...      ..                                                                                                                                                                                    ....
:-:              :-            -              .,., .....,..,...- ..,..,...    , ..                             .                      .           ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -        II.
:                    ,                                        --              ...                  --,--            ,                -          -         ,    -       -            ,       -    ,                      ::..:::'              :.,       ` i                                                                                                                                                                                  ...............                  ...-.%."....    .,F'... .... 
.:                                                                                                                                                                                   ::                             ..                    ..      I....                      ..                  ..........                         ...'.'.                                                                                               ................                   .................      .1-,-1.1..,..
.,                                                                                               ..........                            ...                                         ..                                                                                                      .....                           I                                                                                                                                             ...."...,..   ,,II
IV                 v #                 -1.::"1                ,      -1-     .1'.1         . ........, I.   - ...l.", .........-                                                   ...                                   I. ...              -        ::::-   4                   4      Y        :::']::'':.                  ::. ...        ... I.-               .. -    ...-..........-                  ..........I...... ."...'..""..-                                               I...-.1-1II  I
: .                       ..... ..... :.. , ,1                                                                                                ......... %.                            ... I................                                                              ....7             :....                                     ::::::    ::.,- '- ".,  '.."-'                                                                                   -1- 1-1I---. 1'
:: ::.::  - -:X:-::::-. ..... - ....... ... .... ..... ...............'....'...... ...... ............-'.... ...., .,, ... ., ,, ,,, -,,---
...I.....I...                           -     ...   I....I.                           ......    -               ,                   .-
-                   -                     .....-                 ... : x ::*]i]il                                   ..,.i&     .,Z        ]]]iii:                .                                                                                                                                                                                 ..            .....   -            1           -     I           11
...  I.........   ... -                          -:::::::::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I-
... .... ...-.....-:::::::::::,-)!:::-:::,:,::,
.                                      .                         .          ..       ......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .     I         -      1-    1.                  .            I..          ...      -            ....           .        I  ,   ,    II. .
,I .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -.1 1 ,                                                               III
....4 .12                             .,...,.-.,.-.,.,...-                                  .....,...........,".-...I. I... -.1 ''...-                                                                      .1-.... .:1-::::IX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
... ...'.                   ,        ..,....."..,."11.11.,.,,,.. ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .        .:        ..          -       -        -         1- 1-            -        -I    ,..
..   .... ...... ...........I....                                                                  ......... -                     1-                      .1 ......   ...  .-                                  -                .... .1.1-." ... -                                                                                                                           -                I...                         -.1.11'.                                      I                     --              -
.........................                                                          ...      ..                                                                                         ..... I..                 .               --               ...                                                                                                      .......                  ..       ..      .......              ...........    -                                     .1..I
-           -                -        -....                                                                                                                                         .... -           1.1-I.....I.........  I...                                                                                                                                               .,....              .                                                               I-       -          I.-                       .
.................., .......... 1                                         .           ..      .:.:::::::,:::::::::::: :::!::::                                                     -..........                                                                                                                                                                                ............. U                               '   "...F.".."',  I  I'                  1.  I  1.    -                           1
.................................p: :::]:: ::::-:: q::.. .. .I....... "I.".,...",..."....,......,..,...... .b..I.I..., -14.., I.", 1. I I 1. I." "I''., I 1 F-1 I I ." I . I I I- . I ..  .....
.......... -- ............ -..-..... I I..... I--
......-I. ... ......- -.11.1 I... 11.1.11.-I.''. I .1.11.1. .1
::::::::                       jj ::]-..                                                                                            .....             - ..- ,...                 "......",",                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....1--              l'.            .-1 11                                    I
.     ... ...                   ......                                      :          :                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..I                                                                                                                                                                ..
.           ......                                                ::            ::,; ::                  W         :;:::: :::::::::::                      ;::;::::                                      ,.,...,.,.",.,.".,.'              ..."" 'I                           I                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...
.11 .               .....                                                          :                    ::              : ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..
....,- .,.,.,                             ..',.......                        .                   :::..         -.....F.F.....'...                                                               .,.F.,                                                                                                                  .                I        .   .             1.   1.                  .   ...
..,..-...... .. .. ..  ........,.....::,(-),:,:, :,:i:::,::: . ........(O..Olo:..'.....................
A" .,.',i] ]]:..ty
I       .                        ...              ::.:::::::::                     :-:    -      -:-::::::::!:1 :A ::::: ......    - .1.....                                                          .                  - ....:            :           :::.:::.W             :::             ::::::..',..:...:..:..:                                                                   .,...1.....'- .-                   -      -                         ...
..         .           .                               .                 .        ..   .                                                   .                                                 .. .            -                    -              I        I       -                     .                                                  .1                                    I                                          ...
-             . . .                                     . .                                                                                                                 ....                                                                                                                                                                                                   . .-                                                                     I. -
...              ..      ..    .1-            1 .....I..........                                        ...       .1 ........                          ..-      ....I....                     :::-:         .--         ....-:                                               :                I              .             .           .1                                               .    ... -                        .       I        I        .I.III....
.        -    ...........                              ..........                   -     ..            .........                  ,                       .-                .  ...................                                          -        ...            .................                                     .  I...... -                 -     l-       1-         1.1 .....                    .11.1 ..     .  .............     .. I... ....I...  .  ..    .......................  ..........
::::Cle ::::::::::::::z:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..f.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;,,:.:::::.::;: ,:: . .....
,......- I ........ - -   .......                                                                                                                   ........                                                    ...':            9 .71 ,                                                     ,:                                                                                                                                                                                         I?,:::::::
::                         ,.. .'.".............. ........"......."........."....,....,........                                                                        X .                                    :::::,:                            ....                          ]]]:..'i                            ,                                                                                           :--                 Woj                                                      !
.1   .                          ...... r.                                                                                                               ....    ,.   , .:..::..::.:.::.; .   .....:.....                                                                      .:                                             .,:,..s ',9 i]i]]]i   ]:,                                                                          *441                                               I
::,:  . .I,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
:::,..,.::-:::::::::,::::"::::,:.:" -                                               .-                ..               ......               -        -      -     -     .% ..%   .................                                                 ......                                                                   ...                                                                                                                                                  ......-....I.... 1.    1..I.
-        :1 .....  :...,:.::                     :-:-:-:-::-:::-::::::;--::-:::-:                                       ::::          ::              .."  ::,.:-' ."                    '::.,             ...:-.-....:.:.:.:.:::.::;.:::.:.::.:.::.:-                                                                                                                              .... :            .       .          - .'- ..- -                                                                          .
:::::::::..  '-'  -  -                         .........   .  .  .  ..  .....    ""                  -         . -         . ......,         ........" ....    ...........                                              1.            I.I..''.                .1            -.                                                          ...
.. .......I....I....                                                ...... .                -    ..................                                           ......-                ..             .....I....  I...                                             .: ... :.:::::.:::::  ::::::::                                   :::::::  :    ...                                             -            ..         -     .       ,..         -.I  .I                                                      .
. ::          ::::::::::::::17::::::::::::   .                                                            ...                                -           -         ....       ,         .,.  ...  -      -    ............                                ..       .....,,                                                                  ...                                                                                                                                                                .
,           ,                     ,                                                                                                                                 .-                                                        .            .       .        .        .        .       .             ..
..               - 11- 1-                   11.           ...''..                                                                                                                        ..
....          ....                  .......              .....                  ....  I          .1 ...........I                            .....               .
-:  :                                                                                   :.:::::                  :::::::::::::::.--..-                                              ...              - ...........-                              .-                "'            ,    ,    ,    ,    ,     ,          ,          ,  "',                                          ,,                          ,    ,            ,
........   1.111 .                                 ....            .1 ... I .                                                                                                                                                                               ,.....     - -               - -          .,   -                    .          I.",
.: . ..... ,:..:.:.:.:.:.:,:.:.:,:.:.                        :.:..::!::::.;..   :::::::   :    :   -:-                                                    -                  :   .,. I..,." - ,                        , "   -        ",   "'            "           " '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
-.....  I.  I  ...                                                                                                                                                                                      -       ....  -          ...            -  -       -      -  -        -            .            .     ...           ........-                       .......               ......                    .           ....,I                                                                                   .
..........                      ............                                                                                                                                   .........    ......-                                  I................I...  ...                                                   .   ....              .           -       .............                                  ........              ...    -            --I.                                                       
.-..-.-...-..-.'---'..::,.:..":.:,::.:::,:,.:I::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::]:::::::::::::.....,...,.,.,.,.,...,.............. ....",.F., ....I....... - I... ...... ............... ............ . ..... .. 1. -,,II I- .
..............                                                                .................. ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . ..........                             .-    ...........I                                                         -..                                                      1
I.             .        ...... -            -    .            ..........                        -        -     ....                 .        .............                             .............                         .............                               .  I... 1-             1     ,          -        -               .1 .....                  .        .        .I      .        .        .     1.              .            ..      .       ..    .        .
....'..'r.l.l....'.'.....,............-... . ... I I. I 1.  .. ................,.,.,............... ..... 1. ,...... .1. .......'...... ,.........- -.. .............'.... ...'............. . ,..- 1.1-1- .. - .1. I.. . ... . . .. , .
1.  -        I... -                 I    I  I.... 11                      11         ...  11 ... I'll.                                .......    11.1                             .   -   4-          .                        .            .               .                                                                                                            -     4.            4.       -     ...
.....                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,
;                                             :i.,:'::::::::::1.V                                                               ::::         ::::.:::::X                    :         :             :                 :.             ..:`:,::    1::::                   ,.V      .j ) ::::::  ::i:::    4::::                                          ..             ............                         -::-          :.:,:::--.,-                                                          -
:.-.--       , :.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :::::::               ::]::;:::::::::::-:::::  ::                     ::: ... :.:.;.:            .:.       ,.     ;.: ........... .                          -.-                            .-                                                           -
..             ......                .        ......                    ..       .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..               .            .       .        .        .    .,
...           -               -               I                 -           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . ,.,
.. .(O.ii):]:::i::::i:::::::::::il:i ::::O::::.::.:::: ::::
]i]:i...                                                                                                                                                                        ........                     .........1                                     4       '              -            ::::,::,:::::::.-.::0                                         . -                """'                "   ""       """' , -'''''''    ""' -,'.
....., , ............1--............ .. -. ....... .....Q::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::;::::::
.:       i....".                                                           .                  -    ......                     ...     ...... ....,                          ....,..............''......,.                                                    .::.....:: .:                ::::::.::.:.::.:                    . .:         .:....-                                                                                                               .......,            .., ,                 '
.. .:;:::.::]:::::-':::i.,::...: :;::..::.:::::::::::.::.:::::::::...,...',
-;:                                                                                                                       ::                  - '.. .., .-                     I   ...     I  I.   ...  I  I.....                    ...                                                                                                      ...                                                                                                                                            . .  .
-      ,:                                                                                             ::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::l.::::::: ......                                                                                                                       :          ::.:::::::.:::.::.                            ,  ,,                                               ,  ,,..    -                                                                                                   
 I....... .- -...... - :........ov:i:::i:i ,...,.,....,...,.,...'".,............,.......... ...........,.,.........,.,.............".....,........ .1.....:..:-: :.:, .... I... ........... -
:                ..::                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             :,.":.,::,::,.::                        ..    ,      ,        ,      ,   -  ,  ..     ,      ,        ,                ,           ,          .
:          ,                      :,   ..       -ili,,i,--.: Iiirii]              li:::.,:..:!:i:::]:j:j:                                                                                       .....   il                i ig                                                                                                                                                         ..................                                          ...                                 .
.19-0              1                  .         .,                                                                                   ... .... I I..                          .............                           ,.                                                                                        .               ..........                       .I...I......I.....                                                  .......,'...'.."."...                                  . I .   .. I... I 1..
,  ,      . ,          .          -            , -                                                                                                                                                                    -        -                -.                                     .         .....                                                                           ..........                  I ..............                   .. -  -      -...,......-             -                 ...".'..
:: :..:..!..:..:..,:::::;:::::::::::::::!::::: . .......-...........,'.... ...... ....................::..:.:: I...,.....,.....,....".,.,...,.,...,.,... .... .............. . ..1-I.- .....,
....                .-        :::::::::                    :::             :-:     :                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..,.., '.- -                                                                                                                                                                   I  I  -  I  -   I..................
I...............                                             .              . .                                              .......                                                      ........ % , ....                                .....             ..      .. 11 .......                .        -           -                      ..       ..
....       ..      ..; ........                            .....         X                      -  -              '.- - - ......            -....-     ..- ..............  I....                                      ......               .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....              .....    .
........ %..                      .                    ,.,................,...,.,..........,::,::I ,.......-.-.-.....-...-...  I  I ......    1-                                                                                    1.            I....I...  1.                       .1-        1-       1.1-              1.1.
.....-                 ...               ...........I.....    ..                                      .. ..            I.......... 11 .                            ........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..
... ...I....  .............." .                                          I......                 -       ..........                             ..............                             ...         ..       ...     ....                 .  .    .., .........                                  -            .................  -                          I .........I..........                                            ..       ..       ..            .        ..
..::-::-::-X:-:::; ::.:: - , .. - -'..  :.... ...............  - .. ... ......'. ... ........"............'...'. I...................... . . I I . I I.....-.... I..'' . ... ............ . . ... . ............ ................ ,.. . I....
.....                     -                                       .......                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....
.    ... ... -               1-      1.1         -     1.1111 .....                          .........                    _..                                                                                                                                                        ........                    ..       .....            ............... ::::::::,:::::::::::::::                                             :!::             -        -            ,-..- .:    ::  ::;:  X:                  :
.-          .....                  ..    -        ...                                      ........                  I.........                                                                                                                                                             ::::::  .                           ........                                                                                                                                                                         "
......-                   .......                      ..    .         .......                  ..                                                   .......                   1".....".,. .".,....................                                  ................'::.::..::::,:::::                                            :::::::F:::::-                                  .                                            ....  -        I.           I........    .... ....- .. .                  
......                    ............. % -                           ......                 .........,.....,............................                                                   .-.-                                                                                                                                                                                                       -    ...                                 .....                   .  ''....'....'.....   -',-           I
... ................. .- .. .. ..............-.... ... ..........................  ............I.I..,..""....".....,...,....  , I . I I ...'..,'..- ........ .....-" ..... I ,-, ,- .,.. .- .., .. ... . .. ..... -1.4F.''...1.111.1,
.................................................,.... .......... ...............I...... .-11 ....I.... ....................... .......... ............... .%- ..........................  I-- ......., .- .. . ... ....... ..
....................,................................,::: : .::-::::X:::::::::: :::-:-:-::::::-:-:::-::::: ......"....,.,........."..",.,,,.I.".....,..",,.,."..,.,.%....,.,.....,..,..',,...,..".."'......'...'.,.,.,.,I.I.....,.......,. . . - . , 1 I 1 I 1. 1. 1 "."" I,,
..-                       ... -                 I    -            -      --                              -          .1-1                          I.... ... ....   ........1-1-                                                      1   I--                      1.111-                     .         .                                                         .            I
........ .. ... .. ....... 11 ..... I ....
....I.                   .......................... ..                                            - ...........                                        .              .             .I                                                             -        1 .1 1                     I         ......                    .1.                                                            ,      :.              I           -        .....I...........   -                                            ......  I
..                                                                                                      -                       ,                      -                                                                                                                                                                              'a
..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ......                  -.....                                                   -                   ,,  I                                                              I
...                                   .1"                           'i*:::::::i:]   i**i:j ,d                                                     ,..:.-.:.:.:   :..:.:.                                                      j           .:      . I ...::,.                                    .                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
I .          .       .                                        ,...:...                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ''       ,
..-O                                                              -.1.                                                                                                 ..            ..         ..                                I          -   1-       -       ....:                                      I   . :::..:   ..::-:   :   q'.                                                        . .         .   --                             .I...                                                     I
..*.  oi :;::::- %:-:::---*::::::: ::: . ,::.Mm: ::: :: : :::: ",:: '.... I....
.,--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .                          .m                   .,                                 .4, -                   ''."'', '                                                                                                                                           .
,':
. '................                                                                                                                                                       .....                    ,           %       : , :         :       :'    .       .......                 -    ,        -,            ,  ,           ,     ...               ...I
. ..............,...:.:,:.:.:.:.:,:.: .......................I... ... ,:......::: ..... ....
...                                                                  -X      .....':    ..                  :     :.:.:...:.:.:...:..              .                     ...   -     -,          -     .        .       -    ,.-.-- -.  :     :       :      ;     ::;;        I:                                                         .. :                ..-                            :4.   ..  r..                "         ,....:                                                   ..... -:::::::
-.... -                                                                                    . ,         . o..                 -       .                                  .......
.......'...'.....'....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...                                             - ......             ..-       ...,.................                 .                        .       :         .:     : ..  ,:        :    ..,         ..       ...                      -
............., ...'.....'...,                                                                   ..      .            ..... :..::,,                                                                                                                                                  ...                                              I,                              ,:.                                                                              -.1:                                       -        -::.    -
.                                          .................                                                        ....               .       .. %     :-:::::::                    , -:::..,                  X    .-:-- --:::.-.:..    .....:..:   :..::                            ...... ;.-..                                                                                             ..                           ..  ,     11                                                                        .
(Umn $so
?W "POftw3 PmuQm*wd Aq auqpuocbc3 PqOld -Vt OWL
16en 
9tj:j Lq MOTAS-2 ZOT-la - sAoqv .2o :jueTvt.Tnba 000110S$S[I o:j enTSA :10,9.23U03 Blq-4 SUTST'g-I
91q-3 SUTSTS-1 90IT; SUTITnewo jo :tUSMLOTdme elq-4 aoj 9-4oviwo-a go wampu mg
pus inuis 9,q:j Xq POUTMID-313P A-Eqvuosivea ow '91n4vu Ts-OTIT 
swas-4 elq:t o:j S.Tddv '30U '[Tviqe SUOT:Ideoxe PTBII OIU -lq 
D'q:t ZO.; 9:1319-2WO-3 03 LTddv 3OU -ETN'qe &a:tova:juoo puv e:ljodea uoT:tvn-EWAS 'ST'Doodoad
- oz -



- 21 -
Disbursement
4.7       The  proposed  Bank  loan  would  be  disbursed  against  eligible
expenditures to cover:
(a) 85% of expenditure for civil works;
(b) 100% of expenditure for aerial photography;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of local expenditure (ex-factory
cost) and 65% of local expenditure for locally procured vehicles,
furniture, equipment, and materials;
(d)  65% for title development costs (excluding regular staff salaries) and
local training; and
(d) 100% of expenditure for survey engineering and valuation scholarships,
IS consultants, establishment costs of valuation degree courses, and
socio-economic and environmental studies.
4.8       In order to expedite project start-up, retroactive financing of the
aerial photography contract under category 2 and procured under Bank guidelines
after July 22, 1994, is included. Disbursements in respect of ICB expenditures
would amount to about US$20.5 million equivalent. Disbursements against civil
works contracts costing less than US$500,000 each, against vehicles, furniture,
equipment and materials contracts costing less than US$250,000 each, against
contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding US$100,000 each and
of individual consultants not exceeding US$50,000 each, and against title
development, adjudication and training costs would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOE), the related supporting documents for which
would be retained by the implementing agency for periodic review by the Bank.
The project would be physically completed by September 30, 1999, and loan closing
would be on September 30, 2000.   An estimated schedule of disbursements is
presented in Annex 10.
Cost Recoverv
4.9       While the costs of title issuance would be recovered directly from
beneficiaries by payment of a fee for the title deed, this fee would not be
sufficient to cover the full costs of the document. DOL would indirectly recover
more than the full cost of the title deed, through the various systems of land
and property taxes levied on the landowner. Delayed cost recovery has been very
effective under LTP I and II (para. 5.8), in terms of revenues collected from
transactions in the form of transfer fees, stamp duties, and taxes on capital
gains.  The rate of increase in revenue collections was between 14% and 278%
higher for LTP areas as compared with non-LTP areas, after netting out effects
due to the country's economic boom and the attendant speculation. Land titling
has emerged as one of the most cost effective means of increasing Government
revenues without raising the unit rates of land taxation and transfer.
Accounts and Audits
4.10      DOL would maintain separate project accounts covering all financial
transactions for project activities and would prepare annual statements of
receipts and expenditures based on the project accounts. DOL would also maintain
the accounting and internal control system used under the two previous projects
for loan disbursement against statement of expenditures. Auditors satisfactory
to the Bank would be employed to audit these accounts annually and certified
copies of the audited financial statements and the auditor's report including an
opinion covering withdrawals made against statements of expenditures would be
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of RTG fiscal year.



- 22 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
5.1       LTP I and LTP II have enabled DOL to use new technologies and
approaches to improve the quality and speed of its output (new standardized
control points, photomaps, computerized mapping, cadastral maps, land titles).
Also, the preparation of an upgraded property valuation roll in 1988 and 1992 has
contributed to significant increases in Government revenues.   Priority for
titling was given to rural areas where absolute poverty was relatively high and
the lack of secure land documentation was considered to be a serious impediment
to productivity improvement.  Since rural poverty incidence was worst in the
northeast and the upper north, LTP I and LTP II focused on those regions. The
much smaller urban program was concentrated in Bangkok and the municipalities of
the aforementioned rural areas.   The emphasis of LTP III would be to: (i)
complete the coverage for the whole northeast and northern regions (specifically
the remaining 10 relatively poorer provinces in the northeast and 7 in the north)
and start coverage of the central region; (ii) implement human resource and
information systems programs to promote long term sustainability of land
administration; and (iii) develop CVA to carry out the functions of a national
valuation agency.
5.2       These emphases would support RTG's key development objectives and
trends in the economy over the next decade. Government has set as a major goal
for the 1990s the reduction of inter-regional income disparities, with particular
attention  to  the  historically  poorer  northeast  region.    Expanding  and
commercializing rainfed agriculture in this area will be heavily dependent on
success in removing the constraints posed by insecurity of land tenure. Securing
tenure in the advanced areas would have both employment and income distribution
benefits, as well as substantial budgetary benefits for both central and local
government.  As Thailand's economic boom fuels speculative pressure on land
prices (especially in Bangkok), it becomes increasingly important to upgrade the
quality of title issuance and to provide more objective land valuation and a
standardized land information system.   A significant need for a valuation
function in Thailand to be of international standard now exists in both the
public and private sectors. Proper valuation standards are essential if the Thai
land economy is to be properly managed so as to attract international investment
and provide the Thai economy with the revenue it needs from property taxation on
a fair and equitable basis.
Benefits
5.3       The project would consider some 3.4 million eligible land parcels for
titling. Project benefits are derived from these title deeds and other "outputs"
of the project (e.g. aerial photomaps, cadastral maps), the improved systems of
land valuation and land information which can be developed from them, and more
accessible, efficient and timely land administration service to the public.
While they do not lend themselves to conventional economic rate of return



- 23 -
analysis,  some of these benefits have been quantified.   The main thesis
underlying this analysis is that agriculture in Thailand has to move from the
extensive to intensive mode, and that increased security of tenure is a crucial
pre-condition for effecting the needed land improvements. LTP I and LTP II were
justified primarily on the basis of the benefits expected to arise from issuance
of title deeds, i.e. the security of tenure which would lead to: (i) increased
access to institutional credit; (ii) increased input use and on-farm investments;
(iii) higher productivity and beneficiary incomes; (iv) more efficient land
markets; and (v) reduction of land conflicts.
5.4       The socio-economic baseline surveys of LTP I undertaken in 1984-1986
and the follow-up surveys undertaken in 1990-1991 1(3-4 years after the issuance
of land titles) and the baseline and follow-up case studies undertaken in 1986
and in 1989 respectively, mainly in the northeastern and northern provinces, have
shown the following positive impacts, after netting out the differences in land
quality, agro-climatic and government infrastructure support:
(a) the greatest motivation for obtaining land title is the increased
demand for and access to institutional credit. Farmers having titles
increased their borrowing from institutional credit sources by about
27% and decreased their borrowing from informal credit sources in
inverse ratio.   The case study also indicated that the number of
medium and long-term loans in the project areas increased by 20%.
Finally, borrowers providing land collaterals received 75Z-123% more
institutional credit than those without;
(b) farmers with land titles (as compared to those without such documents)
used inputs (including labor, draft power and other farm inputs) more
intensively by 10Z-30%; the agricultural output value was higher by
8%-27%, the rate of capital formation by 28Z-67%, and the rate of land
improvements by 37Z-100%;
(c) legal title is the most significant factor in explaining the
differences in land prices. Title-equivalent land was between 75%-
192% more valuable than undocumented land, and between 113Z-195Z more
valuable than state land occupied by squatters 2. Assuming that only
about one-third of the net increases in land values is attributable
to "true economic benefits of the project", the improvement is still
significant.   The reason for partially deflating the differential
between titled and untitled land values is that other distortions tend
to be reflected either in the over-valuation of titled land (e.g.
credit subsidy effects) and/or in the undervaluation of the non-
Center for Applied Economics Research,  Faculty of Economics,  Kasetsart
university, July 1993.
2 See: (i) Feder et al (1988), Land Policies and Farm Productivity in Thailand,
Johns Hopkins press; and (ii) Chalamwong and Feder (1988), The Economic
Implication of Land Documents in Rural Thailand, Agriculture Administration
and Extension, pages 123-133.



- 24 -
documented land below the value that can be attributable to true
enterprise risk (e.g. farmers' fear of eviction); and
(d) the direct costs of providing full title were equivalent to only 0.6%-
5.6% of the market value of untitled land. The resulting benefit/cost
ratios of providing titles to occupants of undocumented state land
ranged from 4.5 to 12. Even if such ratios were discounted by half,
benefits still substantially outweigh costs.
5.5       The main social benefits relate to prevention and reduction of land
disputes. The results of the socio-economic surveys indicated that land disputes
were reduced from 4% to nil in the north and from 5% to 1.7% in the northeast
(Table 5.10 of the socio-economic baseline and follow-up surveys in project
areas). A negative aspect, however, was that inheritance disputes tend to be
highlighted in the titling process, although this may not necessarily mean that
the number of disputes was actually increased. A positive impact of titling,
which cannot easily be quantified, relates to those benefits associated with the
dignity, security and sense of well being derived from land ownership, especially
for occupants of formerly undocumented land.
5.6       Since the rate of issuance of land titles achieved under LTP I
(335,000 per year) and LTP II (525,000) would be significantly increased under
the proposed project (680,000 per year), it is reasonable to assume that the
incidence of the associated benefits discussed above would increase similarly.
Fiscal Impact
5.7       Revenues.  Although the unit cost of title preparation and issuance
has been rising3, in 1993 terms from Baht 582 under LTP I, to Baht 629 under LTP
II, and an estimated Baht 856 under LTP III, the expected benefits to RTG would
be substantial. Under LTP I and II, the fiscal impact turned out to be larger
than expected and is expected to be of at least similar magnitude under LTP III.
Land titling has emerged as one of the most cost effective means of increasing
Government revenues without raising the unit rates of land taxation and transfer.
DOL collects revenues from transactions in the form of transfer fees, a stamp
duty, and an income tax (a form of capital gains tax).   The increase in
collection is summarized in Table 5.1.
5.8       The rate of increase in revenue collections was between 142 and 278%
higher for LTP areas as compared with non-LTP areas, after netting out effects
due to the country's economic boom and the attendant speculation. Of DOL's total
revenues, collections from transfer fees account for about 55%, followed by
income tax (40%) and stamp duty (5%). About a half of the total revenues come
from collections in Bangkok and its metropolitan areas. During 1986-1990, the
number of transactions increased by 20Z-90Z, from 6.3 million in 1986 to 7.5
million in 1987. It peaked at 11.8 million in 1990. During the same period,
3 This is due to : (i) substantial increases in salaries (30%), per diem. and
allowances (100%) in 1993 to align them more closely to conditions in the
private sector; and (ii) NS3K conversion has proved to be more complex and
requiring more field work than anticipated.



- 25 -
total DOL revenue collections increased by 44% in 1987 and 480% in 1990, in 1986
constant terms over 1986. These can be mainly attributed to: (a) an increased
issuance of title deeds resulting from improved technical support, expansion in
branch offices and improved organization and management; and (b) adoption in 1988
of a more up-to-date and more realistic (higher) property values for taxation
purposes.
Table 5.1. Tax Receipts of Depambnt d Lans ml
No, df         AmTourioleedkdofClsos %
Year: t....ion -___      (BaAi iM7( 1. 
___    Tranfer  Inkm"   ftamp.  Total  TiaXufe  kloome  Stm    Tt
F..    Ta  Duty        Fee~~~4!0    Tax  ut
-  -'1984"  5976 . ... : 2,117  1,461  199  3,777  19   0       S   i   e
1985    6,521   2,144    1,583    226   3,953   108    117    109  . .112
1986    6,290   2,009    1,391    213   3,613   100    100    100   100
1987    7,479   2,870    2,151    305   5,326   137    153    146   144
1988    8,926   5,775    5,115    620  11,510   273    342    188.  30
1989    8,295   7,585    6,117    870  14,572   339    389    401   362
1990   11,751   13,136 : 9,997   1,499  24,632  558.   614      0:1 i-2
19g1    8,840  11,37    6,921 1,183  19,421     453  .9        40    43i
1992    7,146  11,260 -    6,515  1,456  19,231  425 .:   355.. ..... .....
1993    8,030   11,5X    7,950   1,590  21,040  413    412       8 :'4 _A:
a/  Actual 1984-1992 and provisional 1993.
5.9       The slower economic growth during 1991-1992, resulting from local
political instability and a change of Government, significantly reduced the
number of transactions in 1991 (25%) and 1992 (42%) over the 1990 level, and
affected total revenue collections (25% and 30%, respectively).  The smaller
impact on revenue collection in 1992 was due partly to the increased base for
property tax valuation, mainly in Bangkok metropolitan area and municipalities
throughout the country. This compensated for the impact of a reduced number of
transactions. Although the revised property valuation roll more realistically
reflects market value, it is still significantly low. More importantly, in terms
of property tax revenue, there are still properties not on the valuation roll and
many sanitary districts in the country which have not adopted the updated version
of the property roll. Addressing these two areas would significantly increase
Government revenues from property taxation. For example, a small increase in the
property valuation bases by 10% would increase alone the transfer fee collection
by Baht 1.4 billion annually, which are more than sufficient to cover the annual
costs of the project estimated at Baht 1 billion.
5.10        Improved land titling and land valuation capabilities can have
important benefits for local development, especially when coupled with the



- 26 -
implementation of the property tax system creating a more realistic value base
upon which to levy the tax and a variable tax rate to be determined by Government
depending on budgetary demands.   Revenue collection by DOLA through local
municipalities, sanitary districts and provincial administrative offices has,
however, been less impressive. This is because the land related authority taxes
(e.g. the land and building tax and the local development tax) are not specific
to title holdings and, more importantly, their rates and bases for assessment
have not changed for at least 12 years. Although they are supposed to be based
on market appraisal, in practice the land and building tax (more important for
municipalities and sanitary districts) is based on rental value for 1978 instead
of annually and the local development tax is based on 1978 land values instead
of the professed medium price of land every four years. A lack of systematic
property valuation bases in Thailand and limited funding for the expansion of
CVA's activities were additional constraints.   Under its Sixth and Seventh
Development Plans, RTG has emphasized greater local government autonomy, along
with decreased central budget transfers in favor of greater reliance on local
taxation.
5.11      By strengthening the valuation function in Thailand, particularly in
the areas of land expropriation and mass appraisal for property taxation
purposes, the project would help ensure that:
(a) property taxes based on fair market value would provide an equitable
distribution of the property tax burden by progressively taxing the
more wealthy;
(b) the property taxation policy of Government can be carried out
effectively and efficiently;
(c) fair payment of compensation for land acquired for public purposes
would not only benefit dispossessed land owners but would also provide
proper accountability for community projects; and
(d) the data base created to support the national valuation function.
would provide the basic data and machinery needed for poverty
programs.
5.12      Savings.  Substantial Government savings have been achieved under the
previous titling projects by expanding the uses for the new technology introduced
to produce more efficiently the technical outputs, such as survey controls,
aerial photography/maps and cadastral maps. Another source of potential savings
would result from the reduction and elimination of duplication among Government
agencies.  The pilot LIS developed for Bangkok under the ongoing LTP II, for
instance, has significantly reduced duplication in the production of base and
land use maps, road building and waterway information, between the agencies
cooperating in that project. Reduction of duplication through the use of DOL
aerial photographs for the production of base maps have also saved the City
Planning Division of BMA annual costs. However, a generalized LIS for DOL has
yet to be established but is one of the main objectives of the project.



- 27 -
Beneficiaries
5.13      An estimated 1,100,000 4 rural landholding families from amongst the
poorest sections of the population would directly benefit from the project. The
Thailand Poverty Assessment (June 1993) reports that 95Z of employed household
heads who are below the poverty line are employed in agriculture, either self
employed or as agricultural workers. About 28% of farming families nationally
fall below the poverty  line  (Baht  440 or US$173  per  capita);    regional
differences are widening, with poverty incidence in the northeast region
remaining unchanged and the worst at 33%, as compared to the south at 21% and the
north at 19%. As 10 of the total 19 project provinces are from the northeast,
this ensures that the poorest provinces in the country receive priority attention
under the project. In the more advanced areas covered by the project (i.e. urban
areas in the lower north and central regions), improved security of tenure and
stability would support the growing industrial and service industries, thereby
providing some employment of migrants from the poverty areas, especially the
northeast.
5.14      For all project beneficiaries, the issuance of the title deed will
increase the value of their land and open the door to medium and long term
credit. Security of tenure fosters land markets and promotes investments in the
land and its sustainable use, increasing productivity, raising incomes, and
providing employment opportunities. The project would also help to strengthen
the fiscal system through more timely and equitable land property taxation which
would result in increased Government revenues.
Women
5.15      Approximately 12% of all rural landholders are women and they would
secure title through the normal project process. Since the proportion of female
landholders in urban areas is over 20%, even more women would benefit from urban-
oriented components.   Furthermore, bringing more land titles into the land
register and the Civil and Commercial Code would ensure that women are better
protected from husbands selling land without their consent.   It is now not
possible to register the transaction in DOL Land Offices without the other
spouse's approval by signing the transaction document. Because women already
play an active role in land transactions when they do have title, no special
effort would be needed to ensure their participation in the project. Women would
also benefit as staff members of DOL. In 1991, about 40% of all DOL staff were
women and 15% of the middle-level management positions were held by women. Women
also make up a significant percentage of the field adjudication teams.
5.16      Employment.   Net additional permanent positions under the project
would include mainly some 500 positions for CVA, which would be filled by
redeployment of staff from within DOL or by new recruitment. A few additional
positions would be created for the IS Center. The 1133 positions for the new
branch land offices would be filled by 437 staff from closing district land
4 Average of 3 parcels per landholder family, based on the Socio-economic
Evaluation of the Land Titling I Project.



- 28 -
offices and 696 staff to be redeployed from within DOL. Some 690 incremental
staff for field adjudication teams will be employed on a temporary basis until
completion of the titling program, when the teams will be disbanded. At the
local level, the project should help create new employment and help family labor
to become more productive through increased access to investment and credit.
Effect on the Environment
5.17      An environmental analysis of the project is presented in Annex 8. The
project's impact on the physical environment is expected to be positive, while
the  PCR of LTP  I   did not  identify  any negative  environmental  impact.
Sustainable natural resource management is a high priority of Government, and the
strategy for sustainable land resource management is based on ensuring land
ownership security to legitimate owners of private land and protect customary
rights of land occupiers in land which is now classified as public land. The
strengthened land administration standards and procedures established to give
sustainability to the project would of necessity create information systems which
would have additional benefits to Government in the areas of land use management
and environmental planning.
5.18      Secure tenure in the form of a freely transferable title deed provides
the incentive to capitalize on the asset through land improvements and to protect
it from degradation through unsustainable land use practices. The efficient land
markets promoted by the project will ensure ready recovery of the asset value at
market rates.   In addition, the project will support,  in over 25% of the
country's provinces, the ground survey and demarcation of forest areas, which
would be the first and most comprehensive action to be taken by RTG in forest
boundary demarcation. The marking of clear boundaries agreed by all concerned
RTG agencies will provide a sound basis for the implementation of enforcement
measures against forest encroachment.
Risks
5.19      There are no project risks, as the project would be the third phase
of a successful national titling program.   Government and its agencies are
strongly committed to support of this program, and the necessary experience has
been gained under the first two phases to address adequately any unforeseeable
implementation problems.



-29-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)    By January 1, 1995,  DOL, RFD, and LDD would appoint joint survey
teams to carry out these activities (para. 2.12);
(b)    DOL would, by January 1, 1995, formulate and implement a policy to
address during the field adjudication process issues of deceased and
absentee landowners and parcels held in mortgage (para. 2.12);
(c)    DOL would, by January 1, 1995, formulate and implement a policy for
improving provincial and branch land office records management (para.
2.14);
(d)    DOL would, by October 1, 1995, submit to the Bank an appropriate human
resource management and development program (para. 2.15); and
(e)    DOL would, by October 1, 1997, prepare an implementation plan for the
continued development of CVA from project completion to full
development (para. 2.18).
6.2       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$118.1 million, repayable in 17 years, including a grace period
of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would
be the Kingdom of Thailand.



l:



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Land Use in 1986 a/
Agricultural Land
m rai                X
Paddy                                         84.3               26.3
Upland Crops                                  51.4               16.0
Para Rubber                                   10.5                3.3
Perennial Crops and Others                     5.8                1.8
Subtotal                         152.0              47.4
Other
National Forest Reserve                       136.2              42.5
Urban                                           2.7               0.9
Water Bodies                                    3.1               1.0
Vacant (swamp, beach, pasture, etc.)          26.6                8.3
Subtotal                         168.6              52.6
Total                            320.6             100.0
a/ Source: Thailand Development Research Institute, Thailand Natural
Resources Profile (1986).



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Land Ownership In Thailand a/
Number of            Area
Parcels             (million
('000)               rai)
A.     State Land
Forest b/ I                                                     146.9
Land under NSL c/                            76                  16.1
Government Real Estate                        -                   6.9
Vacant Land                                   -                  12.6
Subtotal                              76                  182.5
B.     Private Land
Title Deeds (NS4)                           9,590                34.8
Certificates of Utilization (NS3K)          7,803                49.5
Certificates of Utilization (NS3)           2,104                19.0
Preemptive Certificates (NS2)                 388                 4.1
Undocumented d/                             2,948                30.7
Subtotal                            22.733                138.1
Total                               22,809                320.6
a/ DOL statistics (1993).
b/ Including prereserved forest.
c/ Nor Sor Lor (title deed for government-owned land, registered with DOL).
d/ Estimated by subtraction.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Main Provinces in Proiect Area
Northern Region       Central Region        N o r t h e a a t     Southern Region
Reiion
Kamphaeng Phet        Nakhon Sawan          [hon Kaen             Prachuab
Tak                   Suphan Buri           Chaiyaphum             Khirikhan*
Phetchabun            Lop Buri *            Sakhon Nakhon         Ranong *
Phichit               Sing Buri *           Nong Khai             Chumporn *
Phitsanulok           Angthong *            Udon Thani            Phuket *
Sukhothai             Saraburi *            Roi Et                Phang Nga *
Uttradit              Nakhon Nayok *        Mahasarakham          Krabi *
Samut Sakhon *        [alasin               Surat Thani *
Nakhon Pathom *       Nakhon Phanom         Nakon
Kanchanaburi *        Loei                   Srithamarat*
Ratchaburi *                                Trang *
Petchaburi *                                Phattalung *
Satun *
Songkhla *
Phattani *
Yala *
Narathiwat *
*     Mainly aerial photography



- 34 -                            Table 4
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Standard Staffing for Field Adludication Parties 1/
Position                                  No. of Staff          PC Level
A.    Office Staff
Superintendent                                1                6
Asat. Superintendent for Investigation        2                5
Asst. Superintendent for Survey               2                5
Land Right Investigation
Land Staff                                    5              1-3
SurvevinR
Surveyor                                      1              2 - 4
Surveyor                                      4              1 - 3
B.    Field Staff
Land Right Investigation
Land Staff                                    10             1 - 3
Boundary Adiudication
Surveyor                                      2              2- 4
Surveyor                                      8              1 - 3
Detailed Mappina
Surveyor                                      2              2 - 4
Surveyor                                      8              1 - 3
Permanent Employee (Driver)                   1
Total staff in an Adiudication Party          46
Total staff in 15 Adiudication Parties       690
[I    There  are  10  adjudication  teams  in  an  adjudication  party.    Each
adjudication team consists of one land right investigator, 1 boundary
adjudicator (surveyor) and 1 detailed mapping officer (surveyor).



ANNEX I
- 35 -                            Table 5
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Optimum Staffing for a Branch Land Office
Position                                 No. of Staff       PC Level
A.    Officials a/
Head, Branch Land Office                    1               7
Land Administration Officer                 1               6
Surveyor                                    1               5
Land Administration Officer                 1               5
Land Technician                             2             3 - 5
Surveyor                                    1               5
Surveyor                                    2            2 - 4
Land Staff                                  1               4
Land Staff                                  3             1 - 3
Surveyor                                    1             1 - 3
Finance and Accounting Officer              1             1 - 3
B.    Permanent EmDlovees b/
Janitor                                     1               -
Assistant Draftsman                         1               -
Driver                                      1
a/    Eligible for salary increases and all benefits.
h/    Not eligible for salary increases or benefits.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Staffin  for New Branch Land Offices
Government Officials         Non-Establishment Positions
Thai      New      Total    Transferred      From      Transferred      From        Total
Fiscal   Branch    No. of   from Amphur        DOL      from Amphur       DOL        From
Year     Land      Staff    Land Office                Land Office                   DOL
Offices
1995      16        288          90          150            16           32         182
1996       4         71          24           35            4            8           43
1997      17       306          117          138            17           34         172
1998      20        360         129          171            16           44         215
1999       6        108          20           70            4            14          84
Total      63      1133          380          564           57          132          696



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Costs of Production of Title Deed Under Land Titling Proiects
(Baht '000)
LTP I a/  LTP II b/    LTP III b/
Base Cadastral Mapping                     387,551    405,869       561,131
Ground Survey                              347,768    824,755      2,235,904
NS3K Conversion                             73,389     51,764        28,399
subtotal               808,708   1,282,388    2,825,434
Depreciation of Capital Cost Items
Major Control                    4,933        -            -
Minor Control                    4,680        -            -
Aero Triangulation              13,153       -             -
Photomap Production              1,938       -             -
Printing                         1,298       -             -
NS4 Adjudication                   962        -            -
subtotal                26,964      38,470       84,760
Total                  835,672    1.320.858   2.910.194
Number of Title Deeds:                     2,010,764 2,099,219   3,400,800
Cost Per Title Deed (B) current prices:    416            629          856
1993 constant prices:    582           639          856
a/ Actual
b/ Actual 1991-1993 and estimate 1994.



- 38 -                               ANNEX I
Table 8
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Socio-Economic and Environmental Impact Studies
Terms of Reference
Backaround
1.        Under LTP I, baseline surveys were carried out between 1985 and 1989
in Chiang Mai and Lampang Provinces in the north and Nakhon Ratchasima, Buriram
and Roi-Et in the northeast to assess the socio-economic impact of the project.
Follow-up surveys were carried out in 1991-92, and the analysis of data and final
report were completed in July 1993. These studies also included a number of case
studies to highlight certain socio-institutional aspects of LTP I in specific
locations. More details on the results of the studies are presented in the main
text of this report in para. 5.4. Continued evaluation of the socio-sconomic
impact is envisaged in 1993-94 under the follow-on LTP II Project in order to a
longer term perspective of the socio-economic impact.
Obiectives and Scope of Study
2.        The study, which has two components, aims at evaluating the impact on:
(a) Land value
(b) Access to credit and input use
(c) Improvement in productivity
(d) Incomes and expenditures
(e) Land use practices and the environment
3.        Additional Surveys in the North and Northeast.   Because of the
relaitvely short time since titles were issued in the north and northeast,
further surveys will be carried out in these areas to enable the long term
effects to be better assessed. Follow-up surveys will be conducted in the aame
households as those used in the baseline and 1991 follow-up surveys.   The
questionnaire and other procedures will be amended to ensure that the results of
this additional study will address the long term environmental issues
effectively.
4.        Impact on Commercially-Oriented Areas of Eastern Seaboard. As LTP II
will include the more commercially advanced areas, baseline surveys will be
started using these selected provinces of the eastern seaboard (Rayong or
Chanthaburi) to lay the foundations for assessing the impact in the urban areas
(tourism, manufacturing, agro-processing) as well as the rural areas (especially
on tree crops like rubber and fruit trees which are commonly found in the eastern
provinces). For the urban areas, assessments would be made of the impact of
title issuance:  (a) land/property values; (b)   location  of   land/buildings
investments; (c) investor incomes and spillover effects on employment and
poverty. For the rural areas, evaluation similar to that of LTP I will be
carried out. Higher capital investments, associated with higher value tree crop



- 39 -
production, which could include sophisticated investments like sprinkler
irrigation (for durians) are more likely than in LTP I areas.
5.        Baseline surveys would be started in 1993/94 and follow-up surveys
carried out in 1997. In addition to the parameters under para. 2 above studied
under LTP I, the survey will evaluate the impact on:
(a) borrowing for long term investment
(b) output to local, Bangkok and overseas markets
(c) investment in real assets, particularly for productive purposes,
and plans for further investment
(d) employment created and origin of labor force to detremine whether the
project is reaching poverty groups
(e) revenues for RTG agencies and local authorities
(f) land and property values
6.        Data will also be collected on the environment, regarding:
(a) near forested areas, encroachment and deforestation
(b) near upland areas, soil erosion, crop diversification, and vegetative
cover
(c) adjacent to streams and rivers, level of siltation and destructionof
water courses
(d) in coastal areas, encroachment into mangrove forests and beaches, end
impact of aquaculture ponds and shrimp raising
(e) on-farm use of organic and inorganic soil additives
(f) conversion of lands for livestock ranches and pastures
(g) number of freshwater fish ponds and their hydrological impact
(h) occurrence of soil salinity
Study Teams
7.        Six field teams will be involved:
North and Northeast : 2 teams for rural areas
Eastern Seaboard:       2 teams      "       1
2 teams for urban areas
Study Team Leader:      9 person months
Assist. Study Leader:  9
Environmentalist:       3
Field Supervisor:       9
30
Average unit cost: Baht 16,000 per person month
Est. Staff Costs (including field staff) : Baht 500,000
Estimated Operating Costs                  : Baht 800.000
1.300.000
Total Budget : Lump Sum of Baht 13 million (about US$0.5 million)



THAILAND
LAND TITLING liI PROJECT
BAHT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
BASE COSTS                                TOTAL
1995       1996       1997        1998       1999   BAHT        USS
A. Land Titling
1. Aerial Photo & Production  164599.40   115294.00    9891.20    6546.80    4552.90   300884.30    11799.38
2. MaJor, Minor & GPS Control  49770.10    57771.20    49544.70    48928.70   48928.70   254943.40    9997.78
3. Printing                    16626.00     849.00     849.00      849.00     849.00   20022.00      785.18
4. Computing & Map Transformn   4020.90    12390.90    3999.40    3996.40    3990.90   28398.50     1113.67
5. Adjudication & NS3K Conv.  343392.80  486252.20   468896.70   470081.20  467281.20  2235904.10   87682.51
6. Urban Mapping               40718.00    40718.00    40583.00    35140.50   35140.50   192300.00    7541.18
Sub-total                     619127.20   713275.30   573764.00   565542.60  560743.20  3032452.30   118919.70
B. Improving DOL Services
1. Land Registration            4251.20    6452.20    2856.20     1401.20    2851.20    17812.00     698.51
2. Changwat & Amphur Land Off.   98680.10   22989.40    99870.60   137017.90   57384.80   415942.80    16311.48
3. Map Control                   630.00     720.00      810.00     900.00     900.00    3960.00      155.29
Sub-total                     103561.30    30161.60   103536.80   139319.10   61136.00   437714.80    17165.29
C. Strengthening DOL
1. Supply Division             14514.40    7995.40    8511.60    8894.10    9381.60   49297.10      1933.22
2. Personnel Division            661.70     181.70      181.70     181.70     181.70     1388.50      54.45
3. Policy & Planning            1059.00     851.00      624.00     526.00     528.00     3588.00     140.71
4. Finance                      1027.20     817.60      934.60     866.60     858.00     4504.00     176.63
5. Training Division           35990.50    14828.30    9660.90    11560.40   10935.90    82976.00    3253.96
6. Public Relation              2864.50    1177.50     1297.50    1702.50    1907.50     8949.50     350.96
7. Land Titling Project Off.    6214.90    3452.10     3569.00    3452.10    3452.10    20140.20     789.81
8. Information System          38793.90   44662.90    50782.20    51422.60   26871.00   212532.60    8334.61
9. Scholarships                 9458.20    13633.20    14083.20    13033.20   13483.20   63691.00    2497.69
Sub-total                     110584.30    87599.70    89644.70    91639.20   67599.00   447066.90    17532.04
D. Development of CVA            56949.10    79151.30    66456.00    78903.00   102873.30   384332.70    15071.87
E. Technical Assistance          35750.30   49614.70    34091.20    21578.60    18340.40   159375.20    6250.01
F. Studies                           0.00    3240.00     3240.00    3240.00    3240.00    12960.00     508.24
TOTAL BASEUNE COSTS           925972.20   963042.60   870732.70   900222.50   813931.90  4473901.90   175447.13
Physical Contingencies       30297.90    15577.30    9979.80    13200.40    4869.50    73924.90    2899.02
Price Contingences           59725.50   104334.60   141010.20   198490.60  224247.90   727808.80   28541.52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          1015995.60  1082954.50  1021722.70  1111913.50  1043049.30  5275635.60   206887.67
Taxes                        64144.30   41161.70    44059.40    51235.80   38468.70   239069.90   9375.29
Foreign Exchange            364907.00   305582.90   189415.70  182049.60    153775.20  1195730.40   46891.39
Values Scaled by 1000.0



THAILAND
LAND TITLING IlIl PROJECT
BAHT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
BASE COSTS                           FOREIGN EXCHANGE
1995      1996       1997      1998      1999  TOTAL        %    AMOUNT
1.   CAPITAL COSTS
A. Buildings                 107372.20   13347.00   73875.00  101628.00   30787.00  327009.20    10.00   32700.92
B. Equipment                 143127.50   63820.60   40167.60   46607.90   30434.00  324157.60    85.00  275533.96
C. Vehicles                   30760.00    9686.00    5849.00    6666.00    2121.00   55082.00    65.00   35803.30
D. Fumiture                   10327.80    4351.90    5829.10    7479.00    3260.60   31248.40  5.00    1562.42
E. Aerial Photography        103499.40  103497.30      0.00      0.00       0.00  206996.70    70.00  144897.69
F. IS Consultant Services     11651.80   21261.00   21261.00    8560.40   6506.60   69240.80    90.00   62316.72
G. Technical Assistance       31692.70   40207.10   30273.60   18921.00   16082.80  137177.20    90.00  123459.48
H. Survey Eng. Scholarship     4300.00    4975.00    5425.00    5875.00    6325.00   26900.00  0.00       0.00
I. Valuation Scholarship          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00
J. Valuation Degree Establ.    2000.00    7000.00    7000.00    7000.00    7000.00   30000.00    20.00    6000.00
K. Local Training              9786.80   12805.60    7793.30    9692.80    9068.30   49140.80    20.00    9829.36
L. Overseas Training           1800.00    7150.00    1560.00    400.00      0.00   10910.00    82.60    9011.66
M Studies                         0.00    3240.00    3240.00    3240.00    3240.00   12960.00  0.00       0.00
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS        456318.20  291341.50  202273.60  216070.10  114825.30 1280828.70    54.70  701115.51
II. OPERATING COSTS
N. Incremental Salaries      113926.80  200720.80  215256.00  230417.70  244803.90 1005125.20  0.00       0.00
0. Per Diem                  105403.60  144632.70  146225.00  147020.60  148769.20  692051.10  0.00       0.00
P. Accommodation              75056.60   98312.60   99127.70   98336.60   99257.60  470091.10    25.00  117522.78
Q. Travel Allowance            5714.40    8036.40    8036.40    8036.40    8036.40   37860.00    60.00   22716.00
R. Transportation             26396.10   26370.90   28224.50   30271.70   32504.70  143767.90    75.00  107825.93
S. Vehicle 0 & M               1320.00    1938.00    1938.00    1938.00    1938.00    9072.00    50.00    4536.00
T. Equipment 0 & M            12400.20   13400.20   13198.20   13211.20   14522.20   66732.00    80.00   53385.60
U. Survey & Mapping Material  67039.50   96502.90   95873.20   92562.50   91142.00  443120.10   8.10   35892.73
V. Other Operating Costs      60139.40   79529.20   58322.70   60100.20   55875.20  313966.70    10.00   31396.67
W Administrative Support-TA    2257.60    2257.60    2257.60-   2257.60    2257.60   11288.00   0.00      0.00
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS   469654.20  671701.30  668459.30  684152.50  699106.80 3193074.10    11.70  373589.67
TOTAL BASEUNE COSTS    925972.40  963042.80  870732.90  900222.60  813932.10 4473902.80    24.00 1073736.67
Physical Contingencies    30297.90   15577.30    9979.80   13200.40    4869.50   73924.90    45.20   33414.05
Price Contingencies       59725.50  104334.60  141010.20  198490.60  224247.90  727808.80    12.10   88064.86
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    1015995.80 1082954.70 1021722.90 1111913.60 1043049.50 5275636.50          1195215.59
Taxes                     64144.30   41161.70   44059.40   51235.80   38468.70  239069.90   0.00      0.00
Foreign Exchange         364907.00  305582.90  189415.70  182049.60  153775.20 1195730.40   100.00 1195215.59
Values Scaled by 1000.0



THALAN
LAND TITLNG IN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
LIS$
Local
IBRD           AIDAB          Government        TOTAL        Foreign   (Exdi.    Duties
Amount   %    Amount    %       Amount    %      Amount    %    Exchange  Taxes)   & Tax.
A. Buildings              14030.40  85.00     0.00    0.00  2476.00  15.00  16506.40   7.98   1562.80  13292.90   1650.60
B. Equipment               9473.70  65.00     0.00    0.00  5101.20  35.00  14574.90   7.04  12368.50   475.10   1733.40
C. Vehicdes                1590.30  65.00     0.00    0.00   858.30  35.00  2448.60   1.18   1590.30     0.00   856.30
D. Fumiture                 974.80  65.00     0.00    0.00   524.90  35.00   1499.70   0.72    71.00   1323.80    105.00
E. Aerial Photography      9613.50 100.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  9613.50   4.65  6658.30  2955.10       0.00
F. Local Training             0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00  2252.50  100.00  2252.50   1.09   428.40   1711.50    112.60
G. Survey-Eng, Val Degree  2149.00  96.31     0.00    0.00    82.40   3.69  2231.40   1.08   235.30  1913.70    82.40
H. Overseas Training          0.00   0.00   427.80  100.00     0.00   0.00   427.80   0.21    353.30    74.50     0.00
1. IS Consulting Services  2715.30 100.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  2715.30   1.31  2443.80   271.50       0.00
J. Technical Assistance       0.00   0.00  5379.50  100.00     0.00   0.00  5379.50   2.60  4841.50   538.00      0.00
K. Studies                  508.20 100.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   508.20   0.25       0.00   508.20     0.00
L. Incremental Staff Salary    24453.20  52.00  0.00    0.00  2257220  48.00  47025.40  22.73   0.50  47024.80    0.10
M Per Diem                17071.00  52.00     0.00    0.00  15757.90  48.00  32828.90   15.87   0.00  32828.90    0.00
N. Accommodation          11335.00  52.00     0.00    0.00  10463.10  48.00  21798.10  10.54  5151.40  14483.00   2163.70
0. Travel Allowance         875.50  52.00     0.00    0.00   808.10  48.00   1683.60   0.81    996.30   266.40   420.90
P. Transportation          3311.70  52.00     0.00    0.00  3057.00  48.00  6388.70   3.08  4727.90   876.50    764.20
Q. Vehicle 0 & M            212.80  51.99     0.00    0.00   196.50  48.01    409.30   0.20   198.50   169.90    40.90
R. Equipment 0 & M         1533.80  52.00     0.00    0.00   1415.80  48.00  2949.60   1.43  2337.20   405.80   206.50
S. Survey & Mapping Matetial  10742.50  52.00  0.00    0.00  9916.10  48.00  20658.60   9.99   1560.00  18873.70   224.80
T. Other Operating Costs   7531.30  52.00     0.00    0.00  6951.90  48.00  14483.20   7.00   1368.40  12100.90   1013.80
U. Admin. Support-TA          0.00   0.00   526.50  100.00     0.00   0.00   526.50   0.25      0.00   526.50     0.00
TOTALDISBURSEMENT  118122.00  57.09  6333.80   3.06  82431.90  39.84 206887.70  100.00 46891.40 150620.70  9375.20
Values Scaled by 1000.0
17n
w 



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Improvement in DOL Delivery
Background
1.        DOL is responsible for all aspects of land registration, including
cadastral survey, mapping, land valuation and registration of private land rights
throughout Thailand. Operations are extensive. Services are provided to the
public in some 75 provincial and 600 land offices throughout the country staffed
by approximately 8,500 of the 13,000 total staff of DOL (para. 3.2). The number
of branch land offices will increase during the project.
2.        All provincial land offices have historically reported through the DOL
Office of the Secretary, which has been responsible for passing correspondence
to the appropriate head office division and communicating responses to individual
requests for information and instructions from head office divisions to the
provincial offices. Key divisions in head office that relate to the operations
of the land offices include Planning Division, Legal Affairs Division and Land
Records Division.  However, there is no one division in head office that is
responsible for the land registration function. In 1992 the Director General
assigned the overview of groups of land offices to himself and the Deputy
Directors General although the nature of this overview activity was not defined
in detail. Administratively, the land office has a number of monthly reporting
obligations, including MIS which is sent to the Planning Division.
3.        DOL has introduced a number of initiatives that will result in
improved service delivery.  In 1990 a pilot scheme to demonstrate the use of
computers in support of land office operations was commenced in the Phra Khanong
land office.  This pilot study was successfully completed in 1991/92.  An a
result computer systems have been installed in other Bangkok land offices, and
an IS Center is being established in headquarters to facilitate the introduction
of computers in DOL.   In 1992, with the assistance of AIDAB advisers, DOL
established a Land Administration Development Team, reporting to the Deputy
Director General responsible for LTP, and charged with the task of conducting
research into matters of land registration policy and the provision of advice to
the DG.
4.        To date DOL headquarters has placed an emphasis upon adherence to
regulations and the prevention of fraudulent practice while increased workload
and responsibility generated by titling processes and decentralisation policy
under LTP II remains the concern of individual land offices which are now faced
with the result of RTG plans to stem the growth of the civil service.  The
division of responsibility for land offices among each of the Deputy Directors
General represents an effort by DOL to address government policy to improve
service to the people. However, further steps will need to be taken during the
project if land office services are to continue at a satisfactory level.



- 44 -
Issues
5.        In  the  past  registration  procedures  have  been  controlled  by
inspectorial methods in an endeavor to maintain correctness and integrity of the
civil service.   This has led to an introversive  approach in land office
management. There are indications that the RTG policy is moving away from this
attitude and towards a policy of good service to the people through the agency
of the civil service. Present government policy also calls for a "transparent"
civil service which means that departments like DOL will be required to simplify
and publish their procedures so they are comprehensible to the population.
Emerging government initiatives also include reporting of interests, adoption of
an administrative appeals system and appointment of an office of ombudsman.
These represent a change in emphasis that will tend to discourage self serving
attitudes in the civil service and encourage, instead, attitudes of service. In
some cases the present regulations will operate to place undue emphasis upon
procedural matters and to restrict the exercise of reasonable discretion and
delegation of authority by land officials, which would result in a slow
responsiveness to RTG policy. In order to cope with additional responsibilities
and to make timely response to RTG policy, there will be a need to review
regulations and procedures in the land office during the project.
6.        There will also be a need to conduct a planned system of land records
management.   Increase in land office files under LTP I and II gave rise to
storage expansion and manpower difficulties within provincial and branch land
offices. These offices will be affected by the outcome of RTG plans to stem the
growth of the civil service to the extent that, ultimately, it will be
impracticable for DOL to continue its present policy concerning retention of
paper material.   DOL will benefit by adopting a carefully planned records
management program aimed at reduction of the number and type of land registration
forms to be generated, reduction of paper size to universal A4 size, eradication
of duplication of record data and culling and destruction of spent file material
as outlined in para. 2.13.
7.        In the past DOL records have been kept in a manner convenient to
departmental needs. Little attention has been required concerning the need for
land related information by outsiders, including other government departments and
agencies and the public and there has been no requirement to consider the
question of cost recovery by DOL for the access to such information. There will
be increasing need for data exchange, data sharing and data integration between
the various parts of DOL and also between various RTG agencies during the
project.
8.        During the project DOL will need to  consider the cost effectiveness
of its computer programs and as a result DOL will need to review the land law and
law of evidence if the considerable advantages of an automated registration
system are to be fully realised (para. 2.14).
9.        At present computing programs in land offices cover in the main
administration functions such as calculation of fees, issuing accounts and
receipts and activity records. DOL will need to plan carefully for automation
of the land register and adopt a strategy for the implementation of this plan
during the project.



- 45 -
Internal Service Delivery
10.       In the past, DOL divisions have operated with a reasonable level of
autonomy and with little need for coordination. The commencement of LTP I and
II, and their emphasis on the accelerated issuance of title deeds, has underlined
the need for good planning and coordination between the various divisions that
support the processes involved in the titling program. Current RTG emphasis on
improved service delivery will increase the importance of internal coordination
and the adoption of practices that consider other divisions in the process as
internal "customers" deserving improved service.
External Service Delivery
11.       DOL future services need to be based upon customer need.  Issues like
the privatization of surveying that has recently been introduced will effect a
marked change in emphasis upon the product and process of DOL. Adoption of these
initiatives will influence customer demand for DOL service such as land record
search and warranty of information which were formerly of little significance.
12.       In the past whenever it has been possible for DOL to increase land
office staff to meet increased demand, there has been less need to adopt
indicators for planning purposes. DOL will need to develop productivity measures
based upon time spent per dealing in order to monitor productivity. The data
will need to be managed so as to achieve consistent statistical results across
individual land offices. Similarly, there will be a need to monitor service to
the public and to gauge how the service is actually perceived by the public.
Methodologies might be developed to enable assessment of change in performance
over time.   Surveys could result in major revision in DOL procedures and
operations in areas such as fee structure, notification precedures, public
information in registration and land adjudication matters, procedures used in
registration, layout of the land office and facilities to be provided in public
areas etc.
Initiatives
13.       During  the  project,  DOL will  need  to  implement  the  following
initiatives:
(a)    Conduct an ongoing research of customer requirements
(b)    Simplify land registration form design and registration procedures
within DOL
(c)    Commence a program to rationalize DOL regulations
(d)    Publish DOL forms and registration procedures
(e)    Introduce a program to encourage customer self-help in registration
form completion and registration procedure
(f)    Devise a legislative scheme to indemnify land officials from legal
suit
(g)    Devise  a legislative  scheme  to guarantee  DOL  land  registration
services in favor of contracting parties
(h)    Adopt a mission statement concerning the status of the land register
to permit a logically phased introduction of computer technique to the
land office registration function
(i)    Prepare a design for automation of the land office registration
function



- 4 6 -
(j)    Commence a legislative update program that will facilitate ultimate
register automation
14.       Each of the above initiatives shall require long term deliberation.
Some will benefit from acceptance testing pilot studies. Initiatives (a) to (a)
inclusive require an ongoing developmental approach over periods of time.
Implementation should follow an integrated approach. The initiatives should be
commenced in approximately the order in which they are set out above and the plan
should provide for completion of initiatives (b), (c), (h), (i) and (j) during
Dec. 1998, Dec. 1995, July 1996, Dec. 1997 and Dec. 1998 respectively. Research
for the initiatives should be conducted by special task teams staffed by persons
of appropriate background and appropriate levels. Planning for mobilization of
these teams and their co-ordination could be assisted by the Land Administration
Development Team. Team members will need to be released from normal DOL duties
to permit their participation and some members will need to work on a full-time
basis. DOL will need to provide an appropriate budget for staff (including
secretarial services),  equipment  (including P.C.)  and pilot studies.   The
activities in this component would be supported by a technical adviser for the
first four years of the project.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Human Resource Management and Development Programs
Background
1.        Strengthening of DOL to better cope with fundamental technological and
institutional changes and service delivery improvement has continuously been an
important aim of the overall land titling project. Underlying the success of LTP
I and II is the critical linkage with organizational and human resource aspects.
2.        Implementation  of  LTP  I  in  1985-90  focused  on  technological
development, especially in rural and urban mapping, land titling, land
administration and land valuation methodologies. The PCR noted that the project
successfully established a decentralized land administration capacity supported
by a cadastral framework and titling program. The education and training program
under the project produced trained personnel to sustain the wide range of
technical skills developed. LTP II focused more on organization and management
improvements, due to the more complex work systems, increased interdependence
among work units, and the relatively high increase in both operational and
support service programs in DOL.
3.        Under LTP I, staff increased by about 1760 positions, with 1438, 244
and 144 positions, respectively, in technical operations, land administration,
and general service support functions. Under LTP II (1991-94), the total staff
increase amounted to 1217 positions, with increases of 520, 638 and 60 positions
in the corresponding areas.   As a whole, LTP I and LTP II resulted in an
increased of 31% in DOL personnel.
4.        In addition to the  increase  in staff,  LTP  I and LTP  II also
contributed continuously to the development of staff skills in the various DOL
operations through both overseas and local training programs in cadastral
development, valuation, planning and implementation, personnel management,
computer and project management.  It became clear that the sustainability of
improvements in technology, operational productivity, and organizational
development was critically dependent upon improving the quality of DOL human
resources. There was also strong support to the regular training and development
activities of the Training Division.
Human Resource Issues
5.        The advances made by DOL in land administration and CVA development,
central service support, and land office service delivery are beginning to suffer
from inadequate human resource development support. Human resource deficiencies
are clearly reflected in both human resource management and development practices
in DOL.
6.        Efficient Use of Trained Personnel.  The training programs under LTP
I and II have produced personnel with scarce technical skills in areas like land



- 48 -
valuation and land information systems and in some specialized managerial
functions such as personnel management, training, and project implementation.
In many cases, DOL has made inadequate use of these trained staff at the end of
the training period.   Also the existing 52 career streams in DOL place more
restrictions on staff in the planning, development and advancement of their
careers.   As a result,  some specialist staff,  especially those trained in
technical and professional fields, seek other careers with more advancement and
promotion opportunities.
7.        Retention of Specialist Staff. DOL's institutional framework includes
the development of such new professional disciplines as survey engineers,
valuers, computer specialists, and land information specialists. To date, due
to poor career prospects and incentives, DOL has retained only a small number of
these specialists, the majority of whom have joined the private sector.
S.        Systematic  Training  and Development.    Coordination  between  the
Personnel and Training Divisions under the previous projects has been inadequate.
Institutional support to these Divisions in terms of trained staff and physical
resources has also been lacking.   Thus, the Training Division was unable to
perform its duties effectively. has faced serious problems and constraints in
performing HRD functions. A systematic human resource training and development
program which is based on the needs of DOL has not been defined.
9.        Management Development.    The  institutional  changes  in DOL  have
required managers who can effectively oversee these changes in such areas as
central  technical  support,   general  service  support,   and  land  office
administration.    However,  there  has  been  inadequate  attention  to  the
implementation of management development programs, especially for middle
management level staff.
10.       Development of the Training Division.   The Training Division was
initiated under LTP I and, in spite of its important role, has not reached full
effectiveness.   It has been constrained by a lack of support for a training
policy in DOL, and inadequate staff skills, budgetary and physical resources.
11.       Staff Redeplovment.  Under the present constraint of the RTG policy
to freeze manpower for the civil service, DOL must redeploy its staff in a more
effective way to satisfy its staffing needs for its new activities. So far, DOL
has implemented the redeployment of its human resources in a narrow and
unstructured way. In the long run, DOL needs to expand this redeployment program
onto a more comprehensive base, involving cross-career boundaries.
12.       Human Resource Management Policy.  Due to the large staff and complex
work systems, improved management of DOL's human resources is a fundamental part
of organizational strengthening. There are presently no clear policy directions
and guidelines to guide such functions and operations as personnel selection and
placement, reward, evaluation and development.
Human Resource Development Obiectives and Avyroach
13.       Obiectives and Approach.  To ensure that the institutional changes in
DOL are sustainable, DOL's human resource development program should focus on the
major areas of individual, career and organizational development. It should aim
at:



- 49 -
(a)    improving individual and corporate productivity and work standards;
(b)    improving and developing DOL staff quality, skills and competencies;
(c)    organizing pfanned efforts to promote more suitable career planning
and development in DOL; and
(d)    increasing morale and work motivation among DOL staff.
14.       It is necessary that DOL:
(a)    obtains the full support of DOL top management;
(b)    establishes a clear human resource development policy;
(c)    integrates human resource development programs within the long range
organizational plan;
(d)    encourages closer coordination and cooperation between related key
functions.
(e)    develops and maintains closer collaboration with CSC; and
(f)    uses external technical assistance in planning and implementing human
resource  development  programs,   including  auditing  of  program
effectiveness;
Development ProQrams
15.       Human Resource Policy and Strategic Plan.  DOL will prepare a human
resource development policy and strategic plan that reflects long range future
needs in human resource areas.   Key program activities may include: human
resource skills audit, needs assessment, training and development program design,
development and planning, and program evaluation.
16.       Career Planning. Development and Management.  Together with CSC and
with the support of the Human Resources External Adviser, DOL will appoint a
joint training and personnel task force to review the existing career structure
in DOL.   A job evaluation study and management survey will be conducted to
introduce a new career pattern and identify criteria for skill requirements in
different career ladders. The new career structure will be also be implemented
and evaluated by DOL.
17.       Training Program Development and Implementation.  DOL will also review
the structure of its training programs and make necessary changes to respond to
its needs for human resource development. The improved programs may cover such
areas as clerical development, technical and professional development, management
development, and organization development and change.
18.       Institution Development.  This program will focus on developing the
Training Division's capacity to provide improved training services for its
clients, through the development of training facilities and technologies.
19.       Information System Development.  As part of the Management Information
System, a data base on human resources will be designed to support human reource
development programs. Cooperation between Personnel and Training Divisions in
this activity will receive more emphasis.



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Long Term TraininQ Program
Project Year
PrograkActivitY                            Official               Lhiit           1           2            3           4           5              TotaL
A. Trainina Courses
Senior Land Adfin officer                                          7            course/person                                                1/40        1/40         2/80
Introdcwtion to Survey 1*                                                       course/person                      10/375                                            10/375
Surveying                                                         1-3           course/person           2/80        2/80        4/160       4/160       4/160        16/640
Land TechnicaL Officer                                           5-6            course/person           1/40        1/40         2/80        2/80        2/80        8/320
Land Right Investigator                                           1-4           course/person           1/40        1/40         2/80        2/80        2/80        8/320
Valuation                                                         1-5            course/person          1/40         1/40                                             2/80
Computer                                                          1-5           course/person           2/40        5/100       5/100       5/100       5/100        22/440
Aduin Psychology Seminar                                          6-8            course/person                                   1/40        1/40        1/40        3/120
Train the Trainer                                                5-6            course/person           2/40        2/40         4/80        4/80       4/80         16/320
Introduction to Training                                         5-7            course/person           2/60        2/60         2/60                                6/180      Ln
Service to PubLic                                                 1-6           course/person          15/600      15/600                                           30/1200    o
Project and Plan                                                 4-6            course/person           1/25        1/25                                              2/50
Effective Tea Building                                            7-8           course/person                       3/120                   3/120                    6/240
Adjudication Party Superintendent                                 5-6            course/person          1/200       1/275       1/275        1/275      1/275        5/1300
Seminar
New BLO Staff Training                                            1-6           course/person           4/60        4/160       4/160       4/160       4/160        20/800
Orientation (for Lard Right Cert                              new staff                                                                                              16/675
Issuance Division)                                                             course/person          16/675
B. Develomient of Training Staff
Social/Developaent Research                                      3-7                person                2           2           2           2           2            10
Recruitment of new staff                                          1-5               person               34                                                            34
C. Evaluation and Monitoring                                                       time/province                      5/20                     5/20                    10/40
of Training (field work)
tD X
(D X



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Information Systems DeveloDment
Background
1.        Technical computing for survey control, photogrammetry, digitizing,
and transformation was introduced in LTP I and is now well established.
Administrative computer systems for Finance, Personnel, Training, Supply, and
management information, were developed in LTP II, all based on the mini computer
purchased as part of the LTP project. Also, as part of LTP II, a very successful
LIS pilot project was undertaken and further work is continuing. There has also
been a pilot project for matching property valuation data.
2.        A separate but complementary initiative by DOL is to computerize the
land office registration function by installing computers in 50 land offices.
This program, which will continue under this project, will provide further
opportunities to improve operational practices and records management in land
offices and needs to be integrated into the overall IS strategic plan.
3.        Organizational arrangements have been improved by the development of
a policy framework and the creation of an executive committee and 3
subcommittees. Also a new structure for Computing Division has been formulated
which includes 2 new subdivisions for IS management, and IS development (User
Support).   The development of computing staff has been enhanced through the
provision of AIDAB sponsored post graduate studies and short term training, and
participation in group study tours. However, a significant issue will continue
to be the lack of sufficient experienced management level staff.
4.        An IS strategic plan will be developed during the final 12 months of
LTP III that will reflect the needs of the organization through the active
participation by DOL management.
Proiect Oblectives for IS
5.        DOL's core responsibilities involve the management of several layers
of land related information, and DOL will need to play a key role in sharing of
information with other agencies.   DOL is now at a critical point in the
transition from a number of successful computerization activities to the
implementation of corporate-wide integrated information systems.
6.        The scope of work for the project includes:
(a)   implementation of computers in 29 land offices;
(b)   development of LIS systems in at least four land offices
(c)   creation of 1 central system for CVA, and possibly 6 regional systems;
(d)   acquisition of an additional mini computer to meet the growth in the
central administrative systems;
(e)   development of local administrative systems in land offices;
(f)   integration of possibly several hundred personal computers; and



- 52 -
(g)   building the technical infrastructure particularly in the area of
communications and networking.
7.        It will be necessary to develop and implement appropriate policy,
planning, standards, and data administration. Areas to be covered include:
(a)   Policv
Determine responsibilities for Managers, Users, and Data Custodians
Information Resource Management for Corporate Data; Storage and Back-
up; Security; and Privacy
Systems Integration
Project Management
Data Quality
Equipment maintenance
Provision of data to other agencies
Asset Management
(b)   Planning
Applications Project Plan
Technology Plan
Telecommunications Plan
Capacity Plan
Disaster Recovery Plan
(c)   Data Administration
(d)   Monitoring and Evaluation
organization and Imlementation
8.        The  organizational  environment  will  be  dependent  on  finally
establishing the expanded Computer Division (the IS Center) which includes the
new subdivisions for IS Management and IS Development. Recruitment of staff for
these new functions is vital, and the continuing commitment of DOL executive
management to achieve this objective is required. The above arrangement will
provide DOL with a core group to concentrate on the policy, planning, and
management issues. However, there will be a lack of experience in these areas,
which will be addressed by the engagement of international/local consultants to
provide expertise to develop policy, standards, plans, and strategies, and for
overall project management, and systems integration.
9.        Another key success factor will be the overall coordination of budget
expenditure so that the equipment and services being funded separately by the
World Bank and RTG are administered as one, in line with the overall IS strategic
plan.  A commitment by DOL executive management is required to authorise the
Director IS Center to seek approval from the IS Executive Committee for
acquisition and implementation of all IS activities throughout DOL, based on the
recommendation of the consultants.
Costs under Prolect
10.       The investment costs for equipment would amount to Baht 90 million



- 53 -
(approx. US$3.65 million), and Baht 70 million (approx. US$2.7 million) for
technical assistance (to be provided by international/local consultants).  A
further Baht 3.5 million (approx. US$140,000) is to provide a complementary
series of management and technical training.
Im=acts. Benefits, and Risks
11.       The most significant impact will be in developing a corporate ethos,
a collegiate style management framework, policy and planning initiatives, and
implementation of an integrated technical infrastructure, which together will
provide DOL with the facilities of a modem organization. The accomplishments
in this project ensure that DOL will not only be capable of supporting RTG policy
and initiatives for information technology in Thailand, but should enable DOL to
be a model for other agencies.
12.       The major area of risk is that DOL does not have sufficient numbers
of skilled staff and lack experience in policy, planning, and in the general area
of strategic management. The engagement of international consultants is vital
to ensure success of this project, as well as build partnerships and skills
transfer for future sustainability. It will also be essential that DOL obtain
independent advice and expertise during this phase from international consultants
on preparation of specifications, contract conditions, engagement and ongoing
supervision of monitoring and evaluation.
Terms of Reference of IS Consultants
13.       These TORs only present the frame of activities to be provided by the
consultants, and an estimate of the scope of each individual consultant's
services is presented in the table to this annex. Detailed TORs will be prepared
by DOL, with the assistance of the IS long term adviser during project year 1.
A single firm will be selected, one already established in Bangkok or an
international which is committed to locate to the city. It would already employ
highly skilled Thai staff or would have existing or well advanced plans for joint
ventures or partnerships with local companies. The detailed TORs will specify
the following services to be provided during project years 2-5:
(a)   procurement of hardware and software;
(b)   data capture;
(c)   development and testing of systems;
(d)   support to ensure the integration and compatibility of all systems and
services (administration, CVA, land offices, LIS);
(e)   preparation of standards and methodologies;
(f)  preparation of a telecommunications master plan;
(g)   review of LIS progress;
(h)   preparation of a master plan for the phase 4 project; and
(i)   training.



THAII.AN-D
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
IS Consultant Services
(Baht '000)
Person months                   Unit Cost                              Costs
YRI    YR2    YR3   YR4    YR5    TOTAL           YR1-5           YR1       YR2   YR3      YR4     YR5      TOTAL
Project Manager           10      12     12    12       6     52            328            3289    3946   3946    3946    1973    17102
Senior Syst. Integr.      10      12     12      0      0     34            316            3162    3795    3795        0        0    10752
Land Information           5      12     12      0      0     28            278            1252    3339    3339         0       0     7931
Admin. System              5       0      0      0      0      5             278           1252        0        0       0       0     1252
Technicat Standards        5       4      0      0      0      8            278            1252     1113        0      0        0     2365                                 1
TechnoLogy Specific.       5       8      0      0      0     13            278            1252    2226         0       0       0     3478                                4,
TeLecom nications          0       8      0      0      0      8            278               0    2226         0      0        0     2226
Data Administration        0      12     12      0      0     24            278               0    3339    3339         0       0     6679
MethodoLogies              0       4      0      0      0      4            278               0    1113         0       0       0     1113
Contigency Plan            0       0      8      0      0      8            278               0        0    2226       0        0     2226
Capacity PLanning          0       0      8      0      0      8            278               0        0    2226       0        0     2226
Monitoring & Evat.         0       0      8      0      0      8            278               0        0    2226        0       0     2226
Strategic Planning         0       0      0    16       0     16            278               0        0        0   4452        0     4452
Auditing                   0       0      0      0     16     16            278               0        0        0     0      4452     4452
Secretary                 10      12     12    12       6     52              13            134      160      160   160        80      696
Secretary                  5       0      0      0      0      .5             12             56        0        0     0         0       56
TOTAL                                                                                  11651    21261   21261   8560    6506    69240                              P   0
M
m  X
H w



- 55 -
ANNEX 6
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Development of the Central Valuation Authority
BackQround
1.        CVA was established in 1984 with the main mission to provide a
comprehensive and independent property valuation service to determine impartial
and timely market values as the basis for all land and property tax revenues, for
equitable compensation to owners of land and property required for public
purposes, and for economic development planning throughout the Kingdom of
Thailand.
2.        RTG policy for CVA is to expand its capacity,  proficiency and
productivity, and to create a separate, independent public body to coordinate all
valuation functions undertaken for government purposes. In accordance with the
Fifth, Sixth and Seventh National Economic and Social Development Plans, there
have been established a series of institutional, financial and technical policy
goals which provide the strategic plan framework for the development of an
expanded and independent valuation authority.
3.        Initially, CVA was a very small organization of less than 100 people
and very little expertise.  The early focus of LTP I was in the provision of
valuation training. This was achieved, first by awarding scholarships enabling
Thai students to complete undergraduate degrees in valuation overseas, and
second, by the establishment of an undergraduate diploma course in Thailand,
which produces graduates for both the public and the private sectors. Later in
LTP II, the focus was on the production of a strategic plan for the development
of CVA into an organization capable of supporting the government's valuation
needs in a rapidly developing land market economy.  This project aims at the
implementation of the expansion of CVA as laid out in the strategic plan.
Constraints to CVA Development
4.        Staffinn.  Currently, CVA has a total staff of approximately 160
people. Approximately 60 of these are used as valuers of which only 8 have
formal valuation qualifications to undergraduate degree level. In addition to
this there are approximately 44 graduates with a two year diploma from the
Bangkok Institute of Technology. The size of the jurisdiction is some 20 million
parcels which, by international standards, may be one of the larger jurisdictions
in the world. Experience from overseas jurisdictions would appear to indicate
that a staff of the order of a few thousand rather a few hundred would be
required to complete the task to a satisfactory standard.
5.        Professional Training.  The public sector demands a high level of
professional expertise if the citizens of Thailand are to receive a fair and
equitable determination of compensation in land acquisition matters and a fair
and equitable basis for property taxation both recurrent and otherwise.  RTG
increasingly depends on the public sector property professional to assist in



- 56 -
achieving its economic goals.  The Valuers Association of Thailand (VAT) has
recently drafted a set of international valuation standards, by which valuations
for public purposes must comply. This has created an urgent need for a property
profession trained to achieve and maintain these international standards, which
can only be attained in a sustainable manner by establishing a four year
undergraduate degree program together with a postgraduate program as part of the
Thai university system.  Initially, these programs should be fostered    with
linkages to overseas universities to help facilitate the establishment of such
programs in a reasonable period of time.
6.        Career Structures.  Career structures within CVA need to be revised
in order to give the two year diploma graduates a satisfactory career structure
as assistants to the degree graduate.   Currently, on the completion of the
course, a diploma graduate has little hope and no assurance of working in a
valuation position as there is no valuation career structure through which to
progress. This is acting as a deterrent to DOL staff undertaking this area of
study in spite of scholarships being offered and hence the overall performance
of CVA.
7.        Mass Appraisal.    The mass appraisal  function  is the essential
valuation technique to provide an updatable valuation base that is necessary for
the implementation of the Government's property tax policy.   Abvout 180,000
parcel valuations would be undertaken in the first year of the project (including
revaluations), increasing to 970,000 in the final year of the project (including
revaluations). Currently, individual parcel valuations are only carried out in
the metropolitan area of Bangkok and in some regional centers with the less
accurate block system of valuation covering the rural areas. Revaluations are
only carried out on a four year cycle which in a dynamic land market economy
causes inequities especially as there are no real quality controls in place to
monitor the  situation.    Modern  information systems  and land  information
management techniques need to be urgently developed to support this aspect of the
professional valuation function.
8.        Land Acguisition.  A major issue with land acquisition program is the
almost total lack of professional staff to undertake this important function.
On average there are approximately 10,000 valuations per year which need to be
performed and currently this can only be achieved using the value for property
tax purposes as the basis for compensation. As this value is usually well below
market value inequities are present which need to be addressed. Currently, there
are major infrastructure projects which are being delayed by the inability to
satisfactorily conclude the acquisition process.
9.        Decentralization.  Currently, all of CVA's activities are centered in
Bangkok. In order to increase their efficiency and effectiveness the valuation
function should be decentralized to at least a few of the larger regional
centers.
Proposed Prolect Activities
10.       The project aims at establishing a properly managed and developed
government valuation system.   This can make a positive contribution towards
alleviating poverty and providing government with the basic data and machinery
for implementing land reform measures.   It would,  therefore,  support the
implementation of the five year strategic development plan prepared as part of



- 57 -
LTP II and designed to increase the capability of CVA to be more fully able to
provide a satisfactory valuation service to Government.
11.        Project Investments.  The project would provide US$2.75 million for
the construction of six regional offices and office equipment, vehicles, and
furniture to support the operation of the offices. Also included is the purchase
of a computer assisted mass appraisal (CAMA) system and the concomitant hardware
and software, and GIS equipment to interface with other DOL and Government
mapping products.
12.        Under the strategic plan staffinq levels would be increased from the
present level of about 160 to over 600. This increase is based on the maximum
yearly increment that can be productively absorbed into CVA's activities. A new
career  structure  would  be  created  for  the  diploma  valuation  graduates  to
complement that created for the professional valuer.  This would enhance the
professional capacity of the organization and enable the more efficient and
effective  use of human resources.   The project would also  include  further
development of the strategic plan of CVA beyond the project to full development.
13.        The project would support the development of both undergraduate and
postgraduate degree courses as part of the Thai university system. Initially,
these programs would be fostered with linkages to overseas universities and
designed to meet the urgent needs of the public and private sectors to support
and manage the ever growing land market economy.
Valuation Education and Training Costs
(Baht '000)
A. Valuation SchoLarships   Unit  YR1  YR2  YR3  YR4  YR5  Total  Unit  Total
Cost  Cost
BIT program support     p.y.  300  300  300  300  300  1500  300    1500
S.A. (4-yr)             p.y.    0    5   10   15  20    50   45    2250
B.A. (2-yr dip)         p.y.    0    5   10   15  20    50   45    2250
Postgraduate (1-yr)     p.y.    0    5    5    5    5    20   45         900
Subtotal               300  315  325  335  345  1620            6900
B. Valuation Courses
Univ. program support   p.a.   -    -    -    -    -    -        -      1500
MateriaLs, equipment    p.a.   -    -    -    -    -    -        -      7550
Feasibility study       p.a.   -    -    -    -    -    -        -       500
Curriculun deveLopment  p.a.   -    -    -    -    -    -        -      4350
Program implementation  p.a.   -          -    -    -    -       -    16100
Subtotal                                                        30000
Total Costs                                                     36900
p.y. = person year; p.a. = per annum



- 58 -
14.       Emphasis would be placed on the development of data manacement expertise
essential to achieve the establishment and maintenance of a data base necessary to perform
a wide variety of valuation services by CVA. This would be developed in accordance with
the broader DOL IS strategy, to support:
(a)   computer assisted mass appraisal techniques for revaluing, on a parcel basis,
the whole country on a regular revaluation program;
(b)   valuation work required for land acquisition and compensation by government and
other special valuation services; and
(c)   planning and land administration studies undertaken by Government.
15.       Service delivery would be imvroved by decentralizing the valuation function into
six regional centers in targeted economic development areas allowing closer contact with
the clients.
Imvlementation
16.       Implementation would depend on staffing and career structure requirements being
met by Government. Staffing requirements are important not only in terms of numbers but
more particularly in terms of skills. The training of enough people with the right skills
is a factor limiting the growth of the valuation function. It would be managed and its
progress monitored with the development of basic management information systems, which
would be continually developed throughout the project.
17.       Planning and budgeting would follow a top down approach driven by functional
requirements of the organization instead of by middle level management perception of
resources available. This would be an important step forward and one which would greatly
contribute to the success of the project.



59                                                    ANNEX 6
Table 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Strategic Plan for First Five-Year Phase of CVA Development
OBJECTIVES                          STRATEGIC ACTIONS                       PHYSICAL TARGETS
1.   Undertake regular cycLe of        (a)  Complete new valuation rolls   Parcels:
land and property                      for all provinces by Jan. 1,   - base mapping   : 3,203,000
valuations for revenue                 1996                               - valuation        : 3,076,000
purposes                          (b)  Use CVA valuations for all         - val. adjustment: 4,334,000
DOL and DOLA revenue              - valuation rolls: 4,324,000
purposes
(c)  Increase use of mass
appraisal methodologies
(d) Complete plan for revision
of valuation rolls on
regular cycLe
2.   Implement computerized land    (a)  Ensure quality and security    Comptete installation of
valuation system with                  of data in data base               computer equipment in all 6
quality data and allowing         (b)  Ensure coordination with DOL   regional offices
exchange of data with other            land offfices
systems                           (c)  Obtain technology services
from private sector
3.   Provide valuation service         (a)  Ensure high quality                - Special valuations of 288,000
for special projects to                standards                          parcels
Govt. and private sector          (b)  Improve quality of                 - New valuations for 470
valuations for expropriation   condominium projects in Bangkok
and compensation                  and 450 in provinces
(c)  Standardize use of CVA             -Adjust valuations for 680
valuations for all RTG            condominium projects in Bangkok
purposes                          and 600 in provinces
4.   Create an organizational          (a)  Establish staffing pLan             - Create organization with 615
structure and obtain the          (b)  Provide adequate resources         officials
resources necessary to                 for CVA as a natonal               - Establish 6 regional offices
sustain a national                     authority
valuation authority               (c)  Progressively establish
regional offices in areas of
economic development
5.   Attract, develop, and             (a)  Establish career paths for         - Complete 9.5 units of in-house
maintain a competent and               goverrnent valuers                 training of 120 s.w. each
professional valuation            (b)  Conduct in-house training          - Increase diploma staff to 90
staff                             Cc)  Establish degree valuation         - Degree training to 12 diploma
courses in-country                staff
(d)  Increase staff's                   - Enrol 30 staff in local degree
international exposure            valuation courses
- Provide 276 s.w. of overseas
valuation training
- Provide 732 s.w. of English
training for overseas study
6.   Inform property owners,           (a)  Design and implement a              - Provide 9 units of 130 s.w.
clients and Government                 formal public relations            of technical training and public
about the role of a                    program                            seminars
national valuation                (b)  Expand program of CVA
authority and the benefits             workshops and seminars
which flow from its
function.
Total  Costs          : Baht  715,179,100  (US$28  million  equivalent)



- 60 -
ANNEX 7
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance
1.        DOL has received considerable technical assistance from AIDAB under
LTP I and II.  This assistance was concentrated  on achieving the technical
objectives of the projects through technology transfer and measures to improve
productivity.   However,  in order to consolidate and sustain the improved
technical capacity of DOL, further TA will be required to address the
institutional strengthening objectives of the project. The requirements for this
phase have been identified as: project administration; human resource management;
valuation; and service delivery.
2.        It is recognized that the process of institutional change is a long
one, and therefore TA would provide a core of long term advisers. However, in
order to ensure that DOL takes control of the process of change, the advisers
would be phased out over the last two years of the project, leaving DOL to
implement accepted strategies and recommendations with assistance from the
Manager TA. The composition of the adviser team and the planned phasing out of
advisers would be subject to review after two years of project implementation to
examine achievements, future work programs, problems encountered and any change
to inputs which may be required within the approved allocation of staff months.
3.        In Proiect Administration,  assistance is required to ensure the
effective management and coordination of the technical assistance program, to
assist DOL in overall project management and to assist DOL in liaison with other
RTG agencies, the Bank and AIDAB. In addition, this component would include a
strong element of assistance in setting the strategic policy framework required
to support the institutional changes which will be essential for the long term
sustainability of the project within DOL.
4.        In Human Resource ManaQement, the objective would be to assist DOL to
make the most effective and efficient use of its human resources. Assistance
would be provided to support the RTG policy of improving the level of service in
the public sector while at the same time containing present staff levels. The
development, management and effective deployment of staff will be a basic element
in implementing this policy in DOL. A key aspect of TA will be to assist DOL in
the preparation of a human resource management and development strategy.
5.        In Valuation,  the objective would be to assist CVA to consolidate
itself as the national valuation authority. Assistance at a strategic level is
required to undertake the expansion contained in the master plan completed under
LTP II.   Specific assistance is also required in the specialist areas of
computing and expropriation.



-6 1 -
6.        In Service Delivery,  the objective would be to strengthen DOL's
capacity to provide a stable and effective system of land administration to
ensure maximum benefit to the community as a sustained return from the project.
In particular, TA would be provided to strengthen the Information Systems Center,
and to assist in streamlining the system of land registration and records
management.
7.        A total of 290 staff months of long and short term assistance would
be provided as detailed in the TORs below, and summarised in Table 1.
Training
8.        Under LTP I and II, there was a substantial AIDAB funded training
program of fellowships for long term training in Australia, specialized short
term training and group study tours. Further focused training is required to
support the change of emphasis towards the institutional strengthening objectives
of the project. To this end, long term fellowships will be provided in the areas
of human resource management/development and information systems. Short term
study tours, training and work experience in Australia will be provided to senior
DOL officials in a range of management, policy and planning areas. In addition,
to support the development of an undergraduate valuation program in Thailand in
conjunction with an Australian university, a masters fellowship in valuation will
be offered t the Thai university. A total of 7 person years of postgraduate
training and 410 person weeks of short term training and group study tours would
be financed by AIDAB. Other training will be funded directly by RTG and the Bank
loan; this is shown in Table 3 for specialized short courses conducted by the
Training Division of DOL. In addition 40 scholarships per year will be funded
under the Bank loan for studies in Survey Engineering at Chulalongkorn University
and 30 awards per year will be provided for DOL staff to undertake a Diploma in
Valuation at the Bangkok Institute of Technology (BIT).
Administrative Support
9.        Provision is made for administrative support and would include the
following as required:
(a)   communications;
(b)   local staff(secretarial, translation etc.);
(c)   equipment (word processors, fax, photocopier)
(d)   project related travel;
(e)   seminars and promotion; and
(f)   printing and stationery.
10.       In summary, the indicative budget for TA, training and administration
in phase III is as follows:
Technical Assistance:            5,380,000
Training                           455,000
Administration                     415,000
Total                         US$6.250.000
Note: the budget is presented in US dollars and using exchange rates of
AUD1.00 = Baht 17.85 and AUD1.00 = US$0.70.  This equivalent of the actual amount



- 62 -
(AUD 7.2 million) will depend on prevailing exchange rates and the contract
negotiated in AUD between AIDAB and the successful tenderer.
Terms of Reference for Consultants
(a) Proiect Administration ComDonent
11.       Director, Technical Assistance  (12 staff months) . The consultant
should have an appropriate tertiary qualification and substantial management
experience in the direction of large projects involving high levels of planning
and coordination. Familiarity with World Bank and AIDAB procedures is desirable
and an awareness of the cultural environment of the project is essential. The
position is Australia based and part-time over the duration of the project. Bi-
annual project visits would be undertaken. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   direction and overall management of all advisers and coordination of
input from the various consultants and government departments in
Australia;
(b)   assisting the Manager (Technical Assistance) with Project management,
including planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation;
(c)   financial management and reporting to AIDAB;
(d)   management of the AIDAB funded training program; and
(e)   liaison with DOL, other RTG agencies, AIDAB and the World Bank.
12.       Manager.  Technical Assistance  (60 staff months).   The consultant
should have an appropriate tertiary qualification and substantial direct
experience in the management of a large multi disciplinary project. Team and
relationship building skills and an understanding of the cultural environment of
the project is essential. Familiarity with AIDAB and World Bank operations and
reporting practices would be desirable. The main responsibilities would be :
(a)   management of the adviser team and all other aspects of the technical
assistance program;
(b)   assisting DOL in overall strategic planning and project management;
(c)   assisting DOL in the implementation of organizational and procedural
changes and strategies recommended by project advisers;
(d)   coordination of in-country and overseas training;
(e)   preparation of project reports; and
(f)   liaison with other RTG agencies, AIDAB and the World Bank.
13.       Systematic Land Adiudication Specialist (6 months in PY1, followed by
2 months in PY2). This specialist would have a degree in surveying, land law or
other land related discipline, and have at least 10 years experience in the
support of land administration systems, with particular experience in the
systematic adjudication and registration of rights in land. The specialist should
have international experience, preferably in countries in South East Asia and
desirably in Thailand. Also the specialist should have analyzed large complex
adjudication and registration systems, particularly where the register is
distributed rather than centralized. The main responsibilities would be to:
(a)   working  closely  with  the  Land  Document  Division,  review  the
adjudication, survey, mapping, title production and distribution
procedures and, as a result of this review, develop options to stream-



- 63 -
line each key of the procedures. This review would consider the
factors that must be addressed in implementing the various options,
including technical, legal, regulatory, human resource, organizational
planning/coordination and administrative, and should provide estimates
of costs and benefits.
(b)    on the basis of the review mentioned in (a), make recommendations to
DOL for improvements to the system, categorizing the recommendations
into short term, medium and long term measures supported by a
preliminary implementation plan.
(c)    assist DOL in reviewing the recommendations and developing a full
implementation plan.
(d)    during a subsequent two month assignment in Thailand, assist DOL in
reviewing the status of the work being undertaken under the
implementation plan prepared in (c).
(b) Human Resource Management Component
14.       Human Resource Management Adviser (42 staff months). The consultant
should have appropriate tertiary qualifications and considerable consulting
experience at senior level in human resource management and development in a
large public sector agency. An in-depth understanding of the Thai public sector,
and ability to coordinate with the relevant RTG policy making agencies and
programs is essential. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   in close cooperation with the Civil Service Commission, assisting DOL
in the preparation of a human resource management and development
strategic plan;
(b)   advising DOL on HR issues resulting from the impact of reorganization,
organizational innovations and changes,and manpower redeployment;
(c)   in close cooperation with the Civil Service Commission, assisting DOL
in establishing appropriate staff development plans and career paths
in DOL;
(d)   through the Training Division,  assisting DOL in formulating and
implementing management development programs to improve both
headquarters   and   provincial   administrative   and   managerial
capabilities;
(e)   assisting the Personnel Division in identifying a HR data base and
developing HRM information in the MIS framework in DOL; and
(f)   providing appropriate advice and technical inputs related to HR issues
in other areas in the technical assistance program.
(c) Valuation Component
15.       Principal Valuation Adviser (60 staff months). The advisor should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications and preferably ten years experience at senior
management level. Eligibility for corporate membership of a recognized
professional valuation institute is desirable. Cultural awareness and a
demonstrated ability to implement change within a large public sector valuation
organization is essential and have desirably The main responsibilities include:
(a)   assist in the organizational development of the Central Valuation
Authority (CVA);
(b)   help facilitate and implement strategic planning objectives of the
CVA;



- 64 -
(c)   advise on the facilitation of links between an Australian university
and a Thai university for the development of a tertiary valuation
program as part of the Thai university system;
(d)   assist in identifying areas requiring additional assistance and in the
procurement of appropriate consultancy support;
(e)   provide advice on valuation systems and expropriation matters as
required;
(f)   generally assist CVA in liaison with the private sector and in the
development of the valuation industry.
16.       Valuation Systems Adviser (12 staff months).  The adviser should have
appropriate tertiary qualifications, eligibility for corporate membership of a
recognized professional valuation institute, and have a demonstrated ability and
experience in designing and implementing computer based valuation systems as part
of an overall land information system. The main responsibilities include:
(a)   assist CVA in establishing the data base and information systems
necessary to support all the valuation functions required by
government as part of the governments overall land information
systems.
(b)   assist  CVA  in  establishing  appropriate  computer  assisted  mass
appraisal systems.
(c)   assist  CVA  in  its  liaison  with  the  IS  centre  and  its
national/international consultants.
17.       Valuation Expropriation Adviser (18 staff months). The adviser should
have appropriate tertiary qualifications, eligibility for corporate membership
of a recognized professional valuation institute, and a minimum of five years
experience in expropriation procedures, legislation and information systems. The
main areas of responsibility include:
(a)   advise on land expropriation valuation principles and practice that
would be appropriate for Thai circumstances.
(b)   advice on systems and procedures, both within the office and between
the office and its various clients.
(c)   advise on data administration issues that will help establish the
expropriation function as part of the government's overall land
information system.
(d)   advise on training matters , both external and internal.
(e)   advise on legislative matters.
(d) Service Delivery Component
18.       Information Resource Adviser (36 staff months) . The consultant should
have appropriate tertiary qualifications and work experience in information
resource management at a senior management level within a large organisation,
preferably a land related agency in the public sector. The main responsibilities
would be :
(a)   assisting DOL in the organisational change process from technical
computing to information resource management;
(b)   assisting in implementing the IS Strategic Plan and in selection of
national/international consultants who will be responsible for



65 -
preparing strategies, plans and policies, to ensure total integration
and compatibility of all IS systems and services across DOL.
(c)   providing direct support to the Director,  Information System (IS)
Centre, particularly in the areas of policy development and
information management and in supervising the national/international
consultants;
(d)   assisting in evaluating progress and in identifying areas requiring
additional assistance; and
(e)   closely cooperating with the adviser team with special emphasis on IS
staffing and training matters.
19.       Land ReQistration System Adviser (42 staff months) . The consultant
should have tertiary qualifications in business studies, law or other appropriate
disciplines with considerable experience in land registration practice and
records management techniques, a demonstrated ability to implement change within
a large traditionally oriented organization, an aptitude for the conduct of
comparative legal studies and a sympathetic awareness concerning Asian cultural
attitudes. The main responsibilities would be:
(a)   fostering an ongoing review of land office forms and procedures;
(b)   assisting in preparation of a uniform and simplified system of land
registration and records management and where necessary advising on
the requirement for primary and secondary legislative reform to
achieve this goal;
(c)   providing assistance to and working in close cooperation with the DOL
Land Administration Development Team;
(d)   assisting in training and guiding DOL staff in new practice and
procedure; and
(e)   closely cooperating with other advisers in identifying areas requiring
further assistance and assisting DOL in the procurement of appropriate
consultancy support.



- 66 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 1
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Technical Assistance
YEAR
COMPONENT ACTIVITY             HONTHS      1      2       3       4       5
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Director, Technical Assistance    12            2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4
Manager, Technical Assistance        60        12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Syst. Land Adjudic. Specialist        8         6.0    2.0      -       -       -
Subtotal         80        20.4   16.4   14.4   14.4   14.4
HUMAN RESOURCES
Human Resources Development          42        12      12     12       6       -
Subtotal          42       12      12      12       6       -
VALUATION
Strategic Valuation                  60        12     12      12      12      12
Information System                   12         -     12       -       -       -
Expropriation Specialist             18        12       6      -       -       -
Subtotal         90        24      30      12      12      12
SERVICE DELIVERY
Inform. Resources Management         36        12     12      12       -       -
Land Registration                    42        12      12     12       6       -
Subtotal         78        24      24      24       6       -
TOTAL         290       80.4   82.4   62.4   38.4   26.4



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
Environmental Baseline Data
1.        DOL has engaged the Center for Applied Economics Research, Faculty of
Economics, Kasetsart University (KU), to collect socio-economic baseline data,
conduct periodic benchmark surveys, and to undertake data analysis to determine
the impact of the Land Titling Projects.   KU collected baseline data at a
sampling of villages in project areas and in control areas in northern and
northeastern Thailand in 1987, prior to issuance of land title deeds under LTP
I. This data is comprehensive as it relates to social and economic factors
linked to land tenure and land use.  Only a portion of the data is relevant,
however, for measuring environmental impacts of the granting of land title deeds
to farmers.
2.        KU conducted the first benchmark survey in 1992 in provinces covered
by the project, and in control areas or non-project provinces, in both northern
and northeastern Thailand. A socio-economic benchmark study (December 1992) was
prepared on the findings of the survey. The principal objective of the study was
to "assess the impacts of the Land Titling Project on the recipients of secured
land titles. Primary data was collected in Chiangmai province as representative
of provinces in the project area in the north, and Lampang province as
representative of provinces in the control or non-project area in the north. In
the northeast, Buriram was selected as the province in the project area, and Roi-
Et as the non-project or control area. The KU study analyzed the impacts of the
issuance of land title deeds on agricultural credit, investment, productivity,
land price, and social organization.1 A socio-economic baseline survey would
be conducted under LTP II in the eastern region of central Thailand, in provinces
with more urban development and in which portions of the LTP III would be
implemented.
Maior Gavs in Existing Data
3.        The existing socio-economic baseline data for both project and non-
project areas in the north and northeast is sufficient to enable preparation of
subsequent socio-economic benchmark studies.   Data is lacking however,  for
provinces in central (eastern and western) and southern Thailand, where no
baseline survey work has been undertaken against which socio-economic impact can
be measured. A baseline survey is scheduled by DOL for east central Thailand
during 1994. Also, baseline data on environmental indicators (identified below)
will be necessary in all regions. This will require returning to project and
Center for Applied Economics Research,  Faculty of Economics  and
Business   Administration,   Kasetsart   University,   Socio-Economic
Evaluation of the Land Titling Project, Final Report (Bangkok:
Department of Lands, Ministry of Interior, 1992), p. 3.



- 68 -
non-project provinces in northern and northeastern Thailand (originally surveyed
in 1986), as well as modifying the questionnaire to be used in central and
southern Thailand, to include a survey of selected environmental factors that
will be used to measure environmental impact of granting land title deeds.
Sampling should be modified and/or expanded to include data collection in the
following areas:
- close to forested areas (to determine encroachment and deforestation)
and upland areas (to determine soil erosion, crop diversification, and
vegetative cover)
- adjacent to streams and rivers (to determine level of siltation and
destruction of water course buffer zone)
- coastal areas (to determine encroachment into mangrove forests and
beaches)
4.        Additional data should be collected related to the following:
- on-farm use of organic and inorganic soil additives
- conversion of lands for livestock ranches and pasture
- occurrence of soil salinity
Areas at Risk of Being Impacted
5.        Coastal Lands. As the land titling program expands to provinces with
sea coasts in central, eastern, and southern Thailand, coastal lands may be at
increased risk of being impacted by the granting of land titles.   In  many
locations along Thailand's coasts, sandy beaches have been encroached and
degraded through construction of ponds for shrimp and other aquaculture
production. Lack of a timely program to register land occupants and issue land
title deeds will be addressed and corrected through LTP III. As land titling has
not yet operated in coastal areas, the impact of issuing land title deed on lands
adjacent to these areas is not seen as a serious problem.
6.        Forest Lands.   The clear demarcation of forest lands by RFD is an
indirect positive environmental benefit derived from the land titling projects.
Most forest lands in Thailand have been demarcated only on 1:50,000 scale maps,
but not on the ground. Due to this situation, DOL has taken the positive action
of refusing to issue land title deeds to occupants of private lands adjacent to
designated national forest reserves, national parks, and wildlife sanctuaries.
DOL has remained a safe one-half kilometer away from the boundary of forest lands
and by being over-cautious, has not issued to legitimate land owners title deeds
to which they are entitled.
7.        Through LTP III, DOL, RFD, and LDD have agreed to work together to
have RFD carry out ground demarcation of forest boundaries on the ground,
allowing DOL to issue land title deeds up to the official demarcation line of the
declared forest area.   Granting of secure title up to demarcated  forest
boundaries may result in increased encroachment on to forest lands. In the past,
forest boundary markers were sometimes moved by land owners to increase the size
of private holdings at the expense of state forest lands.   Land clearing,
logging, and expansion of crop production usually followed, resulting in
permanent  loss of forest cover.   The secure knowledge  that,  after field
demarcation of forest boundary lines secured by boundary stones with coordinates
clearly identified on UTM maps, DOL will not issue title deeds to parcels beyond
these boundary lines will be a strong discentive to further forest encroachment.
Modern surveying techniques to precisely define these boundary lines would be a



- 69 -
powerful tool under the project.
8.        Steep Sloped Lands.  Based on a Thai Cabinet resolution of December
3, 1985, land with a slope greater than 35Z is forest land and cannot be issued
with a land title deed.   DOL has been diligent in following this Cabinet
directive in its accelerated program of granting secure title to land holders.
Continuation of this practice in LTP III is a positive step and will be
environmentally beneficial overall.  LDD reported that DOL has requested its
assistance on several occasions to determine if individual parcels of land were
eligible for title. While LDD would not examine individual pieces of privately
claimed property, it would agree to evaluate an area of several square
kilometers, covering numerous parcels of land. Providing a technical opinion on
individual parcels of land placed LDD's personnel in danger from incrimination
by locally influential persons. Several constraints were pointed out by LDD in
being able to provide this service to DOL, specifically:
- Due to the geography of northern and southern Thailand, LDD is faced
with hill and mountainous areas that consist of slope complexes.
Although one portion of a slope complex may have a slope of greater
than 35%, a portion just above or below it may be flat.  When LDD
evaluates an area, it reports to DOL the percentage of an area that
has a slope greater than 35%, and indicates on a map of 1:50,000 scale
the area that is affected. If an individual's land has a small area
that has a slope greater than 35%, DOL will issue a title deed for the
portion of the parcel that has a slope less than 35 percent, but not
for the area with a slope greater than 35%. If an individual's land
has a large area with a slope greater than 35Z, DOL will not issue a
title deed for the small portion of the parcel that has a slope less
than 35Z.
- DOL provides aerial photos to LDD to analyze regarding slope but the
photos are dated. Maps provided by DOL have a scale of 1:50,000 which
has to be expanded by LDD to a scale of 1:4,000 for accurate slope
analysis; this expansion causes maps to be distorted and analysis to
be incorrect.
Environmental Impacts
9.        Overall, the project on the physical environment would be insignifi-
cant. The findings of KU's 1992 socio-economic evaluation indicate that issuing
of land title deeds to farmers has had a positive impact on land and soil
management, and therefore on the environment in general. Farmers have begun to
invest in their land, knowing that their title is secure. Also, as their land
is now a "tradeable" asset, farmers realize that any investment in land improve-
ments can be recovered should the land be sold. This positive change in land use
behavior and attitude is seen as important environmental enhancements.
10.       The intensification and diversification of agriculture, incentivized
by the granting of land titles, likely will have an impact on local environmental
conditions. Capital investment in infrastructure (irrigation and drainage works,
improvements to minimize soil erosion, fish pond construction, etc.) generally
will have a positive impact and lead to use of more advanced and environmentally
friendly farm management practices.



- 70 -
11.       Negative impacts on the environment may result, however, if farmers
do not adopt improved crop production technologies, or if those technologies are
not effectively transferred through agricultural extension systems. Mismanage-
ment of irrigation water and lack of sufficient drainage in irrigation systems
can lead to increased soil salinity; expansion of crop production to uplands and
sloped areas can lead to increased soil erosion and siltation of streams;
increased use of pesticides and soil additives may cause contamination of water
and soils; and, a concentration of fish ponds can compound salinity problems.
Indicators to be Monitored
12.       The socio-economic surveys conducted by KU in 1987 and 1992 covered
many factors that can be used to analyze the environmental impact of the Land
Titling Project.  The 1992 evaluation report points out that:  "...possession of
land title will lead to greater security in land holding, and this will induce
farmers to invest in order to raise their incomes through more efficient use of
their land resources." The relevant factors that are already being monitored
that can be used as measures of efficient land use as well as of environmental
impact include the following:
- Expansion of land area for agriculture production: increased land
purchases by farmers; size of average holding
- Land improvements: removal of stumps and roots, and land levelling
- Investment in capital assets: machinery, tools, materials, livestock
- Use of agricultural inputs (chemicals, soil additives, labor)
- Crop yields and efficiency of production
- Land use intensity; changes in cropping patterns; new crops
- Land prices
- Changes in migration and occupational structures and diversity
Relationships between Indicators and Environmental Protection Obiectives
13.       KU's 1992 report on the "Socio-Economic Evaluation of the Land Titling
Project" show the following impacts of the Land Titling Project:
- Expansion in area cultivated. Farmers increased their borrowing to
purchase additional land for cultivation, with the number of farmers
expanding their land area in project areas significantly higher than
in non-project areas.  This is likely a result of the security of
title on any land purchased, the farmers' ability to access institu-
tional credit to expand production, and their change of attitude from
short-term to long-term perspective, with a willingness to more
sustainably manage their land holdings as a result of having secure
title. Increased land purchases by good land stewards is a trend that
enhances environmental protection.
- Land improvements.   The removal of tree stumps and roots,  land
levelling, and construction of wells for irrigation, have increased
significantly in project areas. Land levelling, which allows for more
efficient management of irrigation water and increased rice yields,
increased 770% in project areas in northeast Thailand, but only 2072
in non-project areas of the same region. These types of improvements
are seen as enhancing the environment and making more efficient use
of land resources.
- Increased investment in Production assets. Investment in production



- 71 -
assets includes expenditures on farm tools and machinery. The project
impact in the northeast is not yet clear, but farmers in the north are
investing more in capital assets (67%) than those in non-project areas
(42%). The principal item in which capital was invested was the two-
wheeled tractors and trailers to carry produce.   The tractors are
multi-functional, being used for ploughing, (the engines) for pumping
water for irrigation, and for transporting agricultural commodities.
The use of such tractors to improve land preparation techniques is
seen as a positive environmental trend, in that less chemical
fertilizer will be required to sustain yields.
Increased use of farm inputs, specifically seeds, pesticides, and
chemical fertilizer. The study found that investment in agricultural
inputs is higher among farmers in project areas than in non-project
areas. The amount of cash used to purchase agricultural inputs in the
northeast decreased less (31%) than in the non-project areas (33%).
A similar situation was reported in northern Thailand, with less of
a decrease in project areas (25%) than in non-project areas (60%).
The use of inputs decreased in general during 1992, as a result of
unusually dry weather, leading to generally lower farm production.
The lower decrease in investment in farm inputs in project areas is
indicative of more concern by the farmer in the maintenance of
sustainable yields. Farmers are more willing to invest in land that
has secure title, knowing that such investments will improve the soils
from which he and his progeny will benefit.
-Increased yield and value of farm production.  The study found that
provision of land titles contributes significantly to an increase in
the total value of all crops produced, measured in terms of net income
and rice yield per rai. The value of agricultural yield of all crops
produced in project areas in the northeast increased by 248%, while
the increase in non-project areas was 71%.   Similar results were
reported for project and non-project areas of northern Thailand, but
differences were smaller for northeast Thailand. These results are
indicative of farmers' willingness to invest in agricultural inputs
to maintain production levels.  An expansion of the socio-economic
survey should examine more environmentally positive technical
practices such as the use of organic soil additives, and the operation
of integrated pest management techniques.
Farm income.  Although the KU report indicates that project effects
on income are not yet clear, land titling is expected to affect only
farm income directly. Thus, the impact will be more significant if
income derived from on-farm sources is a higher proportion of a
household's total income. In northern Thailand, the project is having
a significant effect on farm incomes, as farm income from crops
decreased by only 15% in project areas, but decreased by 47% in non-
project areas during 1992, a year of unusually dry weather in northern
Thailand.
The report further indicates that the provision of title contributes
to a decline in poverty. The report states that in the project areas
of both the north and northeast, the number of households declined in
all income groups of less than B 12,000 per year, while the number of
households with incomes greater than B 12,000 annually rose. In non-
project areas, the study reports that the number of households at
lowest income levels increased, while the number of households in the
highest income groups also increased.   This shows that the Land
Titling Project not only contributes to increasing income levels, but



- 72 -
tends to decrease income differentials.
Factors related to reducing the incidence of poverty are important in
the still heavily forested northern region. Farmers who can expect
to earn increased on-farm income will not find it necessary to sell
their labor for logging and/or poaching in national forest reserves
and protected areas. The result should be a decreased dependence on
income from forest resources and a reduction of deforestation.
Decrease in average land holding size.   The study points out that
average land holding size in project areas decreased, likely from the
division of holdings among family members when title deeds are issued
through the project.   The average houseplot size in the northeast
project area decreased by more than 302, and 25Z in the north.  No
similar significant changes in land holding size had occurred in non-
project areas.   The reduced size of land holding may enhance the
environment as labor input will be more intense on smaller plots, thus
ensuring maximum attention is given to maximizing output from the
plot, while sustaining agriculture production.
Farm production systems.  At the time the most recent KU benchmark
survey was carried out (1992), the land titling project had not
affected cropping patterns, not induced the introduction of new crops,
nor had any impact on land use intensity.  These factors should be
monitored carefully in the future as they have the potential to impact
significantly on the environment. A change in cropping patterns to
crops that require high levels of pesticides (e.g., cotton); or the
introduction of new crops (e.g., Eucalyptus spp.); or, more intense
use of land (as a result of investment in irrigation works), have the
potential of introducing factors that may have environmental impacts.
Changes in farm technoloxv.  According to the KU report, changes in
technology are attributable indirectly to implementation of the land
titling project.   Adoption of new technologies,  such as use of
improved rice seed, two-wheel tractors, fertilizer and chemical
inputs, is a result of the granting of land title deeds, that are then
used to obtain institutional credit, which is mobilized to invest in
these technical changes. Such technical changes should be monitored
carefully in the future as they have the potential to impact signifi-
cantly on the environment. The use of more advanced technology that
results in increased farm income will be a positive factor that will
enhance the environment, although any significant increase in the use
of chemical fertilizer and pesticides will likely have a negative
impact on environmental conditions.
Structure of occupations.  The analysis found that there was no change
in basic occupational structure in either project or non-project areas
in both the north and northeast.   Farming is mostly a wet season
occupation, while off-farm employment in urban areas continues to be
the principal source of dry season income. Less migration is evident
in the north, where crop production continues the year-round on
irrigated farm land. Monitoring of rural occupations in project areas
is necessary to determine off-farm income opportunities that may
impact on the environment. of particular interest is the establish-
ment of agro-industrial facilities in rural areas that may result in
waste management and environmental pollution problems, as well as the
expansion of plantation crops for processing.



- 73 -
- Wealth of farmers. The KU report indicates that the project may be
contributing to the creation of social stratification in project
areas. The survey data indicates a significant increase in the wealth
of farmers who have sold their lands. Although they likely would have
sold their land anyway, they were able to sell some or all of their
land at a better price as a result of gaining secure title.  This
group of wealthy farmers should be monitored to determine if they
evolve into locally influential persons who may engage poor farmers
to undertake illegal destruction of forest resources.
Opportunities for Environmental Enhancement
14.       Implementation of LTP III will lead to several opportunities for
enhancing the environment where land title deeds are issued to farmers. These
include, but are not limited to the following:
- Protection of forest areas.  No land title deeds will be issued for
parcels that encroach on forest lands. DOL insists that forest lands
adjacent to private lands must be definitively demarcated prior to the
issuance of any land documents to the privately held parcel. DOL has
proceeded to define an arrangement to support RFD through the project,
to accelerate the demarcation process, specifically around national
forest reserves and protected areas that are adjacent to private
lands. The inducement seen here is that potential encroachers will
hesitate to invest in land expansion and clearing activities, knowing
that they will never have an opportunity to gain title to the en-
croached land. This is an environmental enhancement.
- Protection of sloped areas: No land title deeds will be issued for
parcels or portions of parcels that are occupy land that has a slope
of 35% or greater. DOL required that LDD prepare a detailed analysis
of any slope complex area to ensure that the 35% directive is upheld.
This procedure contributes to environmental enhancement.
- Development of land use codes and local zonint ordinances.   The
acceleration of issuance of land title deeds for lands adjacent to
protected forest areas, coastal resource areas, and steep sloped lands
will likely lead to the need to develop land use codes. These codes
can be enacted by Parliament, the Cabinet, or through regulations
prepared and enforced by the Ministry of Interior.   Local zoning
ordinances currently can be issued by district officers (Ministry of
Interior officials), but will in the future likely be instituted by
local sub-district councils (the lowest level legislative body in
Thailand), as these councils are strengthened. The issuance of land
title deeds will facilitate enforcement of such codes and ordinances,
as registration of land owners has been regularized.
Analysis of Alternatives
15.       Without Proiect Scenario.  In the without project situation, it is
likely that the following conditions would arise in terms of impacts on the
environment:
- Forest lands adjacent to private lands likely would be encroached,
resulting in forest destruction.
- Steep sloped lands (slope greater than 35%) likely would be degraded
and vegetative cover and watersheds destroyed, resulting in serious
soil erosion, increased silting up of streams and rivers, and changes



- 74 -
in hydrology patterns.
- Farmers would invest less in their land, making farming activities
less productive and generating less on-farm income. This would lead
to increased poverty and likely an increased dependency on natural
forest resources.
- Registration and legalization of private land holdings would be
delayed, resulting in additional delays in the lack of understanding
of the need for land use management through land use codes and local
zoning ordinances.
Proiect Environmental Monitoring Activities
16.       Soclo-Economic and Environmental Impact Studies.  The monitoring plan
proposed for measuring the environmental impact of the LTP III has required
modification and expansion of the socio-economic survey work and evaluation
studies currently operating through the Land Titling II Project. The terms of
reference for Kasetsart University have been modified to include references to
monitoring and evaluating data that will indicate the environmental impact of
issuing land title deeds to private land holders. KU will expand its question-
naire to include questions related to factors related to monitoring environmental
impact. It will also be required to provide the services of an environmental
economist to analyze the data from an appropriate perspective.
17.       The monitoring of factors indicative of environmental impact would be
undertaken at the same time that the socio-economic surveys are being conducted.
Additional costs would be incurred through the addition of an environmental
economist; the need to return to northern and northeastern provinces to collect
baseline environmental data; and, the need for survey teams to spend slightly
longer time collecting data in the field as a result of the addition of specific
questions related to environmental factors. The monitoring objectives would be
to:
- Determine the impact on environmental conditions of issuing title
deeds for lands adjacent to urban areas
- Identify trends in changes of land use
- Identify changes in social and economic conditions that were not
predicted
- Identify and measure direct and indirect benefits from land titling
18.       Monitoring of Titling Operations in Forest and Watershed Areas. Under
the regular project activity for ground survey and demarcation of forest
boundaries, RFD and LDD will submit six-monthly reports to DOL on these
activities. The reports will include information on progress of these activities
and on the impact of titling operations on parcels inside and outside of forest
and watershed boundaries.



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators (1995 through 1999)
Unit                                  Year
1        2           3                4       5           Total
(a) Rural Mapping
AeriaL Photography        sq km           33,540    61,240           -              -           -       94,780
(ruraL & urban)
Photomap Production       mapsheets        5,200      5,200      5,300         5,400       5,450        26,550
(ruraL maps)
(b) Urban Mapping         mapsheets          650        850        900           910         920         4,230
(c) Land Titling
Ground Survey             parcels        252,000   408,000   408,000         408,000    408,000    1,884,000
Photo-Adjudication        parcels         96,000   115,200   115,200         115,200    115,200        556,800
NS3K Conversion           parcels        192,000   192,000   192,000         192,000    192,000        960,000
Total                            540.000   715.200   715.,200        715200    715.200   3.400.800
:S4 Transformation        parcels        463,500   309,500   307,300         319,000    272,300    1,671,600
NS3K Transformation       parcels        145,000   148,000   148,000         148,000    148,000        737,000
Total             parcels        608.500   457.500   455.300         467.000    420.300    2.408.600
(d) Land Administration
New Branch LOs            units                 5          -         4              6           1            16
Expansion LOs             units                15         5         16             20           9            65
New Strong Rooms          units                17         4         17             22           7            67
Staff Houses              units                51        12         51             66          21           201
(e) Valuation
New Regional Offjces    units                   -          1         1              2           2             6
Trained Valuers  /        staff                50         0         30             35          40           155
Valuations                parceLs        545,000   584,000   557,000         880,000  1,087,000   3,653,000
(f) Staffing              units
New Adjudication Teams staff yrs                -       690          -              -           -           690
New CVA Staff            staff yrs             65        81        128            143         157           574
(g) Technical Assistance
Long Term Advisers        staff mns         60.0       60.0       60.0          36.0        24.0         240.0
Short Term Advisers       staff mns         20.4       22.4        2.4            2.4         2.4         50.0
TotaL                                80.4      80.4       62.4           38.4        26.4         290.0
th) Training
Long Term                 staff/mns             -      5/72       1/12              -           -         6/84
Short Term                staff/mns        17/33   30/57.5    13/9.5         15/12.5         10/5     85/117.5
1/   t of new Diploma/Degree Graduates per year



- 76 -
ANNEX 10
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year          Cumulative Disbursements   Proiects Disbursements (S)
and Semester                (US$M)      (Z)          LTP II a/    Thailand
FY95    1                  -           -              4               0
2                 5.9         5             12                2
FY96    1                 24.8        21             22               5
2                30.7        26             30                9
FY97    1                 43.7        37             38               15
2                54.3        46             46               24
FY98    1                 66.1        56             60              32
2                77.9        66             98 b/            41
FY99    1                 89.8        76            100 b/           50
2               101.6        86             -                58
FY00    1                112.2        95                             69
2               118.1       100                              78 c/
a/ Actual for Loan 3254-TH (Land Titling II Project)
b/ Estimated
c/ Full disbursement in 8 years



Thailand: Land Titling III Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1994              1995              1996               1997               1998              1999              20
ID                                            Start    Finish   Ql I Q2 I Q3 I Q4  Ql 22 |13 I  Q4  Ql                                      1 Q2 I Q3 I Q4 Ql I Q2 I Q3 I Q4  Ql  2Q2   Q3  Q4
1 Project Prepartion                        4/1/94   10/1/94
2 loan Effediverms                         10/3/94   10/3194
3 AeFidlPhoto Procuremnt                    4/1/94   12/2/94                    Aerida Photo P ruent
4  Specify Area                     4/1/94    4/1/94    *  Completed
5      Specifications                       4/1/94    4/1/94       Comnpleted
6       WB Approval                         4/1/94    5/3/94
7       DG Approval                         5/3/94   5/24/94
8       Bids                               5/24/94   8/23/94
9       Select Supplier                    8/3/94   9/20/94    I
10      WB Approval                         10/3/94   1 1/294
I I     MOI Approval                        8/23/94   10/4/94
12      Prqare contract                     10/4/94  10/25/94
13      Issue Contract                      I 1/2/94   12/294
14 Acrial Photo Flying                      125/94    4/5/95
15 Aerial Trimgulation                       5/3/94    91/94
16 Changwat Implentation                    10/3/94   12/3/97                        i                                                  Changwat Implementation
17     Nakhon Sawan Province                10/3/94   12/3/97 1_                                                                        Nakhon Sawan
NahnSwnProvinc
I1          Changwat Activities             10/3/94   12/3/97                                                                           Changwat Activities
19              Photo Map Production         4/5/95   126/95
20                Foreat Bounday Reaohin    12/6/95    3/6/96
21                Urban                     12/6/95    7/5196   |Uron
22                     Documet Search       12/6/95     1/5/96
23                     Field Surny           I/396    4/5/96
24                     Survny Pb             4/3/96    6/5/.6
25                     Map Pard Inda         653/96    7/5/96
12/Rural (NS4)   IV6/95   12/3/97    . |         .                               _          Rural (NS4)
27                     NS4 Transfonnalion    12V6/95   12/3/97
28               RurW (NS3K)                12/695    U1u97
3/8/94                                                                                  Page 1



i!r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~~ ~  L
l~~~~~~~~~~-   -    I1 Ntrt1Xe1       ELLi
3 CZ                                           33        i  S    aa     BW   3   i w  z Si a !
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    2
1I1-
I I xauuy



- J -J-a   -J  -4 0%  0%  0%   0                  i 0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%   %       o  -^  -^ &    o A   A   % I 
'0  00   4   0%  00  .4  0%  %~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~    A   %~~~  14  -J~~    14 -J  #4    1          4 -    4 - 
t      I a1 a                                                                                                                 Iaa        
 k   i   a   i   |   a   O   W   B       B        /    B    a    O   a    a    O    w    |    O     X       Wo    O    OC 
I______ i auvS- 6   - -



-J ,'                                        ' [                                                   -4  t13 0 | '          lt f 
00  !4 t.J                   1    !                        IC 00   ..l O~   ~ .   A   W   S~J   -  0    A  |~ 1~4   -  c
I I                                                                                                                     Iu
00
A   A   A~~~~~....   .....  ..... A ....  .....  ..... A .   ..    ..........  ....    ....    ....  ...    .    ..  ....    .............   .... ....  .. .......
-u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a                     I~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~. ~ ~   ~       ~        1
IT xauuv



- 81 -
ANNEX 12
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Supervision Schedule
Project
Year        Date        Duration               Skills                                        Area of Concentration
(m/yr)        (weeks)
1        11/94            2.5        Task Manager                            Loan effectiveness; review continuity wlth LTP
Human Resources                        11, FY95 work programs and budgets; aerial
Land Registration                      photography procurement; NS3K transformation
action plan; CVA development.
1         2/95            2.5         Task Manager                           Branch land office operations; NS3K
Legal                                  transformation; CVA development; information
Information Systems                   systems; training.
Institutions
Valuation
2         8/95           2.5         Task Manager                           Computerization of tand records; branch and
Human Resources                        district land office operations; training and
Land Registration                      career development; review of FY96 work programs
and FY95 progress reports.
2         2/96            2.5         Task Manager                           Socio-economic studies; human resource
Economist                              development; CVA development; DOL
Information Systems                   decentralization; information systems.
VaLuation
3         8/96            2.5         Task Manager                           FY97 work programs and FY96 progress reports;
Land Registration                      Information systems.
3         2/97            2.5         Task Manager                           Progress of studies; information systems; CVA
Economist                              and DOL development; staff training and
Human Resources                        promotion.
Valuation
4         8/97            2.5         Task Manager                           FY98 work programs and FY97 progress reports;
progress reports; progress of studies; land
registration.
4         2/98            2.5         Task Manager                           CVA and DOL development.
Institutions
VaLuation
5         8/98            2.5         Task Manager                           FY 99 work programs and FY 98 progress reports.
Land Registration
VaLuation
5         2/99            2.5         Task Manager                           Preparation of completlon and lnpact evaluation
Human Resources                        reports.



- 82 -
ANNEX 13
THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
WORKING PAPERS
1.        Detailed Phase Three Project Implementation Plan, February 1994.
2.        LTP III Preparation Notes, August 1993.
3.        Final Report of the Socio-Ecoomic Evaluation of the Land Titling
Project by Center for Applied Economics Research, Faculty of Economics, Rasetsart
Uniiversity, July 1993.
4.        The World Bank's Experience with Rural Land Titling by the World Bank
Environment Department, Policy and Research Division, March 1992.
5.        Draft  form  P  for  Land  Titling  Project  Phase  III  - Technical
Assistance.
6.        Project Completion Report for Thailand Land Titling Project (Loan
2440-TH), June 1993.
7.        Strategic Information for Development of Central Valuation Authority,
Kevin Copeland, February 1992.
8.        Urban Mapping Report, L. Haley, Sep. 1990.
9.        Cadastral Adviser Final Report, B. Cross, Dec. 1989.
10.       Photogrammetric Adviser Final Report, K. Wilson, Dec. 1989.
11.       Project Cost Tables.



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
*                    I        Z~~~~~~~INISTER   |
|DEPUTY NtHISlER |                      DEPUTY MINISTER    |                ELT   INISTER  |               DEPUTY MINISTER
OFFICE OF                     THE COMPItMITY                                                            TOW HAD COUNTRY
_ T1HE SECRETARY        _        DEVELOPNEHT                 _  OFFICE OF POLICY Z PLANNING                   PLANNING                        CORRECTIONS
70 THE MINISTER                   DEPARTNENT                                                                  DEPARTNENT                       DEPARTMENT
OfFICE OF                                                                                                 THE OFFICE OF
_    THE PER4ANENT      _LtANDS                             _   PU4LIC UELFAAE DEPARTNENT                 ACCELERATED RURAL                       LABOR
SEcRETARr                     DEPARTMENT                                                                   DEVELOPMENT                       DEPARTMENT
THE LOCAL                                                                                                                                   THE NATIOAL
ADMINISTRATION                    PUBLIC HORKS                   METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY                 PROVINCIAL UATER                       OUING                         0
DEPARTMENT                       DEPARTMENT                             AUTHORITY                        UORKS  AUTHORTYIT
1              M |  NETROPOLITAN                                                                                               BAIGKOK
THE POLICE                      WATER UORKS                      PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY                      MARKETING                        METROPOLITAN
DEPARTMENT                l      AJTNORITY                              A UTNOtITY                         ORGANIZATION                      AOHISTRATION
THE PUBLIC      j
PROSECUITIONl
DEPARTHENT



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF LANDS
|DIRECTORt GENERAL
_          t      ~~~~~~SPEC I AL I ZED
|DEPtiT DG                           DEPUTY OGDCPU r DG                                                       DEPUtTY DG                           DEPUTY DG
LAND KSIHESS                    LAND TITLE                          CALCLATION
_  f I LMICE                      PLANNING                               COCTRttOL                                                        DATA PROCESSING
DIVISltDIO                        DIVISltDIIODIVISl8ll DIV                      NDIVISION                                                     DIVISIO
LEGA&L
g    PRINTING    l       l    LAND DOCUMENT                             AFFAIRS                        LAND RECORDS                       PIIOTOGRAIIETRY
- |   DIVISION    l      |        DIVISION                              DIVISION                         DIVISION                            DIVISION
l  LAND                      LAND RIGHT                           LAND ALLOCATION                  PUBLIC DCM_AIN
MANAGEMENET                     CERTIFICATE                              CGUISSION                    SURVEY * CONTROL                   MAP TRANSFORMATION
I   |   DIVISIOII           ISSUANCE DIVISION                            DIVISION                        DIVISION                             DIVISION
1 .                   CENTRAL                      PRIVATE SURVEYOR                       StRVEYING
. TRAINING                      LAND TITLING                           VALUATION                        COMITTEE                                a
DIVISIO                       MPROJECT OFFICE                          AUTNOITY                           OFFICE                         MAPPING DIVISION
g  WPPLY                      SLAND OFfICES                         EXPR IATION       I|A|OK LAND
l   DIVISION    l                AREAS 5-7                               OFFICE                          OFFICES
f LAND OFFICES                                                           L                                LAD OFFICES
|  AREAS 1-4   JAREAS 8-10                                                                                AREAS 11-12



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
LAND TITLING PROJECT OFFICE
PROJECT DIRECTOR
(DIRECTOR GEVERAL)
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR
(DEPUITY DG)
PROJECT NMAAGER
MONITORING                                               FINANCE                                               FOREIGN
PLANNING                    EVALUATION                  PROCUEMENT                     WDGET                  ADMINISTRATION                RELATIONS
SECTION                      SECTION                      SECTION                     SECTION                      SECTION                   SECTION



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
Issuing of Titles
Aerial Photography
Flight nn  Tender                    eodetic Survey                           Satellite Data
P taming
Aerial Photography
flying (Contractor)                 Control Surveys
Aerial Triangulation:
Ptock Adjustment
Production of Photompsa
Forest Boundaries
Demarcatlon    J
r  Urb n  >  |   Rural (iS4)   t        r       Rural (1130)          |               |Rural (lUrdocmented)              0\
| Dcusnt earch                                                            ---------  Autoeated  Iransformation   |---- ------- Adjudication 
a                                        a~~~~~~~ 
Transformation                                                             I
!   Fleld Survey                               hS4 (old) to                              Field Checks: Survey and            (2)        Survey and Map
HS4 (UTH) Hape                                    Adjudication                              Compilation
compilation of                                                                                                                                     I
Survey Plens                                                                                Docusent Conversion:       ---                    itle Deed
(Controt From                                                                              Title Deed Preparation                          Preparation
I           ~~~~Photom ps  nd_
Field Survey
I                                                                                            F     Checking of Title Deed 
Map Paurcel                                                                                                                                                I
rIndexes                                                                                                                                                  I  
Hndling Over of Cadastral Maps/Deeds/Indexes to Land
_  I   Offikce-Continual Update                   d          p
Issuing of Title Deeds



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
REVENUES OF DEPARTMENT OF LANDS
20
/ -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5
20-/_    i *  
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
|Transfer Fee 1l Income Tax   Stamp Duty
Ln






100-  .                                           104-
|f                                          THAILAND
LAND TITLING  III PROJECT
M Y A N M A R                                                                     CADASTRAL COVERAGE PRIOR TO LAND TITLING PROJECTS
20                                  ,4                                                                                   20-
-20'  j ;, ,* ^    X                               ,, ,,\  PROVINCES UNDER LAND TITING I PROJECT
*._. l . '   - V : f;. 4.*. - X   .             _   PROVINCES UNDER LAND TITLING 11 PROJECT
PROVINCES UNDER LAND TITIUNG I PROJECT
rp                                  0                                   .--  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
L A O INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
W  ~ ~~~~ \                        \-               GLEoAstuub') 1--''s'!   s'k,
4                                           ~~~~~~~~~A
?,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Th. b..|,do,,.. |.I.n d.w,Ji.... .,S d iDE                          REP
. p  |  h , vr | | E | i _E j~~~~~~~'j    k~
] LX  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI11
;,t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. T-e 0
O   lOo   is ;>ii oo-X-  t   ^)   |i ;r>yS'iX  ;-                              s    2>"-E.Chne Se
r~~~~~~. N;t   8;vbihg>t                   Z       e~   f             -      ow      IIY          ,d
~~~~~~~r;*,ls,,)>(\.t-  .W< _L,  
6!7vn>t+e,  *  5,wh F  
- Ij          :  o f           MALAYSIAX                                               RNfSIA.   b 
_   d                   . _ _ . . _ ,   . _



