Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25637
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37970)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$118.1 MILLION
TO THE ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF
THAILAND
FOR A
LAND TITLING III PROJECT
March 26, 2003
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 24, 2003)
CurTency Unit = Baht
Baht 1.0 = US$ .024
US$ 1.0 = Baht 42.93
FISCAL YEAR
Govenmment October I - September 30
IDA      July 1 -  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDAB         Australian Intemational Development Assistance Bureau
AusAID        Australian Agency for International Development
BLOs          Branch Land Offices
CSC           Civil Service Commission
DOL           Department of Lands
LTP IV        Fourth Land Titling Project
IS            Information Systems
LIS           Land and Infomiation System
LDD           Land Development Department
MOF           Ministry of Finance
PO            Public Organization
RFD           Royal Forestry Department
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Ian C. Porter, EACSQ
Sector Manager/Director:  Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team LeaderTask Manager:     Wael Zakout, EASRD



THAILAND
LAND TITLING III
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                        16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             29






Project ID: P004803                                     Project Name: LAND TITLING III
Team Leader: Wael Zakout                                TL Unit EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 26, 2003
1. Project Data
Name. LAND TITLING III                             L/C/TFNumber CPL-37970
Country/Department THAILAND                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (97%); General
public administration sector (3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/01/1994                            Effective: 12/01/1994        12/19/1994
Appraisal.  02/01/1994                              MTR: 03/01/1997           08/01/1997
Approval:  09/27/1994                             Closing  09/30/2000         09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency* Royal Thai Government/Department Of Land
Other Partners: AusAID
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                            Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                           Pamela Cox
Team Leader at ICR:  Wael Zakout                              Yves Wong
ICR Primary Author:  FAO
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance- S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
The main objectives of the project were to: (i) provide secure land tenure to eligible landowners; (ii)
develop the long term sustainability of the Department of Lands (DOL) institutional capacity; (iii) improve



land administration service delivery; and (iv) develop an effective national property valuation function.
Overall, the project was to support the Government's national land titling program which had been
accelerated since 1984 with Bank and Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB)
assistance. This national program aimed to complete issuance of land titling deeds nationwide over a 20
year period.
Overall, the objectives of the project were and continue to be very relevant to the priorities of Thailand's
national economic and social development plan. They were also in line with the Bank's country assistance
strategy for Thailand, which addresses poverty and income distribution issues, human resource
development, and environmnental management. Poverty Assessments of Thailand indicate that a vast
majority of the employed household heads that are below the poverty line are employed in Agriculture, and
these households put holding a secure land title as one of their most important priority. The project was to
address this important need of the target group. In addition the project, and the Government's 20-year
program of land titling, pursued to develop a fully functioning land market, which would improve allocative
efficiency from sale of land, credit market efficiency, as well as reduce social tension from prevention or
quick resolution of land disputes.
The objectives were also clear and realistic, focussing on land titling, improved land administration service
delivery and institutional development. The project planned to extend the gains made by previous projects,
LTP I and II, by extending the coverage of the Government's land titling program as well as by improving
the land administration service delivery in terms of reducing the cost of producing a title through
introducing new technologies and decreasing the time to process land registration through re-engineering of
land office processes. In addition, the project had planned to modernize the national property valuation
function by creating a professional service.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout the implementation period. However,
following the downtum in the Thai economy and a consequent freeze in staff recruitment, the Government
was unable to provide the 574 staff required to achieve the property valuation expansion plan, and the
design of the property valuation component had to be revised. Consequently, the original plan was scaled
down in 1999, and a modest development plan, taking into account existing mandate and manpower of
Central Valuation Authority (CVA), was developed and implemented in the last two years. The revised
design of the property valuation component aimed at increasing CVA's operational efficiency through
training, developing and piloting the computer-assisted and market-based valuation methods, and studying
means of transfonning CVA into an autonomous national valuation agency.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components: (a) issuing secure land titles using three processes,
adjudication, conversion, and transformation (US$118.9 million); (b) improving DOL service delivery
through decentralization of DOL and land office operations, improving land office records management,
and a formulation of a land registration computerization strategy (US$17.1 million); (c) strengthening DOL
through the development and implementation of a Human Resources Development Plan and the support of
an information system center (US$17.5 million); (d) developing the CVA to provide an effective national
valuation function (US$15.1 million); (e) institutional development through technical assistance and
training (US$6.3 million); and (f) studies to evaluate the socioeconomic impact of the project (US$0.5
million). The actual cost of these components are included in Annex 2.
-2 -



Within these components, a number of complementary activities were also initiated: (i) demarcation of
forest boundaries to address the issues of untitled parcels adjacent to Reserve and Permanent Forests and
also to prevent forest encroachment, (ii) piloting the document imaging systems to address the problems of
land record management and storage facilities; (iii) formulation of an information system (IS) strategy to
further improve DOL service delivery; and (iv) establishment of a formal education in property valuation at
a Thai university.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were left essentially unchanged. At the request of the Government, the Bank extended project
completion and loan closing dates by two years to allow for the completion of project activities when
progress had suffered from the economic downtum in 1997. During the extension period, the land titling
and the improved land administration service delivery components were expanded, and several activities
were initiated and implemented, including formulation of DOL strategy, HRD plan, and study on means of
transformation of Central Valuation Authority (CVA) into a Public Organization (PO). Under property
valuation, technical training in valuation and piloting the computer-assisted and market-based valuation
methods were undertaken.
The overall project design was quite appropriate to deliver the project objectives. More than two-thirds of
the effort (in terms of base costs) was to support the adjudication, conversion, and transformation
processes required to rapidly extend the coverage of the land titling program supported by two previous
Bank-financed projects. To make this extension of coverage more efficient, both in terms reducing the cost
of producing a title and improving the time to process land registration, the DOL needed to be
"deconcentrated" and issues of HR and IS addressed. Project design allocated about twenty percent of the
effort to these two components (components b and c above), which were to directly support the second and
third objectives (develop the long term sustainability of DOL institutional capacity, and improve land
administration service delivery). Of course, these two components aided the main objective of securing
land tenure as well. The valuation component (about nine percent of base costs) was to support the fourth
objective of developing an effective national property valuation function. The fifth component of continuing
support of technical assistance (TA) and overseas training (about 3.6 percent of base costs) was required to
introduce the technological change in DOL which were to influence all the four objectives. Lastly, the sixth
component for some follow-up socioeconomic studies (around 0.3 percent of base costs) was necessary
since many impact indicators generated from earlier studies had remained unclear about the full benefits of
the program, and was expected to guide public investments in the sector.
Within the components, possibly because of the experience gained from the previous two Bank-financed
projects, the indicators and details of the implementation plan created a clear picture of the target for the
project implementation team particularly for the most important first component. However, some design
deficiencies existed in addressing the project sub-objectives of demarcation of forest boundaries, and
information system development, as well as the objective of property valuation development. For example,
the detail design did not provide effective policy direction and working arrangements between DOL, the
Royal Forestry Department (RFD) and the Land Development Department (LDD) for delineation and
demarcation of forest boundaries. Had the policy direction been agreed and working arrangements
developed at the design stage, forest boundary demarcation would have started at the outset of the project
and more works completed. Similarly, the IS strategy was very complex and over-ambitious. The strategy
aimed to generate 40 technical outputs, including IS strategy, data standards, network strategies, LIS,
management information system and overall systems of management and integration. The wish-list lacked
the guidance of a qualified and experienced IS expert at both project preparation and appraisal. It would
have been more cost effective and valuable to DOL's future development had a small-scale study been
- 3-



developed. Such a study could have had simple objectives to develop a data base and automation of land
registration, with subsequent testing and expansion to larger scale operations if the results were
satisfactory. Finally, the design also underestimated the property valuation expansion plan. It required prior
promulgation by the Government of the Property Valuation Bill, and was therefore dependent on
unpredictable political support. In addition, because valuation is not a primary function of DOL, growth of
the Central Valuation Authority (CVA) was a lesser priority for DOL and limited support was given by
DOL to the implementation of the plan. Following the economic downturn in 1997 and Government's
freeze on recruitment, decisions by DOL management on staff deployrnent did not give priority to CVA,
and the required 574 incremental staff was not made available. The above difficulties resulted in serious
implementation problems and eventual scaling down of the efforts. Given the above constraints and
difficulties prevailing at the- time of project preparation, it would have been more realistic and workable to
initially seek Government's commitment to promulgate the Property Valuation Bill and thereafter design
and implement a much smaller strategic plan through deployment of existing staff in CVA, intensive
training and development, and adoption of the market-based valuation methods and practices.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR mission rates the quality at entry as satisfactory, although greater attention could have been paid
to preparation and design of some of the development activities, particularly the IS strategy and the
property valuation expansion plan. The project preparation team was able to agree on the objectives and
coverage of the provision of secure land tenure and the improved land administration service delivery. It
also correctly identified what was required to bring long-term sustainability of DOL institutional capacity.
4. Achievement of Obbecitive and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The outcome of the project objectives is rated satisfactory. The project achieved the first three of the four
objectives satisfactorily. The outcome was highly satisfactory for providing secure land tenure to
landowners, and satisfactory for developing long-term sustainability of DOL's institutional capacity, and
improving land administration service delivery, but unsatisfactory for developing an effective property
valuation function.
The project has fully achieved its development objective of providing secure land tenure by providing titles
to about five million parcels, exceeding appraisal targets by about 40 percent. Based on socioeconomic
impact study of land title holders, one expects that these parcel holders to invest in their land and
equipment, and to be able to borrow more as well. The investments, from equity and borrowed funds, lead
to increases in production, household income, and land value. Consequently, by initiating a chain of events,
the project has contributed to poverty reduction while reducing social problems.
Similarly, despite some delays, the dual objectives of developing long term sustainability of DOL
institutional capacity, and improving land administration service delivery were achieved. DOL services are
now quick. At present, registration of land transactions are completed in most land offices in one day,
and in many land offices in less than three hours, providing time and cost s avings to landowners. This
responsiveness and cost efficiency were achieved through the establishment of branch land offices (BLOs),
"deconcentration" of land registration functions from provincial to district level and re-engineering the
operations of land offices. Technical capacity of DOL in land titling and land administration has been
successfully built from the earlier land titling projects and it has been reinforced through technical
assistance and local & overseas training under the project. A DOL organizational strategy and a HRD plan
were formulated, and are the first steps to consolidate DOL's institutional capacity in land administration.
-4 -



However, the project did not achieve two outcomes that would have enhanced the results of this project.
The project met only partially the objective of developing an information systems (IS) strategy and an
effective property valuation function. The IS strategy was partially formulated with serious delays. Its
outputs were only 60 percent of planned outputs at appraisal, and the product value is questionable and its
full application in the future is doubtful. Similarly, the property valuation expansion plan could not be
implemented, and the component's objectives were only partially achieved. Some technical training was
provided to valuation staff and CVA was restructured to increase its operational efficiency. However, there
is still a shortage of trained valuers and progress on the legislative side is needed for further development of
property valuation activities. Pilot computer-assisted and market-based valuation methods were undertaken
but the results were inconclusive and additional pilots are underway. A study on means of transforming
CVA into an autonomous national valuation agency was completed and its proposals were submitted to the
Government for consideration and action. Encouragingly, CVA was moved to the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) on October 1, 2002, and it is expected that the study's proposals to transform CVA in an
autonomous, revenue-generating agency will be supported by MOF.
4.2 Outputs by components
Output indicators are presented in Annex 1.
Provision of Secure Land Tenure. (70.4 percent of project expenditure incurred). This is overwhelmingly
the most important component of the project and output in this component was highly satisfactory. At the
end of the project, a total of 4.8 million new land titles were issued which exceeded appraisal targets by 40
percent. Over 3 million of these new titles resulted from the adjudication process, and about 1.7 million
were conversions from existing certificates of land utilization to land title deeds which are of higher value
to the beneficiaries. Whereas a certificate of utilization indicates that a the land holder has put the land to
use, a title deed indicates full ownership. In addition, around 3.4 million titles (about twice the appraisal
estimate) were transformed from old titles. This transformation plotted the old title maps and plans into
new cadastral mapsheets, renumbered the parcels, and noted this on the parcel files. This component
required, among other things, production of over 60 thousand map-sheets (about twice the appraisal
targets), and aerial photography of 118 thousand square kilometers of land (exceeding appraisal targets by
about 25 percent). Because of coordination problems, the delineation and demarcation of forests were not
as spectacular. But even then, over 21 thousand kilometers of forest boundaries were delineated and
demarcated (exceeding appraisal targets by about 12 percent).
Improved Land Administration Service Delivery. (10.0 percent of project expenditure incurred). Output
in this component was satisfactory. Following some delays, 90 branch land offices (BLOs) were
established, exceeding appraisal targets by about 40 percent. In addition, successful pilots were established
to test three systems. First, document imaging for land record management was piloted at DOL
headquarters and 20 land offices. A total of 17 million sheets of documents (exceeding appraisal targets by
37 percent) were microfilmed and imaged, which permitted discarding more than 80 percent of these
documents leading to substantial saving in storage costs while improving accessibility. Second the Civil
Service Commission (CSC) initiated a re-engineering program to pilot manual, semi-automated, and
automated land registry in 296 land offices, 4 land offices and 46 land offices respectively. Third, a land
inforrnation system (LIS) was pilot-tested in 5 land offices. The decentralized and manual land registry
systems have been effective in providing easier access and quick services to landowners. However, the
automated land registry and LIS systems have been used to only a limited extent because the systems are
still, as of the loan closing date, in the development stage.
- 5 -



Strengthening DOlLAnstitutional Development. (10.8 percent of project expenditure incurred). Output
in this component was satisfactory. One of the major thrust of the component was to develop the planned
36 adjudication centers, and staff them with adequate personnel, to deliver the 4.8 million titles. This is an
extraordinary achievement in light of the economic downturn and the public sector austerity measures. To
achieve this feat, DOL with assistance of CSC restructured its organization at headquarters, including
CVA, to increase operational efficiency and streamline overlapping works and responsibilities of the
Technical Divisions. DOL strategy and HRD plan were completed by the consultants, and their master
plans for implementation are currently being prepared by DOL. Following serious delays, the IS strategy
was partially completed: only 23 of the 38 contracted outputs were completed, some with questionable
quality. DOL is currently preparing a five-year master plan, using its pilot land registry experience and
partial inputs from the IS strategy, for implementation in the next five years.
Valuation Development. (3.8 percent of project expenditure incurred). Output in this component was
unsatisfactory. As mentioned in the sub-section on revised objectives, implementation of the original
expansion plan was stopped in 1999, and the scope of the component was subsequently revised. CVA
continued its traditional valuation methods, and a total of 2.3 million valuation rolls (64 percent of the
appraisal targets) were undertaken and updated. Other activities undertaken by CVA included
organizational restructuring, technical training in valuation, piloting of the computer-assisted and
market-based valuation methodology. In addition, a study on transformation of CVA into an autonomous
national valuation agency was formulated by consultants. Following the transfer of CVA to MOF on
October 1, 2002, there are good prospects for implementation of the study's recommendations in the future.
Technical Assistance/Training. (4.6 percent of project expenditure incurred). Output in this component
was satisfactory. The technical assistance supported by AusAID was implemented according to plan and
was effective in supporting the government in implementing the project. Formal education courses in
property valuation were successfully established at Thammasat University, and a total of 284 students,
including DOL staff, already received Post Graduate Diploma. Currently, 164 more students are attending
the Post Graduate Diploma, Bachelor and Master Degree courses. Technical and land administration
training conducted by the Training Division of DOL was satisfactory. A total of 14,925 staff was trained.
Studies. (0.4 percent of project expenditure incurred). Output in this component was satisfactory.A third
round of the socioeconomic and environmental impact assessment was completed during the
implementation of the project. Summary of the impact assessment is included in Annex 3 of this ICR.
A very successful three-day intemational conference on Thailand Land Titling Program was organized in
February, 2003 to explore the lessons and impacts of the land titling program. The conference provided an
opportunity to the Government to identify gaps in land policy and administration that could be addressed
with further interventions. For the World Bank it served as a consultative mechanism to discuss lessons
learned. It also provided an opportunity for knowledge transfer to representatives from various other
developing countries, such as Armenia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, Lao PDR,
Lebanon, Mongolia, Peru, Philippines, and Vietnam.
- 6 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No ERR was calculated for the project at appraisal. At ICR, the ERR of the project, calculated over a
period of 25 years, is estimated at 35.6 percent with the net present value (NPV) of Baht 8,759 million at
the opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent (see Annex 3).
The following sensitivity analyses have been undertaken:
*      If only 50 percent of agricultural areas under the project would benefit from the productivity
improvement, the ERR would reduce to 25.3 percent;
*      If the realization of benefit is delayed by two years instead of the assumed one year,
the ERR would drop to 24.3 percent;
*      If agricultural productivity in with project increases 6.6 percent over 10 years while the
productivity in the without project remains constant (no decrease), ERR would fall to 12.1 percent;
*      If agricultural productivity in with project increases 6.6 percent over 10 years while the
productivity in the without project decreases only 10 percent over 10 years, ERR would fall to
20.3 percent;
*      If 100 percent of the costs of DOL institutional strengthening are included in the cost stream,
the ERR would reduce to 33.6 percent; and
*      If operating costs of land administration costs increase by 20 percent,
ERR would fall to 34.4 percent.
The results of the sensitivity analysis show that ERR of the project is more sensitive to decreases in
benefits than increases in project costs. However, even under the above assumptions the project is still
economically viable, with the ERR ranging from 12.1 percent to 34.4 percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The FRR of the project at ICR was calculated to be 27 percent. The FRR calculations include benefits to
the Government in terms of registration and other fees, stamp duties, and incremental taxes (see Annex 3).
The financial costs include project costs (excluding the AusAID grant), loan interests, incremental salaries
and other operational costs. Without the interest costs, the FRR is 31 percent.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was satisfactory. Institutional development is evident in the development
and establishment of a formal educational valuation degree course at Thammasat University, technical and
land management training courses by DOL, organizational restructuring at DOL headquarters and CVA,
and formulation of DOL strategy and HRD plan. The improvement of land administration service delivery
directly reflects the institutional development impact of the project. Continuing technical training and
implementation of DOL strategy and HRD plan would help DOL to increase its operational efficiency and
sustain its primary functions of land administration and service delivery in the long run. The project has
been less successful with the implementation of the IS strategy, due to complex and over-ambitious initial
design and objectives. However, DOL is currently preparing a five-year master plan using partial inputs
from the IS strategy.
-7 -



Government revenues from land-related fees, tax and stamp duty peaked in 1996 when the national
economy was very dynanic. From the peak in 1996, when land related revenues were Baht32.2 billion,
land revenues have declined to Baht25.0 billion in 1997, and Bahtl9.0 billion in 2000. However, these
depressed revenues due to the economic crisis in Thailand compares favorably with that of 1984, the year
before the land-titling program started, when the revenue was just Baht3.8 billion. It should be noted that,
since the implementation of the project, DOL collected for the Treasury annual revenues seven times higher
than the DOL annual budget of about Baht2.7 billion.
S. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic downturn in 1997 had a major impact on project implementation. Government revenue
declined and the Government enforced strict austerity measures (e.g. manpower freeze, prohibition of
establishment of new offices, reduction of field allowance by a half, etc.). The Baht devalued from
Baht25.5 per US$ at appraisal to Baht43.5 per US$ at ICR. This steady devaluation of the Baht against
the US dollar with depressed local prices from the economic downturn meant that the Bank loan was not
fully utilized. The political support for passing the Property Valuation Bill did not improve in this
environment curtailing any expansion plan for CVA. As a result, the 574 staff required for the
implementation of the plan was not provided by CSC, and the design of the property valuation component
had to be revised.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Even before the economic downturn, the Government had started a process of downsizing the public sector.
The prohibition of establishment of new offices, except for specially approved projects, considerably
delayed and suspended the establishment of new branch land offices for two years. The Bank provided two
year extension of the loan closing date to enable the Govenmment to complete the construction of land
offices due to this delay. The Govemment had also reduced the field allowance for adjudication teams. This
reduction could have affected adversely the outputs of the project but fortunately did not affect the
adjudication productivity.
S.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Failure at departmental level to develop policy direction and effective working arrangements between the
concemed departments considerably delayed the demarcation of forest boundaries and led to lower than
planned outputs. The works were further delayed by late budget releases, and late procurement of
equipment and vehicle throughout the implementation period. Similarly, the HRD plan was delayed due to
lack of interest and institutional capacity in DOL. The IS strategy, on the other hand, was delayed mainly
due to inadequate management and direction within the consultant team, as well as lack of experienced IS
expertise in DOL to supervise and review the consultant's works, which led to inadequate coordination
between the consultant team and DOL, and procurement problems for this ambitious plan for
computerization.
-8 -



5.4 Costs and financing*
At appraisal, total project cost over five years was estimated at US$206.89 million. This was to be
financed by US$118.10 million from the Bank loan, US$6.25 million from AusAID grant funds and
US$82.54 million from the Government. The actual project cost is US$130.69 million. Of which,
US$90.47 million was financed by the loan proceeds, US$6.02 million from AusAID, and the
Government's contribution is estimated at US$34.20 million.
Actual project cost in local currency is estimated at Baht 4,380 million, 17 percent lower than Baht5,276
million estimated at appraisal. Substantial cost savings occurred in aerial photography, survey and
adjudication, IS consultancy and valuation development. Additional savings from financing the
construction of 11 branch land offices came from the Government's recent policy to prepay all the external
loans by canceling additional US$2.16 million.
5.5 Schedule Changes
The project was appraised in February 1994 and became effective in December 1994. The Mid Term
Review took place in August 1997. The original project completion of September 30, 1999, was extended
by two years to September 30, 2001, and the loan closing date of September 30, 2000, was extended by
two years to September 30, 2002. The Bank loan of US$118.1 mnillion was reduced to US$92.63 million
when US$25.47 million was cancelled on September 27, 2000. Further cancellation of US$2.16 million
was made on September 6, 2002 upon government request. Assistance of AusAID was terminated on
March 31, 2000, except for the IS Advisor who served between August 21 to November 21, 2000.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is likely. Project benefits have been sustained through a well functioning land
registration system and an efficient service delivery of DOL Offices. Sustainability is further enhanced by:
(i) the Fourth Land Titling Project (LTP IV) to complete-the 20-Year Land Titling Program. LTP IV is
estimated to cost about US$70 million and is currently funded by the government budget to complete the
remaining untitled lands of about 635,000 parcels in the country; (ii) strong technical capacity in land
administration, which was successfully built under the land titling projects; and (iii) deployment of 900
adjudication staff to provincial and branch land offices; and (iv) implementation of DOL strategy, including
HRD plan and IS master plans which in the next five years will further help strengthening DOL long term
capacity in land administration. Because DOL's annual budget is less than 14 percent of the revenues it
collects for the Treasury, it is expected that the Government would continue to finance the ongoing
activities of land titling and administration.
However, a couple of emerging issues will have to be addressed by DOL to retain its dynamism. The first
one is the sustainability of some project activities that are at risk and currently threatened by lack of
adequate budget allocation. These activities are automated land registry, LIS, document microfilming and
imaging, mapping and training. DOL would have to re-allocate its resources to continue the above
activities so that it can continue to improve its productivity. The second issue is the plan for the
redeployment and/or demobilization of staff at the end of the 20-year Land Titling Program, when
systematic adjudication activities stop.
-9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted above, the completion of the 20-year Land Titling Program has been funded by the Government
under LTP IV, while the land administration and service delivery have been sustained through DOL annual
regular budget provisions. In addition, CVA under MOF, is expected to be further strengthened under the
proposed autonomous national valuation agency. However, as mentioned above, DOL would have to either
re-allocate its regular budget provisions or the Government would have to provide additional budget to
support the automated land registry, LIS, document imaging and management, mapping and training.
Transition arrangements to regular operation should also include a strategy for the redeployment and/or
demobilization of staff previously involved in systematic adjudication activities. It is encouraging that DOL
is increasingly becoming a regional leader lending its expertise for land titling projects in neighboring
countries.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The World Bank missions were
practical in developing relevant project objectives, and workable and realistic project components. In
addition, several innovative approaches were initiated, including demarcation of forest boundaries,
formulation and implementation of HRD, IS and CVA strategic plans. The Bank's seven-member
preparation missions covered the key skills required by the project. However, there were deficiencies in the
design of IS and CVA development strategies, and both the Government and Bank task team share the
responsibility.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. Throughout the implementation period, the Bank supervision
missions were instrumental in accelerating, resolving issues and restructuring project implementation, as
needed. The main thrust of the effort was to achieve the outputs particularly when the country faced an
economic downturn. It is also commendable that when the valuation development component failed to
take-off, the supervision team was able to revise the program and contain expenditures. Other notable
assistance included: (i) helping DOL to hire consultants to prepare DOL strategy, HRD plan, and study
the means of transfonnation of CVA into PO; (ii) helping CVA to use the computer-assisted program and
market-based valuation methods; (iii) providing support to DOL to organize a National Valuation Policy
workshop in Thailand, aimed at building consensus on future CVA functions; (iv) supporting the piloting
and introduction of Total Station and GPS technology for production and registration of new land titles and
organizational restructuring of DOL and CVA; (v) providing technical advice on formulation of IS
strategy. Towards the end of implementation, the Bank was flexible in extending the loan closing date for
two years to enable DOL to complete the construction of land office buildings.
-10-



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above assessments, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. DOL has provided competent and
experienced staff in all aspects of the project to prepare the project, and participate in project appraisal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower was highly committed to completing the 20-year Land Titling Program. However, following
the economic downturn in 1997, it was difficult for the Borrower to provide the agreed 574 new staff to the
CVA, and the original property valuation expansion plan could not be implemented. An absence of
property legislation was another impediment to implementation indicating a lack of political support for
expanding the role of the CVA.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
DOL fully participated in and contributed to project preparation and appraisal. Because of DOL's long
experience in land titling and improved service delivery, this proved to be very valuable. However, DOL
equally share the responsibility for the over-ambitious design of the IS strategy, mainly due to its lack of
in-house expertise. In addition, because valuation is not a core function of DOL, it gave less priority to this
activity which contributed to the failure in implementing the property valuation expansion plan.
DOL was able to resolve several issues that could have impeded project implementation. It maintained
adjudication productivity despite substantial reduction of field allowance nation-wide, obtained Cabinet
approval to complete and even exceed the targets of establishment of branch land offices, re-engineered
operations of land offices, and restructured its organizational structure streamlining functions at
headquarters.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Based on the above assessments, overall performance of the Borrower and implementing agency is rated
satisfactory.
7.8 Co-financier Performance:
AusAID co-financed the project with grant funds for technical assistance, together with overseas education
and training. Effective technical assistance was provided through a consulting firmn and included advisers
for a total of 333 man-months and overseas training of 174.6 man-months.
AusAID parficipated actively in appraisal and review missions and was supportive of DOL through the
economic downturn in 1997. Extensive valuable and productive overseas education, training and study
tours were organized. Administrative support was provided throughout the project and individual
consultants provided valuable assistance in their various areas of expertise.
- 1 1 -



In retrospect, it is possible to identify some areas where better outcomes could have been achieved through
earlier recognition of changing circumstances. The Technical Advisors provided under AusAID support
have contributed significantly to the project. However, it is uncertain to what extent the Technical
Advisors, especially the property valuation advisors, the human resources advisor, and the information
system advisor, could have contributed to achieving a better outcome in their areas. The property valuation
component of the project undoubtedly suffered more from the economic downturn of 1997 than did other
project components. More might have been achieved with CVA had the need to revise expectations on
availability of incremental staff and to set a less ambitious target been recognized earlier following the
economic downturn and consequent changes sought in government support for development of CVA. In
addition, although a great deal of work was done on human resource development through various activities
over the project period, the approach of the strategic plan proved difficult to implement. The proposed
information systems strategy proved to be too ambitious and the resulting consultant contractor was unable
to deliver an IS strategy acceptable to DOL. Advice was provided to DOL on improvements, which could
be made in workflow and document modification for land registration, but a more comprehensive review of
these processes might have yielded even more value.
7.9 Overall Performance of Co-Financier:
Based on the above assessments, the overall performance of co-financier is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learnaed
Major lessons learned from the project are:
(a)    Well designed, prepared and appraised project with focused project objectives and realistic
development plans is a key to successful implementation.  This is evident by the successful
implementation of the land titling and improving service delivery components of the project. Usually,
following up sector work or previous Bank operations, as was the case in this project, targets and
imnplementation plans are better conceived. However, when components involve coordination between
multiple agencies (forest demarcation), new technologies (IS strategy), or changing roles of public
institutions (CVA expansion plan), the difficulty to develop well thought-out plans increase tremendously.
The lessons from these situations are presented in the next three items.
(b)    Activities which  require coordination with other agencies require development of
implementation plans with details of activities of each of the agency for timely and effective
implementation. Demarcation of forest boundaries suffered considerable delays and its achievement was
much lower than the planned targets due to lack of working arrangements and policy direction and
coordination between DOL, LDD and RED. More appropriate approach would be to agree on a formal
coordination arrangements between the entities during appraisal, through an instrument of Memorandum of
Agreement, with detailed implementation activities, clear monitoring indicators, and conflict resolution
mechanisms that are acceptable to the parties.
(c)    Introduction of new technologies, e.g. IS, should be phased and tested at a smaller-scale
before expansion. The over ambitious design of the IS strategy, the lack of in house expertise to supervise
the consultants, and the lack of adequate skills of the government acceptance committee to review and
guide the consultants, all contributed to the unsatisfactory outcome of the sub-component. It would be more
appropriate if a strategy to introduce new technology start with a small-scale study with simple objectives,
such as the development of a data base and automation of land registration, with subsequent testing and
- 12-



expansion to larger scale operations if the results are satisfactory. This phased-in approach be easier to
implement and could be instrumental in gradually building agency (DOL) in-house expertise.
(d)    Property valuation development programs should clearly identify the respective roles of the
public and private sector in valuation, and the most appropriate institution/agency for support to
valuation development. The implementation of the property valuation expansion plan was based on
building a centralized agency to undertake property valuation for the entire country. The implementation of
the plan was hindered by the government freeze on staffing and the lower priority granted by DOL to this
activity. The plan also needed the passage of a property valuation bill, which would have permitted the use
of CVA property values for all government taxation and compensation purposes. The lesson learned is that
seeking such a consensus on CVA's mandate would possibly have been easier to obtain if CVA were
located in the Ministry of Finance, since MOF is responsible for raising tax revenues. Such a
organizational location would have also supported the expansion plan because MOF sees the strengthening
of the CVA as part of the overall effort of improving tax collection. The recent government decision to
relocate CVA to MOF is therefore a step in the right direction.
(e)    A strong commitment of the Borrower/Implementing Agencies is a prerequisite for successful
implementation. The firm and high level political commnitment to the 20-year program ensured the
sustained success in the implementation of the land titling component during the three phases of the
program. The proposed property valuation expansion plan could not be implemented due to lack of
commitment from the Borrower to provide the required incremental staff and lack of the required legislative
support, combined with lower priority of the activity in the implementing agehcy (DOL). A more
appropriate approach is to include in the project design, a back up plan for components which are
contingent on the passage of bill at the legislature.
(f)    Bold initiatives, such as this 20-year program to provide land titles, create spill-over effects
and valuable public-sector competency. The development of a deep financial market in Thailand which
finances mortgages throughout the country has benefited from this program. The deep financial market in
turn has led to the creation of a very dynamic economy. In addition, the expertise gained by DOL through
the various projects in this program has led to a standard of service not always found in the public sector.
DOL expertise now is being used to support land-titling initiatives in Thailand's neighboring countries.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.     Comments on Part I
1.1    The descriptive overview and critical analysis of the Land Titling Project in Part I of this report
illustrates clearly some important aspects concerning institutional development, organizational and
managerial capacities and also some inherent constraints that DOL had encountered in implementing the
LTP III during 1995-2001. The analysis which has been prepared by the World Bank project completion
mission and is based on the accumulative experiences during the course of the project addresses some
fundamental problems that need to be recognized and resolved if the Land Titling Project is to be carried
out at the maximum efficiency and generate the best benefits to the country. As the implementing agency,
we would like to express our view as follows.
- 13 -



1.2    The Bank commented on project design deficiencies on Demarcation of forest boundaries, IS and
property valuation development which responsibility was shared equally among DOL, the Australian
Agency for International Development (AusAID) and the Bank is fair. However, DOL finds that the
failure to pass Property Valuation Bill due to lack of political supports was that, in 1997, the last proposal
of Draft Bill was withdrawn by Ministry of Interior and it takes a long time for DOL to revise the Bill, up
till now it has not been resubmitted to the Cabinet yet. The required increase in number of staff to 574
persons were not provided by CSC not because of the economic downtumn in 1997, instead, CSC through
National Conunittee on Public Sector Human Resource Policy has a manpower policy in downsizing and
restructuring government offices in order to escalate efficiency and effectiveness of government sector even
before the crisis.
1.3    With regard to Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome in paragraph 5.2, DOL
wants to make clear that the delay and suspension of the establishment of new branch land offices was not
due to the control of government in prohibiting the establishment of new offices, the fact is, the delay was
caused by procurement of construction in some provinces, the process was slow in order to search for
decent and reliable contractors. Further, in some provinces the unpredictable climate eg. flood, heavy rain
etc. caused the delay. In paragraph 5.3 DOL agrees with the Bank's comment that I.S. Strategy faced
serious delay not only the delay of procurement problems but also the over ambitious plan for
computerization, inadequate management and direction with the consultant team, inadequate coordination
between the consultant team and DOL too. However, DOL thinks that the lack of experienced I.S. expertise
in DOL to supervise and review the consultant's works is not the case because if DOL has adequate IS
expertise, Intemational IS Consultancy might not be necessary for DOL.
2.    Bank Performance
2.1    The World Bank Missions were contributive to provide close supervision during the project
implementation in order to ensure that problems incurred would be monitored and solved. The formation of
HRD, IS and CVA strategic plans were well supported by the Bank, though there were deficiencies in the
design of IS and CVA development strategies. DOL finds that overall effort for supervision of the World
Bank Mission is satisfactory, particularly, the flexibility to extend loan closing date for two years to enable
DOL to complete the delayed construction of land office buildings.
2.2    The co-financier, The Australian Agency for Intemational Development (AusAID) provided
Technical Advisors to help completing the formulation of strategic plan for HRD, IS and Valuation were
successful, however, the evaluation of TA's performances should be focused on the competencies of HRD
and IS advisors. The former, for his effective contribution to the project, the latter for skill and experiences
in IS supervision on the IS consultant team.
3.   Borrower Performance
3.1    As described in Part I, DOL fully achieved project's development objectives in providing secure
land tenure to eligible landowners and improving land administration service delivery through
decentralization of land registration function, re-engineering the operation of land offices and the
establishment of branch land offices. Although, DOL faced with some delays in construction of land office
buildings, its service deliveries were quick and effective as it was evident that registration could be
completed within one day or less. The development of long term sustainability of DOL institutional
capacity was mainly achieved as a result of technical capacity built and accumulated since earlier stages,
except for IS Strategy and Valuation expansion plan. However, if the IS strategic. 5 year plan will be
implemented with full support from the govemment funds together with DOL's personnel relentless
- 14 -



contribution will help strengthening DOL's capacity in this respect. The expansion of Valuation Agency,
which is currently under the Treasury Department, Ministry of Finance in accordance with the government
reform Act, will make a clear progress as the government realized the significance of benefits resulted from
upgrading CVA to be an autonomous agency dealing with valuation of all type of properties for various
purposes.
3.2   The overall outputs of the project were highly satisfactory, particularly, the issuance of land titles
and service delivery which exceeded the set targets. Institutional Development was successful for in-house
training of DOL's personnel and property valuation courses at Thammasat University to produce post
graduate program in valuation discipline at different levels for both government and private sectors,
though, IS Strategy and Valuation expansion plan were delayed.
3.3   From the socioeconomic and environmental impact assessment, in general, DOL is satisfied with
the result that LTP III provided benefit of secure land tenure to eligible land owners, easier access to
formal credit sources, increasing land value, better farm productivity.  As a result, poverty reduction
could be realized and it also helped lessen land disputes. Consequently, the economic of the country which
was affected by 1997 economic downturn, was not worsen.
3.4   DOL is positive that overall sustainability of land titling, administration and institutional capacity
in IS strategy and human resource development will be well sustained in long run.
4.     Lessons Learned
* Evaluation and Monitoring Committee should be set up chaired by Deputy Director General in charge
of Land Titling Project Office (LTPO) to oversight the project implementation monthly and reports
progress of all activities under the project to PAC, PEC respectively. To do so it could solve the
serious delayed activities effective and timely.
* Budget allocation should be prioritized to key activities properly, especially, the agencies involve in
demarcation of forest boundaries should be supported with adequate budget in proportion to their
planned targets annually.
* The strong commitment should be remained, though, the Management of Project Administration
changes so often during phased project period.
(b) Cofinanciers:
AusAID has declined to provide comments.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
-15 -



10. Additionall Information
The govemrnment organized an intemational conference in Bangkok from Feb 19-21, 2003 to discuss the
experience, impact and lessons of the 20 year land titling program. The conference was cosponsored by the
Bank, FAO and AusAID. More than 200 people from more than 30 countries attended the conference.
As part of the preparation of this ICR, the task team also organized a brown bag lunch in January to
discuss the main elements of this ICR and identify the main lessons leamed from this program. Feedback
from this discussion is reflected in the ICR.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Activities                                    Unit         SAR Estimates            Actual          Actual as %   of
Estimates
Land Titling: a/
Ground Survey                                  Parcels            1,884,000               2,035,512               108%
Adjudication-using airphoto                    Parcels              556,800                 997,217               179%
NS3K Conversion                                Parcels              960,000                1,739,326              181%
Total                                                             3,400,800               4,772,055                140%
NS4 Transformation                             Parcels            1,671,600                 3,350,341             200%
Mapping: a/
Aenal Photography                              sq. km                94,780        -        118,261                 1 25%
Map Production-Rural Areas                    Map-sheets             26,500                  38,484                 145s
Map Production-Urban Areas                    Map-sheets              4,230                  21,663               512%
Forest Boundary: a/ b/
Permanent Forests Delineation                 Map-sheets             17,505                    11,014                63'
Permanent Forests Demarcation                    Km                   2,837                     1,00               36%
Reserve Forests Delineation                      Km                   8,000                  12,760                 160s
Reserve Forests Demarcation                      Km                   8,190                   7,495                  92%
Improved Service Delivery: c,
Branch Land Offices                              No                      65                      90                 138/
BLO Staff d/                                    No                     564                     564                100%
Document Microffiming & Imaging: a/
HQ-microfilmmg                                 Copies              8,750,000               13,145,493               1500/
HQ-imagmg                                      Copies               240,000                 275,742                 115/
20 Provinces                                   Copies             3,500,000                3,687,072                105
Total                                                             12,490,000              17,108,307               137%
Re-engineering a/
Manual System                                land office                300                     296                99%
Semi-Automation                              land office                  4                       4                100%
Pilot Automation                              land office                46                      46                 1000/
LIS                                           land office                 5                       5                100%
Institutional Strengthening: c/
Adjudication centres                             No                      36                       36               100%
Adjudication Staff el                            No                     690                     690                100%
Local Training                                 No. staff              7,140                  14,925                209%
HRD Plan                                         No                       1                       1                100%
IS Strategy                                      No                       I                       I                100%
Valuation c/
Valuation Rolls                                Parcels             3,653,000                2,346,807                64%
Valuation staff                                  No                     574                       89                16%
CVA HQ Building                                  No                       I                         I              100%
CVA Regional office buildings                    No                       6                        0                 0%
Valuation Courses: c/
Post Graduate Diploma                          Persons                                        353 f/
Bachelor Degree g/                             Persons                                            4
Master Degree g/                               Persons                                           50
Technical Assistance a/                                     _
Technical Advisor                               Mm                    290 0                      33                 1150/
Overseas Training                              Mm                   186 5                    174 6                94%
a/ As of September 30, 2001
b/ Estimated by LDD, RFD and DOL
c/ As of September 30, 2002
d) Including 164 incremental staff and 400 staff deployed from land offices
e/ Including 190 incremental staff and 500 staff deployed from land offices
f/ Including estimated 69 students in year 2002.
g/ On-going (Program started in 2001)
- 1 7 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
JAppraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
-- -'~- -1Component  .$ million--n.  US$ million
Issuance of Land Titling                          118.90          92.02           77.4
Improving Land Administration Service Delivery     17.10          13.11           76.7
Strengthening DOL/Institutional Building 1/        17.50          14.08           80.5
Valuation Development                              15.10           4.96           32.8
Technical Assistance and Training                   6.30           6.02           95.4
Studies                                             0.50           0.50            100
Total Baseline Cost                               175.40         130.69
Physical ContingencIes                            31.44
Total Project Costs           206.84                   _____
Total Financing Required            206.84         130.69
1/ Including IS consultant and socio-economic studies.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
KExpondttiure Ctegory. C            P    emn --    -    rlB.F.             Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         16.50        0.00         0.00         16.50
(0.00)       (14.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (14.00)
2. Goods                     16.80        19.60        2.00          0.00        38.40
_   (13.00)      (12.70)      (1.30)        (0.00)      (27.00)
3. Services                  9.50         0.00         0.00          0.00        9.50
(9.50)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (9.50)
4. Consultancies             0.00         0.00          7.00         8.90        15.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.70)        (0.00)      (6.70)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         100.80       25.70       126.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (60.90)      (0.00)       (60.90)
6.                                                                               0.00
O____ ____ ____ __   00    0            0          (0.00)
Total                     26.30        36.10        109.80        34.60       206.80
(22.50)      (26.70)       (68.90)      (0.00)      (118.10)
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                                              Total Cost
_"_'   ^,,,!," 5' 1ICB            NC            Other'        N.B.F.
1. Works                                       10.70                                     10.70
0            (8.80)          0             0           (8.80)
2. Goods                        13.80          18.20         1.20           0.00         33.20
(10.10)        (13.30)       (0.90)         (0.00)       (24.30)
3. Services                     7.70                                                     7.70
(7.70)           0             0             0           (7.70)
4. Consultancies                                             3.60           4.20         7.80
0              0           (3.50)          0           (3.50)
5. Miscellaneous                                             71.29                       71.29
0              0           (46.17)         0           (46.17)
6.                                                                                       0.00
o              o             0             0           (0.00)
Total                        21.50          28.90         76.09          4.20         130.69
(17.80)        (22.10)       (50.57)        (0.00)       (90.47)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.________                             | -  I . ~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate     .    Actual/Latest' Estimate.  |     -
Bank      GovL      CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    -Bank   GOL    CoF.
Issuance of Land Tiling  64.80     54.10               63.61     28.41              98.2   52.5
Improving Land Admin.    12.80     4.30                11.15      1.96              87.1   45.6
Service Delivery
Strengthening DOL/       12.30     5.30                11.26      2.82              91.5   53.2
Institutional Building
Valuation Development    9.80      5.30                 3.95      1.01              40.3    19.1
Technical Assistance and                     6.30                           6.02                   95.6
Training
Studies                  0.50      0.10                0.50       0.00              100.0   0.0
Total                   118.10     82.40     6.30      90.47     34.20      6.02    76.6   41.5    95.6
The Bank loan was reduced to US$92.6 million by canceling US$25.47 million on September 27, 2000 and
US$2.16 million on September 6, 2002.
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 3a: Economic Costs and Benefits
Year                       Parcels (000)       Area (000 rai)
Ground Survey              2,036               5,046
Ground Survey Using
Airphoto                   997                  8,357
NS3K Conversion             1,739                15,140
Total                      4,772                28,543
Number of Landowners        1,110,000
Net Incremental Yields      24.7 percent
NPV (Baht million)          8,759
Costs (Baht million)       5,410
Benefits (Baht million)     14,169
Project Life (years)       25
ERR                        35.6 percent
Assuming 4.3 parcels per household.
A net increase of 24.7 percent (an increase of 6.6 percent in project area and a decrease of 18.1 percent in non-project area)
Annex 3b: Cost of Title Production
(Baht 000)
Year                                    LTP I'        LTP II'       LTP III
Base Cadastral Mapping                  387,551       551,949       963,950
Survey and Adjudication                  21,157        1,026,590     2,132,590
Depreciation of Equipment               26,964         57,480        38,334
Total                                   835,672        1,636,019     3,134,874
Number of Titles                         1,634,146     2,042,397     4,772,055
Cost per Title in Current Prices (Baht)
511           801           657
Cost Per Title in 2000 Constant Pnce (Baht)  751       998           684
US$ 1.0 = Baht 45.0                      17           22            15
Actual costs (LTP 11 ICR, Report No. 16490, April 1997)
Annex 3c:   Revenues from Land Related Taxes
Year                   No. Transactions       Baht Million
(000)                  (current prices)
1984 (Before LTP I)    5,976                  3,777
1992 (end LTP I)       7,146                   19,231
1995 (end LTP II)      7,313                   29,565
1996                   7,010                   32,348
1997                   6,505                   25,171
1998                   4,548                   14,777
1999                   4,063                   15,833
2000                   4,100                   18,997
-20 -



Economic Analysis
At ICR, the ERR of the project, calculated over a period of 25 years, is estimated at 35.6 percent with the
net present value (NPV) of Baht 8,759 million at the opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. The ERR
has been calculated based on the methodology used by the Bank's OED for the Second Land Titling Project
(Performance Audit Report, Thailand: Land Reform Area Project and Second Land Titling Project, OED,
World Bank, May 1998.). In this methodology, although project benefits came from many sources, such as:
(a) improved agricultural land productivity due to improved practices, and on-farm investments from equity
or improved access to medium and long term credit; (b) responsible and sustainable land use and
management; (c) non-fanming activities such as livestock and cottage industries due to increased access to
institutional credit using land tile as collateral; (d) utilisation of labor for other non-farm activities resulting
from increasing use of labor-saving farm mechanisation works; and (e) reduced land transaction costs
through decreased land related disputes and litigation, the ERR is calculated on the basis of agricultural
productivity improvement alone.
LTP III covered parts of all four regions of Thailand: Northeast, North, Centre and South, and there are
great differences in terms of farming systems in each region. For example, while rice production is
predominant in the Northeast, tree crops are more important in the farming system in the South. The
characteristics of the farming system in each region are reflected in the land use pattems. Taking the
project areas as a whole, the dominant crops would be paddy in the Central, Northeast and North and
rubber trees in the South. In order to manage the data at a reasonably representative level, paddy was
chosen as proxies for paddy and field crops and rubber for tree crops. Although the impact surveys were
undertaken in all the regions, the results of the survey in the Noriheast are used to calculate the benefits in
all regions, because natural calamities in the North and South distorted the assessment of project impacts in
those areas. Based on the results of the impact surveys in the Northeast, increases in yields of paddy and
rubber in the "with Project" situation have been taken at 6.6 percent over 10 years, while in the "without
project" situation, decreases in yields of paddy and rubber have been taken at 18.1 percent over the same
period.
Economic crop budgets per rai for paddy and rubber have been prepared and used in the estimation of
benefits. Financial prices of non-traded commnodities and local costs have been converted to border prices
by using a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9. For traded commodities (paddy, rubber, fertilisers),
economic prices have been based on the World Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts, projected to 2005 in
2000 constant value, with adjustments for local handling and transport costs to farm-gate prices. Total
benefits have been estimated by paddy and rubber areas and then phased according to the areas covered by
the different adjudication processes.
On the cost side, some project expenditures, such as those on institutional development, can be expected to
have benefits beyond the project area. These institutional development type expenditures include: (i) aerial
photography for map revision and urban mapping; (ii) support to CVA; (iii) the strengthening of DOL; (iv)
the land information system (LIS) and automated system for land office; (v) information system (IS); and
(vi) the technical assistance (TA) and overseas training. In the analysis, these costs have been adjusted as
follows: (i) 100 percent of the direct land titling costs of photomap production, control points, land surveys
and adjudication, demarcation of forest boundaries and land administration, and only 50 percent of the
indirect costs of the strengthening of DOL have been included in the cost stream; and (ii) other non-related
costs of aerial photography and map revision, IS and LIS pilot projects, supports to CVA and TA for
valuation and IS have been completely excluded.
- 21 -



The following assumptions have been used to construct the aggregated economic benefit and cost streams:
a) no agricultural impact in the area occupied by towns and residential area (assumed as 10 percent of the
total area);
b) only 75 percent of the agricultural area will be affected by the land titling project;
c) area classified as "undocumented land" will benefit fully from the increased productivity and "lesser
titled land" only half the increased productivity: it has been assumed that: (i) areas under ground survey,
covering 50 percent of undocumented land will receive full benefit and the remainder 50 percent of lesser
titled land (NS3K) will receive only 50 percent of the benefits; and (ii) areas under conversion using
airphoto will receive only 50 percent of the benefit; and
d) benefits would be realised gradually one year after the issuance of the land title; and realisation of full
benefits will take 10 years, after which the benefit will remain constant
The following sensitivity analyses have been undertaken:
*      If only 50 percent of agricultural areas under the project would benefit from the productivity
improvement the ERR would reduce to 25.3 percent;
*      If the realization of benefit is delayed by two years instead of the assumed one year,
the ERR would drop to 24.3 percent;
*      If agricultural productivity in with project increases 6.6 percent over 10 years while the
productivity in the without project remains constant (no decrease), ERR would fall to
12.1 percent;
*      If agricultural productivity in with project increases 6.6 percent over 10 years while the
productivity in the without project decreases only 10 percent over 10 years, ERR would
fall to 20.3 percent;
*      If 100 percent of the costs of DOL institutional strengthening are included in the cost stream,
the ERR would reduce to 33.6 percent; and
*      If operating costs of land administration costs increase by 20 percent, ERR would fall
to 34.4 percent.
The results of the sensitivity analysis show that ERR of the project is more sensitive to decreases in
benefits than increases in project costs. However, even under the above assumptions the project is still
economically viable, with the ERR ranging from 12.1 percent to 34.4 percent.
Financial Analysis
From the perspective of Government, the Land Titling Project is financially sound. As data from DOL
shows, the total annual revenue of DOL increased from about US$200 million in 1984 to over US$1,281
million in 1996. Although the revenue declined due to the economic crisis, the revenue collected in 2001
was still over 5 times the total cost -- including the cost of the LTP III.
In this analysis, the Government has been treated as an entity, and the analysis is trying to assess whether
the net financial benefits (fiscal inflow minuses fiscal outflow) expected from the project are attractive
enough for the Government to implement the project
- 22 -



Financial benefits and costs for the Government
The Government received incremental revenues (fiscal inflow) from the following sources:
1.    Initial registration fee at US$2.55 per title;
2.     A fee of 2% of the CVA or official valuation for the property;
3.     A stamp duty of 0.5%, calculated on the basis of the CVA or official valuation
for individuals or the declared sale price in the case of companies;
4.     A special business tax of 3.3% of the CVA or official valuation on property traded
less than 5 years after acquisition, starting in 1999 but reduced to 0.11% from 2000.
The purpose is to discourage land speculation; and
5.     An income from a capital gain tax (or income tax) based on the CVA or official valuation,
and the number of years that the property has been held.
The financial costs (fiscal outflow) to the Government are the all project costs (excluding the grant from
AusAID), the loan interests, and the Government's future management costs, for example, salaries and
other operation costs linked to this part of system established by the project (3% of total project costs).
The reason to include the loan interest costs is that the government will pay the interests on loans that
support the project and hence this is a direct additional cost of the project. Should the interest cots be
excluded, the FRR will be 3 1 %.
Methodology and major assumptions
All calculations are based on the actual costs and benefits associated with the LTP III (1995-2001). The
actual benefits are extrapolated over 35 year period and no further assumptions are made regarding any
expected changes to these current actual benefits. The capital discount factor is 0.1. DOL's data shows
that from 1995 to 2001, the derivative registration (turnover rate) is 4.1% annually, which means that each
property is averagely kept by landholders for about 25 years.
The land transactions in Thailand include sale, mortgage, lien, rental, inheritance, foreclosure, etc.. Due to
the limitation of data and also for the sake of simplicity, we focus only on sale transaction. This is because
the revenue from land sales accounts for averagely 65-70% of total DOL's annual revenue from 1995 to
2001. Should the other types of transactions be included, the FRR would be higher.
Two types of income from land sale transactions have been also excluded from the calculation. First,
income from the special business tax with the purpose of discouraging land speculation is excluded, given
that a) prior to 1999, the DOL did not collect this tax, and b) starting from 2000, the rate declined to
0.11% and revenue was negligible (in year 2001, it only accounts for 3% of total tax revenue). Second,
income from the income tax (or capital gain tax) is excluded due to fact that the amount of capital gain is
more closely related to overall economic development rather than to the land titling itself. The financial
rate of return calculated in this analysis, therefore, can be reasonably viewed as a lower bound of the real
FRR.
- 23 -



Results
The financial rate of return is 27% and the NPV is US$363.4 million (see Table 1). The FRR is relatively
robust to the changes of major parameters. For example, if the turnover rate is 3%, the FRR will be 23%;
if the turnover rate is 5%, the FRR will be 30%.
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Peirsons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, l FMS, etc.)   Implementation -Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty       ,              Progress',   Objective
Lending
07/19/93                     7   Sr. Agriculturist (1);
Environment Specialist
(1);Resettlement Specialist (I);
Irrigation Specialist (1);
Economist (1); Land
Administration Specialist (1);
Land Valuation Specialist (1)
11/29 to 12/10/94           2    Agriculturist (1); Economist (1)
12/93 to 2/94                7   Agronomy (2); Economist (2);
Land Administration; Valuation;
Natural Resource
Supervision
01/31/1995                   5   Sr. Economist (1); Economist       HS           HS
(2); Land Admin. Specialist (1);
Civil Engineer (1)
12/15/1995                   6   Sr. Economist (I); Economist      HS            HS
(2); Land Admin. Specialist (1);
Land Valuation Spec. (1); Civil
Engineer (1)
10/19/1996                   5   Economist (1); Senior Economist    S             S
(1); Land Administration Sp. (1);
Land Valuation Spec. (1); Civil
Engineer (1)
03/20/1998                   6   Pr. Operations Officer (1); Land   S             S
Valuation Spec. (I); Land
Administration Sp (I); Civil
Engineer (1); Economist (1);
Operations Officer (1)
10/22/1998                   4   Civil Engineer (1); Economist,     S             S
FAO/CP (1); Holmes (Land
Administr (1); Operations
Officer (1)
04/13/1999                   4   Civil Engineer (I); FAO/CP          S             S
Consultant (1); Consultant (2)
10/17/1999                   5   Task Team Leader (1);              S             S
Economist (1); Land Admin
Specialist (1);Procurement (2)
04/21/2000                   4   Task Manager (1); Economist         S             S
(1); Land Administration (1);
Property Valuation (1)
10/13/2000                   4   Land Policy & Admin. (1); Civil    S             S
Engineer (I); Economist (I);
-25 -



Information Technology (1)
05/18/2001                          6    Mission Leader (1); Procurement            S                S
Officer (1); Financial Officer (1);
Sr. Economist (1); Land
Admin/Consultant (I); Prop.
Valu./Consultant (1)
11/06/2001                         4    Task Manager (1); Economist                S                 S
(1);Land Administration (1);
Property Valuation (1)
03/29/2002                          2    Team Leader/Economist (1);                 S                S
Property Valuation (1)
10/07/2002                         2     Sr Environmental Engineer (1);
Agricultural Economist (I)
I/ Specialized Staff Skills
A-Agronomy; C-Civil Engieer, E-Economy; F-Finance; L-Lsnd Admimstration; N-Natural resource, I-Information Technology, V-Valuation
2/1 -no significant problems; 2-Moderate problems; S-Satisfactory; U-Unsatisfactory
3/ F-Financial; M-Management; P-Procurement; C-Civil Works Construction
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle,                            Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
Lending                                                                               116
Supervision                                                                           563
Total                                                                                 679
-26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Sector Policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Physical                             OH   OSUOM     ON    O NA
>3Financial                           OH   OSUOM ON        O NA
2 Institutional Development           0 H * SU O M 0 N     0 NA
Environmental                        O H OSUOM       ON   * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction             OH   * SUOM     O N  O NA
ZGender                         OH OSUOM O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       ON   * NA
E Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management            0 H  0 SU O M   0 N 0 NA
M Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       ON   * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       OLU    OHU
X Overall                                          OHS Os       O  U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
X Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
f Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     O U    0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Bank Documents
I.     Staff Appraisal Report Thailand Land Titling III Project April 30, 1994
2.     Loan Agreement Thailand Land Titling III Project September 27, 1994
3.     Memorandum & Recommendation of the President Thailand Land Titling III Project
August 30, 1994
Supervision Reports:
1.     First Supervision Report - Start Up (January 1995)
2.     Second Supervision Mission December 1995
3.     Third Supervision Mission October 1996
4.     Fourth Supervision Mission March 1998
5.     Fifth Supervision Mission October 1998
6.     Sixth Supervision Mission April 1999
7.     Seventh Supervision Mission October 1999
8.     Eighth Supervision Mission April 2000
9.     Ninth Supervision Mission October 2000
10.    Tenth Supervision Mission May 2001
11.    Eleventh Supervision/ICR Mission November 2001
12.    Twelfth Supervision/ICR Mission March 2002
13.    Final Supervision Mission October 2002
B.     ReRorts
1.     Socio Economic and Environmental Impact Assessment Report
- 29 -



