Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4052 
 
Project Name 
Somalia Rapid Response Rehabilitation of Rural Livelihood 
Project (RRRRL) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General agriculture, livestock, food (100%)  
 
Theme 
Global food crisis response (P) 
 
Project ID 
P113218 
Borrower(s)/ Grantee 
FAO 
Implementing Agency 
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X] B   [] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 1, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 1, 2008 
1. 
Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Country Context 
 
Since 1991 Somalia has not functioned as a unitary state.  The state has effectively fragmented 
into three distinct regional blocks, loosely reflecting the territorial distribution of the major clans, 
which remain the dominant force in the country’s social, political and economic affairs. The 
country remains one of the poorest countries in the world.  On an income measure of poverty 43 
percent of the population is extremely poor (less than $1 per day).  The incidence of general 
poverty (less than US$2 per day) is 73 percent, 61 percent urban and 80 percent rural.  The 
poverty gap which indicates the depth of poverty stands at 18.3 percent.   
 
In 1991, agriculture production was 64 percent of total GDP. About half of this was generated by 
the livestock sub-sector. Crop and fruits account for some 37 percent from crops and fruit. 
Livestock remains the most important productive sector of Somalia. Despite continuing livestock 
bans, approximately 2 million animals are exported each year, creating about 60 percent of 
Somalia’s job opportunities, generating about 40 percent of Somalia’s GDP and 80 percent of its 
foreign currency earnings. Taxation of livestock trade and export is one of the major revenue 
sources for the local administration in North Eastern (Puntland) and North Western Somalia 
(Somaliland).   
 
In 2005, a process was initiated to prepare post conflict joint needs assessment (JNA) for 
Somalia that would identify key development areas and financial needs for a 5 year period.  This 
process resulted in the preparation of a Reconstruction and Development Program (RDP) for 
Somalia (2006).  The RDP recognizes the different stages of development in the country and has 
separate regional assessments that have been validated through a consultative process. The RDP 
Page  2
is the agreed framework for support to Somalia for the next five years and it is built on three 
pillars: 
·
Deepening peace, improving security and establishing good-governance;  
·
Strengthening essential basic services and social protection; and 
·
Creating an enabling environment for private sector-led growth to expand employment 
and reduce poverty. 
 
The second and third pillars are of immediate relevance to this GRFP/TF project.  
 
Rationale for the Proposed Bank GFRP/TF Project 
The current crisis situation in Somalia can be characterized by: (i) high food prices and 
dependence of Somalia on food imports; (ii)
 Remittances, central to Somalia’s economy and the 
survival of its households, are likely to decrease; and (iii) Deterioration of irrigation, flood 
control infrastructure and agricultural services.  The World Bank’s support at this time is 
critically important, given the crisis faced in Somalia as an already desperate livelihood situation 
for the majority of the population is exacerbated by rising food prices. Importantly, the project 
addresses the immediacy of the situation by: (i) responding to the urgent need for financial 
assistance arising from the impact of the current food crisis identified by authorities in Somalia 
and by the international community; and (ii) putting in place inputs and infrastructure for the 
short run that will serve to improve food production.  
 
Project Development Objective (PDO) 
The project development objective is to increase crop and livestock production in areas affected 
by the food crises
.
Project Components  
 
Component I: Improving Food Production Capacity  
A
key feature of the project proposal to address the food crises is the inclusion of a sub-
component to support resumption of agricultural production and increased household food 
security by removing the main production constraints. The project will support provision of 
seeds of maize and sorghum which have proved to be highly productive in similar environmental 
conditions. The component will rely greatly on established distribution networks consisting of 
both local and international NGO partners at regional and district levels. The project will also 
support rehabilitation irrigation infrastructure. 
 
Component II: Support Strategies for Using Livestock Resources to Address the Current 
Food Crisis  
 
The current food crises are exasperated by constraints in production amongst others, animal 
health, and marketing, which are compounded by animal diseases and repeated trade bans by 
major trading partners. About 
55%
of Somalis are directly engaged in livestock production and 
provides 55% of calorie intake at household level. Milk production is critical to subsistence 
Page  3
consumption and 33 % of offtake is consumed by producers. The current food crisis in Somalia 
can be addressed through availing more animal protein (and thus address malnutrition and 
enhance food security) and increasing availability (and thus increasing the ability of affected 
communities to access food).  
 
5.  Financing 
 
Source 
 
 
     ($m.) 
 
Borrower 0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
7.00
7.00 
 
6.  Project Implementation Arrangements 
The proposed project will not create new implementing units at the country level. The FAO 
Emergency Operations unit for Somalia based in Nairobi will manage the grant and implement 
and monitor the project through partnership with international and local NGOs (and if necessary 
with new partners) with a strong operational presence in project areas.   
 
7.  Safeguard Policies 
The only likely safeguard policy trigger could result from the possible environmental sound use 
of pesticides for the control of pests and diseases.  
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
8.  Contact Point 
Contact:  Berhane Manna:  Senior Agriculturist, AFTAR 
Tel: 202-458-9566 
e-mail: 
bmanna@worldbank.org
Location: Washington Office (IBRD)
 
Page  4
