Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/08/2008 
Report No.:  AC3802
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Somalia 
Project ID:  P113218 
Project Name:  Rapid Response Rehab of Rural Livel Proj 
Task Team Leader:  Berhane Manna 
Estimated Appraisal Date: July 31, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: September 5, 2008 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
7.00
7.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is to address the food crisis in Somalia by removing 
the production constraints and improve food security, rural incomes, and community 
assets.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project has three interrelated components which build on ongoing projects (FAO, 
UNDP, UNHCR and others) in Somalia to assist in addressing the crisis. Implementation 
of these components is dependent on improved security in South Central Somalia and 
signed peace agreement among the different factions. The components cover the major 
productive areas: (i) crops (component one); and (ii) livestock (component two). Both of 
these components pay attention to mainstreaming nutrition and gender concerns in the 
interventions. In addition, the project stresses community and local institution 
strengthening (component three), aimed at effective implementation of the project. The 
project is being implemented in administrative locations where the need is greatest (the 
Shabelle valley in South/Central Somalia, Somaliland and Puntland).  
 
Component I: Improving Agricultural and Food Production Capacity  
Page  2
Sub-component 1.1: Increased food availability through decreased post harvest losses 
by introduction of improved storage systems  
 
Post-harvest and storage grain losses are estimated at 20-30 percent of the total 
production. These losses are mainly due to lack of proper handling of the crop soon after 
harvest and the use of the traditional storage structures. Experience has shown that grain 
stored in metal drums, particularly in humid and flood prone areas where ground pits are 
at risk, can last up to 5 years without affecting its quality and therefore add considerable 
value in terms of both incomes and food availability.  
 
The specific activities under this sub-component are to:  
 
train and support artisans on/for metal silos production 
–
work with established 
blacksmiths/metalworkers to assist their production.  
 
facilitate production of metal silos of different sizes and promote awareness/market 
demand and production response for use of the storage technology.  
 
train farmers on proper installation and use of the new technology, mainly through on 
farm demonstrations and farm visits.  
 
train of farmers and community households on post harvest techniques – especially 
drying grain at optimum moisture.  
 
Sub-component 1.2: Increased food production system productivity through distribution 
of improved inputs  
 
The key feature of the project proposal is the inclusion of a sub-component to support 
resumption of agricultural production and increased household food security by removing 
the main production constraints. The project will support provision of seeds of maize and 
sorghum which have proved to be highly productive in similar environmental conditions. 
Seeds will be procured from the local market and distributed through existing NGOs or 
NGO-initiated community organizations. Complementary inputs such as 
tools/implements and fertilizer (mainly urea) will also be made available.  
 
This sub-component will be concentrated in the South/Central areas of Somalia and the 
specific activities under this sub-component are:  
 
Distribution of technology packages (seeds, fertilizer and farm implements) to farmers 
in Shebelle valley (maize) and in the Sorghum belt (sorghum).  
 
Training of farmers, mainly women growing food crops, in improved agronomic and 
nutritional practices. This will include training in using the new technology, including 
seed quality management, and nutritional utilization of the increased food grains and 
livestock products.  
 
Evaluation of use and impact of technology packages. This will include post distribution 
review evaluation exercises carried out to inform/improve future assistance.  
 
Sub-component 1.3: Increased food production through rehabilitation and improvement 
of crop production infrastructure  
 
Page  3
The long absence of stability and consequent lack of institutions has led to the collapse 
of basic infrastructure serving the agricultural sector in the most productive areas of 
Somalia. The project will support rehabilitation of canals; river embankments; sluice 
gates; water catchments; and feeder roads. This sub-component will be concentrated in 
the South/Central areas of Somalia and the specific activities under this sub-component 
are:  
 
Appraisal of infrastructure needs. This includes the assessment of crop irrigation needs 
and capacities of rivers and canals by evaluating the demand/use of water.  
 
Carrying out of profile surveys for all canals, embankment and roads that need to be 
rehabilitated and establish the required excavation cut and fill.  
 
Implementation through a combination of private sector contracts, labor sourced from 
the community (with explicit commitment to employment of women), project 
management and local administration collaboration.  
 
Component II: Enhancement of Food Security and Incomes of Pastoral Livestock 
Producers and Livestock Service Providers  
 
Sub-component 2.1: Improved livestock production through more effective and efficient 
feeding systems  
 
Food is a scarce resource in most parts of Somalia almost every year. In some locations 
where feed is occasionally adequate in quantity it is almost always deficient in quality, 
mainly low levels of protein and energy. This situation seriously limits livestock growth 
and production. In the drier pastoral areas, the quality and amount (quantity) of forage 
available is almost always insufficient for the number of animals attempting to feed off it. 
In the mixed farming areas along dry river beds and flood plains natural pastures are 
being taken over for subsistence cropping and production of fodder. In the mixed 
production systems, crop residues and by-products are important in the livestock diet but 
are usually low in nutrients and often wasted or used inefficiently due to inadequate 
knowledge and the capacity to process and conserve them as livestock feed.  
 
This sub-component will increase feed and fodder availability, promote more efficient 
livestock feeding systems and increase producer incomes. It will be implemented in 
Somaliland and Puntland. The specific activities under this sub-component are:  
 
Support the development of seed and planting materials at selected sites for improved 
feed production activities.  
 
Promote improved feed production systems through provision of farms/areas selected 
for fodder production with (i) seeds of selected perennial grasses; (ii) farm equipment and 
tools; and (iii) assistance to prepare the land for fodder production, including water 
storage and irrigation.  
 
Train farmers in fodder production and preparation of silage. Where necessary this 
training will be adapted, for example, pastoralists will be trained in appropriate range 
rehabilitation techniques.  
 
Sub-component 2.2: Protecting livestock herd and increased meat production through 
improved livestock disease management systems  
Page  4
Livestock production is greatly constrained by Transboundary Animal Diseases (TADs). 
On the other hand, demand for quality livestock products, both in national and 
international trade, is increasing rapidly. This sub-component is directed at assisting in 
this area. It will be implemented mainly in Central/South and Puntland and the specific 
activities under this sub-component are:  
 
Improvement through training and technical assistance to monitor, evaluate risk and 
report on livestock diseases.  
 
Support to implementation of emergency preparedness for livestock diseases of trade 
concern.  
 
Sub-component 2.3: Increased food quality, safety and use through rehabilitation and 
construction of low cost slaughter houses/processing units  
 
In Somalia, meat and meat products, slaughterhouses and related infrastructure, 
including butcheries, meat transport and delivery practices, and retail businesses (meat 
markets), are undeveloped and the associated human health risks is enormous. This calls 
for an integrated income generation and food safety, quality, and use of approaches that 
address domestic livestock and meat marketing chains. This sub-component will be 
implemented in Somaliland and Puntland and the specific activities under this sub-
component are:   
 
Rehabilitation/construction of local slaughter house/meat processing facilities. This will 
include upgrading of the physical structure to ensure that local slaughter facilities and 
meat markets attain minimum standards  
 
Training of slaughter house/meat processing operators and workers (mainly women) in 
more efficient and hygienic slaughtering and meat handling methods. This will include 
identifying and maximizing of quality cuts, protecting products through clean and 
sanitary methods, and minimizing damage to by- products.  
 
Promotion of by-product use for improved nutrition and increased incomes. Including 
both consumption of what might be considered inferior products and use of waste for 
agricultural (manure).  
 
Making provisions for safe waste disposal at slaughter house/meat processing facilities.  
 
Component III: Increased capacity and performance of community- based organizations, 
local NGOs, and community groups  
 
One of the major results of the conflict in Somalia over the past two decades has been 
the collapse of community and civic based institutions. Thus, there is a great need to 
establish a critical pool of capable stakeholders, including beneficiaries that will 
contribute the roles required to facilitate immediate efforts at rehabilitation.  
 
This component will complement and further support a number of ongoing projects and 
will be implemented in all three regions of Somalia. More specifically, it will focus on 
food-crises related activities by providing skill training in basic production systems, 
including markets and income earning opportunities to enhance income.   
 
Page  5
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project location will be in the Shabelle valley in south-central Somalia, Somaliland 
and Puntland.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTEN) 
Mr Ronald P. Isaacson (AFTCS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
While the project's potential adverse environmental impacts will not be significant or 
irreversible, attention will need to be paid to the (i) safe management of pesticides and 
veterinary drugs; and (ii) efficient use of rehabilitated water and transportation 
infrastructure; and (iii) safe waste disposal at the slaughter house/meat processing 
facilities.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to future project activities are not 
anticipated.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
In light of Somalia's food crisis, alternatives to the proposed project were not discussed.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To ensure environmentally and socially sustainable implementation of the planned 
investments, the Borrower, with assistance from the Food and Agriculture Organization 
(FAO) is preparing (i) an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) 
Page  6
which outlines the environmental and social screening process for future investments; 
and (ii) a Pest Management Plan (PMP) to ensure safe management of pesticides and 
veterinary drugs. These documents will take into account experience to-date on the 
ground. The ESMF - with the PMP as an attachment - will be disclosed in Somalia and at 
the Bank's Infoshop by September 5, 2008.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders include representatives from NGOs, local government 
organizations, and FAO as well as project beneficiaries. The ESMF includes a 
consultation requirement for relevant stakeholders and potentially affected persons; the 
results of these consultations are to be accessible to the public.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/30/2008 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/30/2008 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/15/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/30/2008 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/30/2008 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Page  7
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
No 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
N/A 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
Yes 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
Page  8
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Berhane Manna 
08/07/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
08/07/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Ronald P. Isaacson 
08/07/2008 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
08/07/2008 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Francois G. Le Gall 
08/07/2008 
Comments:   
