                                           Documentof
                                         TheWorldBank


                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                      ReportNo. 4492940




                     FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSETRUST FUND

                              EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER

                                  ONA PROPOSEDGRANT

            UNDERTHE GLOBAL FOOD CRISISRESPONSEPROGRAM


                          INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$7.0MILLION

                                         TO SOMALIA

                                      FORA PROPOSED

RAPIDRESPONSEREHABILITATION OF RURALLIVELIHOODSPROJECT


                                         August 25,2008




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
AgricultureandRuralDevelopmentUnit
CountryDepartment
Africa Region


This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly intheperformanceof
their officialduties.Its contents may nototherwisebedisclosedwithout WorldBankauthorization.

                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange RateEffective September 1,2008)
                 Currency Unit = Somali Shillings
                   US$l          -      Shilling1,402
                   SDR           -      US$1.57
                   US$           -      SDR0.64

                         FISCAL,YEAR
                      July 1   -     June30


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAP        ConsolidatedAppeal Program
CBOs       Community-Based Organizations
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR       Country ProcurementAssessment Review
DA         DesignatedAccount
EC         European Community
ERL        EmergencyRecovery Loan
EU         EuropeanUnion
FA0        Foodand Agriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
FMFA       FinancialManagement Framework Agreement
FPRC TF    Food Price Crisis ResponseTrust Fund
FSAU       Food Security Analysis Unit
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GFRP       Global FoodCrisis ResponseProgram
HACCP      HazardAnalysis and Critical ControlPoints
IA         Internal Audit
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ICU        Islamic Court Union
IFRs       InterimFinancial Reports
I S N      InterimStrategyNote
JNA        Joint Needs Assessment
MIS        Management InformationSystem
M&E        Monitoring andEvaluation
M o U      Memorandum ofUnderstanding
NCB        NationalCompetitive Bidding
NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
NTGS       NationalTransitional Government of Somalia
PAC        Project Advisory Committee
PDO        Project Development Objective
RDP        Reconstruction andDevelopment Program for Somalia
PMP        PestManagement Plan
ROB        Regional Operations Branch ofFA0
RRRRLP     RapidResponseRehabilitation o fRural Livelihoods Project

                                 ii

                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


        SOEs                   Statement of Expenditures
        SWALIM                 Somalia Water andLandInformation Management
        TA                     Technical Assistance
        TAD                    Transboundary Animal Disease
        TCOM                   FieldProgramMonitoringand Coordination Services ofFA0
        TF                     Trust Fund
        TOR                    Terms o fReference
        TFG                    Transitional Federal Government
        TFS                    Trust Fundfor Somalia
        TNG                    TransitionalNational Government
        UN                     UnitedNations
        UNTP                   UnitedNationTransitional Plan




        Vice President:                                Obiageli KatrynEzekwesili
        Acting Country Director:                       C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
        Country Manager:                               James Christopher Lovelace
        Sector Manager:                                Karen Mcconnell Brooks
        Task Team Leader:                              Berhane Manna




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                    iii


                                                        Table of Contents

A.  INTRODUCTION         ......................................................................................................................................           3

B.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT OF THE RRRRLP                                       ........................................................................................        4

C.  THE CHALLENGEOF THE CRISIS: COUNTRY CONTEXT. RECOVERY STRATEGY. AND
RATIONALE FOR THE PROPOSEDGFRP TF                                    ............................................................................................         4

  C-1   COUNTRYCONTEXT                ..........................................................................................................................          4

  C-2   SOMALIA    RECOVERY            STRATEGY           ......................................................................................................          5
  c-3   RATIONALE FORTHE PROPOSEDBANKFPCRTF PROJECT                                                       ...........................................................     5

D.  BANK RESPONSE: THE PROJECT                             .....................................................................................................          6

  D-1   BRIEF DESCRIPTIONOFTHE BANK'S STRATEGYOF EMERGENCYSUPPORT                                                                   ....................................  6

  D-2   PROJECT   DEVELOPMENT                 OBJECTIVE           ...............................................................................................         6

  D-3   EXPECTEDOUTCOMES                  ....................................................................................................................           12

E.  APPRAISAL OF PROJECTACTIVITIES                                   ..........................................................................................          12

  E-1   ECONOMIC      .......................................................................................................................................            12

  E-2   TECHNICAL      ......................................................................................................................................            12

  E-3   SOCIAL   .............................................................................................................................................           13

  E-4   FIDUCIARY     .......................................................................................................................................            13

  E-5   ENVIRONMENTAL           .............................................................................................................................            13

F IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS AND FINANCINGPLAN
.                                                                                                                 ..................................................     15

G.  PROJECT RISKSAND MITIGATINGFACTORS                                               ............................................................................        15

H.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PROJECTFINANCING                                                       ...............................................................       17

    Annex 1: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                             ......................................................................................          18

    Annex 2: DetailedDescriptionon ProjectComponents                                     ........................................................................        20

    Annex 3: Summaryof EstimatedProject Cost                             ......................................................................................          25

    Annex 4: Financial Management (FM) Report                             .....................................................................................          26

    Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements                      ....................................................................................................           30

    Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                        ...............................................................................................           33

    Annex 7: The Challenge of the Crisis                 .....................................................................................................           35

    Annex 8: Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members                                          .............................................................       37

    Annex 9: FoodPriceCrisis Response(FPCR) Trust Fund (TF)                                             ..........................................................       38

    Annex 10: FA0 OngoingProjects                   ..........................................................................................................           39

    Annex 11:List of Project File/SupportingDocuments                                   .........................................................................        43

    Annex 12: Somalia at a Glance              ..............................................................................................................            44

    Annex 13: Map of Somalia           ......................................................................................................................            46




                                                                     iv


                                    SOMALIA
RAPID RESPONSEREHABILITATION OF RURALLIVELIHOODPROJECT
                EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET
                                      AFRICA
                                       AFTAR


 Date: August 26, 2008                         TeamLeader: Berhane Manna
 Country Director: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham      Sectors: General agriculture, fishing andforestry
 Sector ManagerDirector: Karen                 sector (100%)
 Mcconnell Brooks/Inger Andersen               Themes: Global food crisis response (P)
                                               Environmental screening category: B
 Lending Instrument: Emergency
 Recovery Loan
 Types o f Operation:
New Operation      [ X ]       Additional Financing [ 3       Existing Financing (restructuring)[ ]
 Financing Type:        Loan[ ]        Credit [ ]     IDAGrant [I           Other [X ]
 Project ID(s): P113218                          Total Amount: 7 MillionUSD
 Proposed terms:                                 Expectedimplementationperiod: 2 years
 Expected effectiveness date: September 1,       Expectedrevised closing date: September 30,
 2008                                            2010
 Grant Recipient: FA0                            Responsible Agency: FA0
Development Objective: The project development objective is to increase crop and livestock
                               ~~                                                 ~
production in project areas affected by the- food crisis.
 Short Description: The project seeks to address the immediacy o f the situation by: (i)
                                                                                       responding
                                                                                                -
to the urgentneed for financial assistance arising from the impact ofthe current food crisis
 identifiedby authorities inSomalia andbythe international community and (ii) inplace
                                                                                  putting
inputs andinfrastructure for the short runthat will serve to improve food production. The
proposed project activities buildon the ongoing projects inSomalia to assist inaddressing the
crisis with increased attention being paidto: (i)crops (component one) and (ii)  livestock
(component two) productivity. Both o f these components pay attention to mainstreamingnutrition
and gender concerns inthe interventions. The FA0Emergency Operations unit for Somaliabased
inNairobiwill manage the grant andimplement andmonitor the projectthroughpartnerships with
international and local NGOs (withnewpartners, ifnecessary) with a strong operational presence
inproject areas. Theproposedgrant is beingundertaken under the Global FoodCrisis Response
Program (GFRP), which was endorsed by the Boardon M a y 29,2008, andwill be financed out o f
the FoodPrice Crisis Response (FPCR) TrustFund.

FinancingPlan(US$7.0 m.)
Source                                I Local                        I Foreign          I Total
Borrower                                0.00                           0.00               0.00
Special Financing                       0.00                           7.00               7.00
Total:                                  0.00                           7.00               7.00
FY                2009      2010       2011
Annual             1.00      4.00      2.00
Cumulative         1.00      5.00      7.00

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant       [ ]Yes [XINO
respects?
Have these been approved by Bank management?                              [ ]Yes [IN0

Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"? [XIYes [ ] N o

What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?OP/BP 4.01, OP 4.09 and      [XIYes [ ] No
OP 7.50
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:




                                         2

A.      INTRODUCTION
1.      This project document seeks the approval o f a grant under the Global Food Crisis
Response Program (GFRP), which was endorsed by the Boardon May 29,2008, and will be
be financed out of and the FoodPrice Crisis Response (FPCR) Trust Fund(TF) inthe amount
o fUS$7.0 millionto support a RapidResponse Rehabilitation o f Rural Livelihoods Project
(RRRRLP) inSomalia. The objectives o f the proposedGFRP are to: (i)       reduce the negative
impact o fhighand volatile food prices on the lives o f the poor ina timely way; (ii) support
governments inthe design o f sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts o fhigh
and more volatile food prices onpoverty while minimizing the creation o f long-term market
distortions; and (iii)support broad-based growthinproductivity and market participation in
agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply response.

The situation in Somalia warrants support from the FPCR TF because it is one o f the countries
most affectedby the global food price crisis and has a dire humanitarian situation
characterized by the UNas "worse than Darfur". According to the Food and Agriculture
Organization o f the UnitedNations (FAO) Food Security Analysis Unit(FSAU) inits report
issued on May 9,2008, the humanitarian situationinSomalia is deteriorating at an accelerated
rate due to: (i) sky rocketing food prices; (ii) devaluation o fthe Somali Shilling; (iii)
                                                 extreme
deepening drought following an abnormally harsh dry season; (iv) delayed andpoor start o f
the Gurains (mid-Aprilto June); and (v) prolonged civil conflict. The worsening food crisis
inSomaliapoints to anurgentneed for increased financial support andthe WorldBankcan
best assist by financing funding gaps inexisting programs being implementedby
international, national, and non-governmental institutions. This approach would enable rapid
implementation and greatest impact.

2.      The grant will be made to the FA0 as the implementing agency. FA0 is currently
involvedinnumerous projects inSomalia (Paragraphs18- 24), and has an extensive
knowledge o f the situation on the ground and capacity to coordinate and implement inan
efficient and effective manner. The proposedgrant will help finance, on an urgent basis over
18 months to two years, the costs associated with increasing crop and livestock production
systems.

3.      Withinthe context ofnational stability,the Djibouti Processrepresents an ongoing
attempt at reconciliation betweenthe Transitional Federal Government (TFG) and the
Alliance for the Re-Liberation o f Somalia. This process opens prospects for a variety o f
expanded and different interventions that could buildeven more on the components being
addressedinthis project. However, it should also be noted that the implementation and
success o f this project i s not fully dependent onthe signingand implementation o f such a
broader agreement. This project may be implementedthrough the capacity and networks
currently inplace, as shown by current activities already underway. As an existing, pragmatic
operationalprinciple, it i s always recognized that improvement o f the security and governance
situation will enable even greater impacts to be realized insouthern and central Somalia,
while the maintenance o f a flexible approach to implementationpromotes success insouthern,
central and Puntland regions.

4.      The project is designed to work across a range o f governance environments, ranging
from the relatively stable situation inSomaliland, through the nascent stabilityinPuntlandto
the current unstable governance environment insouthern and central Somalia. Clearly though,
the positive impacts o f the project will be markedly enhanced ifthe latter region's security
and political situation improve.



                                                  3

B.      STRATEGICCONTEXT OF THE RRRRLP

5.      The Reconstruction and Development Program (RDP) and Interim Strategy Note
(ISN) for Somalia (World Bank, 2007), indicate that Somalia i s a fragile state and highrisk
country. With its peculiar governance and security situation, a number o f risks mustbe
recognized and taken into account inthe design o f this project. These include, most
particularly insouthern and central regions: (i)   the absence o f or at best weak core state
functions by the Transitional Federal Government (TFG); (ii)       the lack o f clear priorities ina
reform agenda; (iii) the inability o f institutions to have a field presence which makes
monitoringand evaluation and ascertaining full compliance with fiduciary requirementsvery
difficult; and (iv) challenges inattracting and retaining competent and experienced staff to
work in a fragile state, includingthe possibility o f abduction o f foreign staff and targeting of
foreigners by anti-government andor criminal elements. The failed governance situation
complicates rural area and agricultural development assistance inan even more direct way.

6.       Successful interventions over the short-run are therefore dependent on a strategy that
recognizes the peculiar situation inorder to minimize risks. WB support should be
characterized by an approachthat includes: i)focus on a small number o f carefully selected
activities inrelatively secure parts o f the country; ii)support that buildson on-going
activities; iii)implementation through collaborative arrangements that engage reliable and
reputable intermediaries such as UNagencies and internationalNGOs.

C.      THE CHALLENGEOFTHE CRISIS: COUNTRY CONTEXT, RECOVERY
         STRATEGY,AND RATIONALEFORTHE PROPOSEDGFRPTF
C-1     COUNTRYCONTEXT
7.      In1989 Somaliawas a sparsely populatedcountry withabout 6 millionpeople. In
2006 the populationwas estimated to be 7.7 million. Somalia's population i s predominantly
rural, with over 50 percent o f the population traditionally linkedto the nomadic pastoral food
economy and about halfthat figure associated with sedentary ago-pastoral/riverine
livelihoods. While the absence o f hard demographic data makes it impossible to gauge the
extent o fthe phenomenon, it is clear that the rural-urban populationprofile i s inthe process o f
radical change.

8.       Since 1991 Somalia has not functioned as a unitarystate. The state has effectively
fragmented into three distinct regional blocks, loosely reflecting the territorial distribution o f
the major clans, which remain the dominant force inthe country's social, political, and
economic affairs. The country remains one o f the poorest countries inthe world. On an
income measure o f poverty, 43 percent o f the population i s extremely poor (less than $1 per
day). The incidence o f general poverty (less than US$2 per day) i s 73 percent, o f which 61
percent are urban and 80 percent rural. The poverty gap which indicates the depth o fpoverty
stands at 18.3 percent.

9.      The structure o f the economy remains similar to the pre-1991 period and i s
predominantly agricultural. In 1991agriculture production was 64 percent o f total Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). About half o fthis was generated by the livestock sub-sector. It i s
anticipated that given the growth o f the private sector, especially livestock, its contribution to
GDP i s even larger. Crops and fruits production account for 37 percent o f GDP. The most
prominent sub-sectors inservices are trade, hotels, transport, and communications. Diaspora
contributions have also played a central role inSomalia's economy and it i s estimated that one
thirdo fthese contributions is for householdsurvival, and the rest has been destined to private
investments. Remittances o f about US$l billion (0.8 billion) per year have assistedprivate

                                                 4

sector resilience, which, despite 15 years o f civil war, has seen a growth intrade and
communications and strong livestock exports. The private sector has, to a significant extent,
mitigated the impact o f state collapse and war on the Somali people.

10.     Livestock remains the most important production sector o f Somalia. Despite
continuing livestock bans, approximately 2 millionanimals are exported each year, which
create about 60 percent o f Somalia's job opportunities and generate about 40 percent o f
Somalia's GDP and 80 percent o f its foreign currency earnings. Taxation o f livestock trade
and export is one o f the major revenue sources for the local administration inNorth Eastern
(Puntland) and NorthWestern Somalia (Somaliland).


c-2     SOMALIA RECOVERY STRATEGY

11.      In2005 aprocess was initiatedto preparepost conflictjoint needsassessment(JNA)
for Somalia that would identifykey development areas and financial needs for a five-year
period. The teams, internationalexperts includingexperts from the diaspora and local Somali
experts, consulted extensively with a wide range o f stakeholders inSomalia. This process
resulted inthe preparation of a Reconstruction and Development Program (RDP) for Somalia
(2006). The RDP recognizes the different stages o f development inthe country and has
separate regional assessmentsthat have been validated through a consultative process. The
regional volumes take account o f the Somaliland and Puntland Strategic Plans and reflect the
consultations undertaken inJanuary 2007.

12.     The RDP i s the agreed framework for support to Somalia for the next five years and
buildsonthree pillars:
    0   Deepening peace, improving security, and establishing good-governance;
    0   Strengtheningessential basic services and social protection; and
    0   Creating an enabling environment for private sector-led growthto expand employment
        and reduce poverty.

The second and thirdpillars are o f immediate relevance to this FPCR TF project.


C-3     RATIONALE FORTHE PROPOSEDBANKFPCRTF PROJECT
13.     The current crisis situation inSomalia canbe characterized as follows:


0   Highfood prices and dependence of Somalia on food imports. The Somalia economy
   i s heavily dependent on trade, includingfood imports, which account for about 60 percent
   o f cereal consumption. Oils, fats, and dairy products are the other significant category o f
    food imports. The urban areas, particularly incentral and northern Somalia, usually prefer
   imported wheat and rice. As importprices increased, people turned to local cereals such
   as maize and sorghum, which were negatively affectedby the poor Gu rains. As a result,
   current prices increased 200-300 percent over last year's prices. This extremely high
   inflation, exacerbated by a contemporaneous collapse o f the Somali Shilling, has reduced
   the purchasing power o f Somali households, making them even more food insecure.

0  Remittances, central to Somalia's economy and the survival of its households, are
   likely to decrease. The global economic challenges, especially the increase inprices o f
   commodities and services, have a negative impact on the well-being o f Somali diaspora
   households. This will preclude any increase inremittancesto Somalia and will most likely
   result ina decrease.



                                               5

0   Deterioration of irrigation, flood control infrastructure, and agricultural services.
    Only about 15percent o fthe landthat used to be irrigatedprior to the civil war can
    currently be irrigated, and the slightest rise inthe level o f the Shabelle and Juba rivers
    result infloods due to the deterioration o f flood control embankments and reliefchannels.
    Some irrigation rehabilitation initiatives are funded by the EuropeanUnion (EU) and are
    implementedby FA0 incollaboration with NGOs. However, these initiatives are not
    sufficient to meet the needs o f Somalia. Agricultural services, with the exception o f a few
    initiatives being implementedbyFA0 and incollaborationwith NGOs, are also absent for
    most agricultural, agro-pastoral, and pastoral communities.



D.       BANKRESPONSE: THE PROJECT
D-1 BRIEFDESCRIPTIONOFTHE BANK'S STRATEGYOFEMERGENCYSUPPORT
14.     The response focuses on measures to address the short term implicationo f the global
food crisis for Somalia, which is fully consistent with the Bank's Global FoodCrisis
Response Program (GFRP) and i s inline with OP 8.00. The objective o f GFRP are to: (i)
respond to the urgent need for financial assistance arising from the impact o f the current food
crisis identified by authorities inSomalia andby the international community and (ii)       putin
place inputsand infrastructure for the short runthat will serve to improve food production.

15.     The GFRP includes support for interventions inthe following areas: (i)     increased food
productionthrough distribution o f improved inputs; (ii)   increased food production through
rehabilitation and improvement o f crop production infrastructure; and (iii)    Strategies for using
livestock resources to address the current food crisis

D-2      PROJECTDEVELOPMENT        OBJECTIVE

16.     The project development objective (PDO) is to increase crop and livestock production
inareas affectedbythe food crisis.

Project Components

17.     There are two frameworks for identifylngneeds in Somalia: the Reconstruction and
DevelopmentProgram (RDP) for medium-longer term interventions and the Consolidated
Appeal Program (CAP) for emergency response. Within the RDP there are three Pillars, with
Pillar 3 being "Establishing an Environment for RapidPoverty Reducing Development".

18.     The UNCountry Team has developed and initiated a US$409 millionUNTransition
Plan (UNTP), which i s ineffect a subset o f the RDPwherein the UNhas a comparative
advantage. One o f UNTP's five Priority Outcomes - "Vulnerable andmarginalized groups
have improved, sustainable food security and economic opportunities" (UNTP-05) - is clearly
withinthe ambit ofthe RDP Pillar 3. UNTP-05 is costed at US$104.8 millionover two years.
As o fJuly 2008, UNTP-05 is 40% funded over the two year needs.

19.     The CAP 2008 mid-year funding status for emergency needs as o f July 2008, was 42%
funded, ifallpledges are met, o fa total revisedneedo fUS$637.3 million. Withinthe CAP
2008, the `Agriculture and Livelihoods' Cluster i s 21% funded - US$14.7 millionreceived out
o f a needo f US$71.1 million.




                                                6

20.     Interms ofthe existingFA0Somaliamulti-year portfolio (which currently standsat
US$44 million, runningthrough February 2010), an approximate breakdown o f sectors o f
implementation would be 35% crops (rainfed and irrigation), 20% livestock, 35% information
systems, and 10%other. Geographically, FA0 Somalia activities are split with 55% allocated
for Southernand Central Somalia, 24% to Puntland, and 21% to Somaliland. This geographic
breakdown i s ingeneral agreement with boththe RDP and the UNTP.

21.     The above figures serve to illustrate that the World Bank funding i s not filling up gaps
to the level o f the specific targets set by the RDP, UNTP or CAP, given that the remaining
needs are much greater than the proposedWB funding.Rather, the resources will be used in
concert with the existing and planned FA0 Somalia Program inorder to achieve increased
impact through a consolidated approach.

22.     The proposedproject activities buildon the ongoing projects inSomalia to assist in
addressing the crisis with increased attention beingpaid to: (i) crops (component one) and (ii)
livestock (component two) productivity. Both o f these components pay attentionto
mainstreaming nutrition and gender concerns inthe interventions.

ComponentI:Improving Food Production Capacity (US$3.7million)

Sub-component 1.1:Increasedfood production through distribution of improved inputs
(US$1.96million)

23.    A key feature ofthe project proposal to addressthe food crisis is the inclusion ofa sub-
component to support resumption o f agricultural production and increased household food
security by removing the mainproductionconstraints. The project will support provision o f
seeds o f maize and sorghum, which have proved to be highlyproductive insimilar
environmental conditions. Seeds will be procured from the localmarkets and distributed
through existingNGOsor NGO-initiated community organizations. Complementary inputs
such as toolshmplements and fertilizer (mainly urea) will also be made available.

24.    This sub-component will rely greatly on established distribution networks consisting o f
bothlocal and international NGO partners at regional and district levels. Inputs(such as
seeds) will be procured from suppliers and distributed through contract arrangements with
these NGOs, and ifnecessary with new partners. FA0will provide logistical arrangements,
coordination and monitoring for the distribution o f these inputs.The specific activities under
this sub-component are:
           0     Distributiono f technology packages (seeds, fertilizer, and farm implements) to
                 farmers inShebelle valley (maize) and inthe Sorghum belt (sorghum).
           0     Training o f farmers-mainly     women growing food crops-in    improved
                 agronomic and nutritional practices. This will include training inusingthe new
                 technology, including seed quality management, and nutritional utilization o f
                 the increased food grains and livestock products.
           0     Evaluation o f use and impact o f technology packages. This will include post
                 distribution review evaluationexercises carried out to infodimprove future
                 assistance.




                                                 7

Sub-component 1.2: Increasedfood production through rehabilitation and improvement of
cropproduction infrastructure (US$1.7 million)

25.     Expanding acreages o f agricultural crops canbe used to address the current food crisis
through rehabilitation o f water infrastructure. The long absence o f stabilityand consequent
lack o f institutions have led to the collapse o fbasic infrastructure that serves the agricultural
sector inthe most productive areas o f Somalia. The project will support rehabilitation o f
canals (150 km); river embankments (40 km); sluice gates (20); water catchments (65) and
feeder roads (110km).Currently, FA0 is working closely with Somalia Water and Land
InformationManagement (SWALIM) and this collaboration will cany-over to enable
appropriate project implementation o f infrastructure rehabilitation activities.

26.     This sub-component will be implemented inSomaliland and Puntland (water
catchment) and inCentral-South Somalia (irrigation). The specific activities are:
                  Carrying out o fprofile surveys for all canals, embankments, and roads that
                  needto be rehabilitated.
             0    Rehabilitation o f infrastructure through a combination o f private sector
                  contracts and labor sourced from the community (withexplicit commitment to
                  employment o f women).

Component11:Support Strategiesfor Using LivestockResources toAddress the Current
Food Crisis (US$2.2 million)

27.     The current food crisis i s exacerbated by constraints inproduction, animal health, and
marketing, which are compoundedby animal diseases and repeated trade bans by major
trading partners inthe Middle East. About 55% o f Somalis are directly engaged inlivestock
production, which provides 55% o f calorie intake at household level. Milkproductioni s
critical to subsistence consumption and 33 % o f off-take i s consumed byproducers. The
constraints affect the populationparticularly in Somaliland and Puntland, which have beenthe
major livestock producers and traders. Livestock trade i s crucial and o f direct importance for
family household food security.

28.     The current food crisis inSomalia canbe addressed through providingmore animal
protein (and thus address malnutrition and enhance food security) and increasing availability
(and thus increasing the ability o f affected communities to access food). The specific activities
under this component are:

Sub-component 2.1: Support tofodder production and marketing (US$1.1million)

29.     Fodder production and marketing canbe usedto address the current food crisis by
securing livestock assets. Feed i s a scarce resource inmost parts o f Somalia almost every
year. Insome locations where feed is occasionally adequate inquantity it i s almost always
deficient inquality, mainly low levels o fprotein and energy. This situation seriously limits
livestock growth andproduction. Inthe drier pastoral areas, the quality and amount (quantity)
o f forage available i s almost always insufficient for the number o f animals attempting to feed
off it. Inthe mixed farming areas along dry river beds and flood plains, naturalpastures are
being taken over for subsistence cropping and production o f fodder. Inthe mixedproduction
systems, crop residues and by-products are important inthe livestock diet but are usually low
innutrientsandoftenwastedor usedinefficientlydue to inadequateknowledge andthe
capacity to process and conserve them as livestock feed.




                                                 8

30.     This sub-component will increase access to fodder, "guarantee" better returns to
producers and traders, and promote supplyresponse. Itwill be implementedinSomaliland
and Puntland. The interventions being proposedwill include:
        Increasinglivestock production andproductivity through the provisiono f highquality
        fodder.
        Reducing seasonal feed shortfalls by improving fodder harvesting (introduce better
        tools), storage (baling), and conservation (silage fodder with added feed additives
        including molasses and nitrogen sources). The shortfalls will also be addressed
        through the fortification o fmaize stover with molasses (energy source) and
        ammonium (nitrogen source).
        Enhancing fodder market access through improved quality and shelf-life by baling.
        Creating employment by training youth to be manualbalers to provide services for a
        fee.
        Training o f farmers/pastoralists inpreparation o f silage and inappropriate range
        rehabilitation techniques.
        Improving fodder production and productivity by usingselected lines o f improved
        local grasses and sorghum (Le. support the development o f seed andplanting materials
        at selected sites).
        Increasingthe area under fodder productionby stabilizing rivers and irrigation canals
        with grasses, while creating awareness onthe needto improve range andwater
        harvest.

Sub-component 2.2: Improving slaughter houses with value addition services (US$1.2
million)

31.    InSomalia, meatandmeatproducts, slaughterhouses andrelatedinfrastructure,
including butcheries, meat transport and delivery practices, and retail businesses (meat
markets), are undevelopedand the associated human health risks impact household incomes
and livelihoods. The proposedrange o f infrastructural intervention aims at the rehabilitation
o f slaughter-related basic infrastructuresat community level, and will be implementedas
integral components o fthe already on-going FAO-Somalia projects to ensure that all the
required components o f training as part o f the capacity building, support to localmanagement,
provision o f equipment and tools, and regulatory aspects will benefit from the FA0 technical
back-stopping. The specific activities under this sub-component are:
        Rehabilitation o f slaughter facilities (one in Somaliland and one inPuntland).
        Training o f laborers working inthe slaughter facilities inclean meat production; this
        will include identifymgand maximizing o fquality cuts, protecting products through
        clean and sanitary methods, and minimizing damage to by-products.
        Improvinghides and skins collection andpreparation, including drying.
        Harvesting and processingby-products alongside hides and skins (blood, bones, and
        manure) with ready market inthe region.
        Promotion o fby-product use for improved nutrition and increased incomes, including
        consumption o f what mightbe considered inferiorproducts and use o f manure for
        agricultural purposes.
        Support for the production and sale o f local traditional processed meat
        Improvingrecovery, sale and consumption o f offals.

        This sub-component will be implemented inSomaliland and Puntland.




                                                9

ProjectManagement and ImplementationArrangements

33.     The proposedproject will not create new implementing units at the country level. The
FA0Emergency Operations unitfor SomaliabasedinNairobiwill manage the grant and
implement andmonitor the project through partnerships with international and localNGOs
(and with new partners, ifnecessary) with a strong operationalpresence inproject areas.

34.     The agreement between FA0 and participating NGOswill spell out the conditions
under which these participating agencies will work under the project. The project will be
implementedwithin a periodo f two years from date o fproject approval.

35.     However, giventhe need for effective coordination o f the implementation o f the
various project components and the challenges presented by the limited capacity within
ministries and departments, a full-time Project Manager, who will be responsiblefor the day-
to-day management o fthe project, will be recruitedon a competitivenessbasis (following
FA0recruitmentprocedures). The ProjectManagerwill be technically supported bythe FA0
sectoral unitsbasedinNairobi andby the relevant technical divisions at FA0 headquarters
level.

36.     At the operational level, a ProjectAdvisory Committee (PAC) chairedby the Project
Manager, with membership o f senior technical personnelo f the concerned departments (in
Government and with other donors) will provide lead coordination and ensure that results
meet the project targets.

37.     FAO's specific responsibilitiesfor project implementation include: (i)      monitoring and
ensuring full implementation o fthe program agreed under the project; (ii)     submitting
quarterly progress reports to IDA; (iii) developing an Operational Planto guarantee
sustainability after closing date; (iv) conducting a Mid-TermReview o fproject progress
within three months from the close o fthe first project year; (v) implementation ofthe
Environmental and Social ManagementFramework (ESMF) and Pest Management Plan
(PMP); and (vi) preparing an Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

MonitoringandEvaluationPlan

38.     Table 1.1inAnnex I Result Framework, summarizes the Project Development
Objectives (PDO) to be achieved, project outcomes indicators, and intermediate outcomes
indicators. Table 1.2 inthe sameAnnex I summarizes the data collection and reporting,
frequency o f reporting, and instruments for data collection. This informationwill be used to
track progress towards the PDO and make changes as neededduring implementation.

39.     FA0 will have the primary responsibility for monitoringand evaluation (M&E); itwill
monitor progress against agreed performance monitoringindicators and submitprogress
reports. Monitoringo fprojects inFA0 i s carried out at three levels: (i)   FieldProgram
Monitoring and Coordination Services (TCOM); the Regional Operations Branch (ROB); and
the Budget Holder (FA0 Representative). TCOM manages the field program management
information system which can be accessedfrom any location. The system provides pre-
programmed access to project information and aggregate data at the country level. Project
evaluation and audits are carried out by an independent mission comprising a team o f
specialists external to the project, constituted by the parties specifically for this purpose, with
specific TOR.




                                               10

40.     The project will buildonthe existing M&E system o f the FAO, includingthe
Management Information System (MIS). M&Ewill focus onproject implementation, project
performance andproject impact. Monitoring will consist o f continuous andperiodic review
o f activities with respect to the implementation o f the work plan. Itwill also include
monitoring o f environmental indicators. The project will be subject to evaluation at least once
(terminal stage) and this will be funded by the project. FA0 will gather socio-economic data
at the community level duringthe project start-upphase. This will be used to assess the
project's impact and sustainability.

41.     A chart showing the project implementationstructure is presentedbelow. Additional
details onproject implementation arrangement are presented inAnnex 6.



            Project implementationstructure
                  -
                  FA0 HQsT e ~ n ~ ~ ~ A d m l n ibackstopping
                                                     s ~ r ~ ~ v e
                  providedby relevantdivisions


                         in NairobiManagement



                            partner NGOs




  m
 e
 .L-



                                                                   Ministries Project-

          i

                                                                ]
          a,                           I I                                                1
         -,-.
          E     ~ ~ ~ p r o j m s t a f f FA0 Projectstaff        I ~ ~ ~ ~ f o j e c t s t a f f
          o\
         -7         Implementingpartnersstaff-INGOSandLNGOS




                                              11

Consistency with the Somalia InterimStrategy


42.     The second objective o f the ISNfocuses on community drivendevelopment and
decentralized service deliveryin Somaliland and Puntland. RRRRLwill respondto the
emerging highglobal food crisis by addressingproduction constraints, rebuilding social
capital, and strengthening local level institutions to improve the livelihoodo f agricultural and
pastoral communities insouth-central Somalia, Somaliland, and Puntland. The project i s
implementedby FA0 Somalia usingexisting non-state capacity, such as international and
localNGOs. FA0 i s already involvedinongoing initiatives to enhance food production.


D-3     EXPECTED    OUTCOMES

43.     The expected outcomes o f the project are increased food security and improved
livelihood systems directly associated with creating greater capacity o f community
organizations and service providers. These outcomes will be realizedthrough increases in
productivity for bothlivestock and agricultural products, reductions inpost-harvest losses for
mainly food products, improved nutition for families, and greater empowerment o f women.
The latter outcome i s achieved through the creation o f employment for women and increasing
their nutritional knowledge and organizational skills. The project component description in
Annex 1elaborates further on the process, and Annex 2 presents outcome indicators.


E.      APPRAISAL OF PROJECTACTIVITIES
E-1 ECONOMIC

44.     The nature o f a rapidresponse rehabilitation o f livelihoods project targeted at poor
beneficiaries inan unstable political and economic environment does not lenditself to
financial or economic analysis. Yet, even inthe absence o fthese dire conditions it i s always
difficult to measure the economic impact o fhumanitarian and technical assistance, and
capacity buildingprojects. However, despite the country situation andmethodological
challenges, it can still be argued that a number o f positive economic outcomes can be
expected. For instance, the project i s directed wholly at rehabilitating and improving the
infrastructure, inputs and human capacities that underpin agriculture and livestock production
performance, two areas o f economic activity that directly determine the outcomes o f the food
and livelihood systems o f the majority o f the people o f Somalia. Further, the project will
strengthen the community and local administrative capacity to manage private and social
capital and this would directly increase economic welfare o fproject stakeholders and have
positive spin-offs for their communities.

E-2     TECHNICAL

45.     The proposedproject builds on previous and ongoing assistancebynumerous
technical organizations working multilaterally and bilaterally in Somalia over a long period o f
time. Most importantly inthis regardis the technical capacity and experience o f FAO, which
will be the mainimplementing agency o fthisproject. FA0has a Somalia country office
which has established agriculture, livestock, nutition and women's empowerment projects
that are working very well, transferring technical and organizational capacity, and improving
food security and incomes o f small producers inSomalia. This project and its partnership with
FA0will enable wider distribution o fthese technologies and facilitate the capacity o f
communities to use them successfully.



                                               12

E-3      SOCIAL

46.      This project mainstreams nutritionand gender concerns as a part o f its integrated
technical and economic approach. The project activity directed at improving agricultural and
food production capacity promotes inclusion o f women and income targets that will ensure
that they gain financially. Further, as apart o f the support to nutrition, farm inputswill be
targeted at women through the establishment o f kitchen gardens. Similarly, it i s recognized
that women, beingby far the majority of the participants onthe meat value chain, will benefit
from the livestock sector activities o f the project. Through these and other interventions it i s
clear that important explicit outcomes o f the project will result inpositive social impacts.

E-4      FIDUCIARY

47.      Due to the extended conflict situation inthe country, the Bank has not carried out a
Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) inSomalia. Bothphysical and human
infrastructureswere destroyed by the war among different warlords, includingan exodus of
skilled personnel. The civil war also contributedto the loss o fpublic procurement policies,
practices, procedures, as well as the skills o fpractitioners and institutions.

48.      Fiduciary risks for this project are mitigated bythe fact that FA0 will be incharge o f
financial management and procurement. The FinancialArrangements for this project will be
based on the World Bank-United Nations Financial Management Framework Agreement
(FMFA), to which FA0is a signatory. FA0will handleall the financial management aspects
usingits ownprocedures set out inthe FA0 FinancialRegulations.The funds will therefore
be channeled through FAO, which will act as boththe direct recipient and the Project
Implementing Agency. FA0 shall have overall fiduciary responsibility over the project.

49.      As per the FMFA,the Bank's audit requirements are met through the normalbiennium
audit o f FAO, and separate audited financial statements and audit reports from FA0 for the
project are not required. FA0 will prepare and submit un-audited semi-annual or interim
financial reports (IFR) to the Bank within a periodo f 45 days after the end o f the relevant
semi-annual periodending June 30 and December 31, inform and content satisfactoryto the
Bank. The IFRwill consist o f a statement o f sources and uses o f funds (by main expenditure
classifications), opening and closing balances o f the funds from the Bank, and actual and
budgetedexpenditures by component andor activity within component and explanations o f
any variances, for the semi-annual period and cumulatively for the project.

50.      Inthe implementation o fall activities, the FA0procurementprocedures will be
applicable inplace o f the Bank Procurementand Consultant Guidelines and the Bank will not
exercise its regular procurement oversight through post and prior review. To mitigate any
risks, the Bankwill conduct intensified supervision o f the outcomes andresults o fthe project.
Inaddition, the Grant Agreement betweenthe Bank andFA0will contain alternative
provisions to the Bank standard clauses regarding audit, fraud and corruption consistent with
provisions insimilar legal agreements between the Bank and other UNagencies.

E-5      ENVIRONMENTAL

51.      The proposedproject has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment; OP 4.09 Pest
Management; and OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. The environmental category
o f the project i s B, and the safeguards category is S2.




                                               13

52.      The potential adverse environmental impacts (i.e. loss o f vegetation, soil and water
pollution, soil erosion, increasedmalaria once the irrigationcanals have beenrehabilitated,
waste generation at the slaughterhouses) o f the proposed operation are expected to be limited.
Nevertheless, it will be o f critical importance to ensure (i) safe management o fpesticides and
veterinary drugs; (ii) sustainable use o f the rehabilitatedwater and transport infrastructures;
and (iii) environmentally and socially sustainable construction and operation o f
slaughterhouses. Towards this end, the borrower, with assistance from FAO, i s preparing an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for future sub-projects and, as an
attachment to the ESMF, a Pest Management Plan(PMP). The ESMF, with the PMP as an
attachment, will be disclosed inSomalia- with assistance from FA0 - inpublicly accessible
places, and at the Bank's InfoshopbyOctober 31,2008.

53.      Consistent with the requirements o f OP 4.01, the ESMF will outline an environmental
and social screening process o f sub-projects, with aparticular emphasis on (i)    screening o f
investments for potential adverse environmental and social impacts at the planning stage; (ii)
the assignment o f environmental categories to sub-projects based onthe screening results; (iii)
carrying out o f the appropriate environmental work; (iv) review and clearance of the screening
results and separate (Environmental Assessment) EA reports; (v) public consultations; (vi)
monitoringand reporting; (vii) environmental monitoringindicators; and (viii) the Bank's
safeguard policies. The PMP, consistent with OP 4.09, i s designed to address issuesrelatedto
pest management inagricultural production, and the use o f veterinary drugs to improve the
health o f livestock.

54.      Since the project will rehabilitate irrigation canals, river embankments, sluice gates,
and water catchments on the Juba and Shebelle rivers, it has triggered OP 7.50 Projects on
International Waters. The project essentially involves the rehabilitation o f existing canals, and
does not involve works and activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its
nature, or alter and expand its scope and extent to make it appear a new or different scheme.
Consequently, the project team has determinedthat giventhe nature o f the rehabilitation
works envisaged under the project, the project falls under the exception set forth inparagraph
7 (a) o f OP 7.50 as (a) it will not adversely affect the quality or quantity of water flows to the
other riparians; and (b) it will not be adversely affectedby other riparians' water use. A
memorandum to this effect has been approvedby the Regional Vice President.


SAFEGUARDPOLICIESTHAT MIGHTAPPLY

SafeguardPoliciesTriggered                                        Yes         N o         TBD
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP4.01)                               X
NaturalHabitats(OP/BP4.04)                                                    X
Forests(OP/BP4.361                                                            X
PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                           X
PhysicalCulturalResources(OP/BP 4.11)                                         X
IndigenousPeoples(OP/BP 4.10)                                                 X
InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                           X
Safetyof Dams(OP/BP4.37)                                                      X
Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP7.50)                     X
ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP7.60)                                           X

EnvironmentalCategory: B




                                                 14

F.IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTSAND FINANCINGPLAN

55.      Implementation Arrangements: Details of the proposed arrangement are in
paragraphs 40-46 andAnnex 6.


G.       PROJECTRISKS AND MITIGATINGFACTORS


      Risk          Description of Risk     Risk         RiskMitigation        Conditions of
                                            Rating  Measures incorporated      Negotiations,
                                                    into the Project Design      Board or
                                                                               Effectiveness
                                                                                (Yes or No)
1. Country Levc RiSkS
Absence o f      Differentauthorities       H      Internationalinvolvement   N
government       administer different areas        to strengthengovernment
functions        of the country; no single         institutions. The chances
                 recognized government             o f success in South-
                 authority.                        Central could also
                                                   improve once the UN
                                                  mediated Djiboutipeace
                                                   agreement is formalized
                                                   andimplemented.
Limitedcapacity  Weak capacity o f          H      Internationalagencies      N
                 regional authorities to           (FAO, etc.), private sector
                 effectively participate in        andNGOengagementin
                 the implementation ofthe          service delivery.
                 project.
Inabilityto have Security situationin       H      Employment o fqualified    N
field presence   South-Central and                 nationals and the
                 recently inPuntland, does        anticipated improvement
                 not reliably permitto            o f security resultingfrom
                 locate international staff       the ongoingpeace
                 on long-termbasis in             initiatives could improve
                 country. This inturn              security and result in
                 could havenegative               improved implementation
                 impact on                        and supervision o fproject
                 implementation,                  activities.
                 supervision and M&E.
Challenges in    Inability of international MH    Anticipated improvement     N
attracting and   community to retainstaff         inpeaceandhiringof
retaining        inSouth-Central and               Somali Diaspora, who are
competent staff  Puntland due to recent           willing to be located in
                 killingsandkidnapping.           country.
Territorial      Claimbyboth                MH    Continued involvement o f   M
dispute between  Somaliland and Puntland          community elders from
Somalilandand    on So01 and Sanaag               thetwo regions has so far
Puntland         regions could result in          reducedthe level o f armed
                 armedconflict between            conflict and is likely to
                 the two authorities.             continue.
Project Level Ri,
Weak fiduciary                              H     Appointment o f TAs         N
management                                        (FAO) to handle
system                                            procurement and financial
                                                  management aspects.


                                            15

Financial        Weak or nonexistent FM      H    Reliance on FAO's FM       N
Management       structures, low FM               arrangementinline with
                 capacity as aresult o f the      the wB/UNFMFA.FA0
                 prolonged insecurity and         has enormous experience
                 instability as aresult o f       of managing projects in
                 the conflict                     Somalia
Project          Proposedproject will        H    Participationo f           N
implementation   beginimplementation              beneficiaries through
                 under ahighlyrisk-prone          demanddriven
                 politicalenvironment.            implementation
                                                  arrangementswould
                                                  ensure adoption and
                                                  sustainability o fprogram
                                                  activities.
Flooding and     Dueto theprolonged          H    Some ongoing activities    N
inefficient      absence o fpublic                by FA0 andwith help
irrigation system services, the irrigation        from the donor
                 andflood control                 community is addressing
                 infrastructures along the        this riskthrough the
                 Shabelle andJubarivers           monitoring o fthe river
                 have deteriorated. This          flow andthe rehabilitation
                 resulted inreduction in          ofthe irrigation and flood
                 the irrigatedarea and the        control infrastructure. In
                 efficiency o f irrigation        addition, some o f the
                 andfrequent flooding             proposed activities and the
                 duringhighlevel river            project are foreseento
                 flow season.                     contribute to the
                                                  mitigation o f this risk.
Outbreak o f     Lack o fpublic sector       MH   A few ongoing activities
animal andplant technical and financial           are foreseento reduce this
pests and        support hasresulted in           risk;restructuringofthe
diseases         weak plant protection and        project to address
                 veterinary services.             potential emergencies
Unreliable       Unreliable rainfall and     MH   Improvementinsoil and
rainfall         inadequatesoil and water         water conservation
                 conservation inmost              measures and improved
                 parts o f the country result     irrigation would reduce
                 infailure ofcrops theloss        the riskofvulnerability
                 of livestock.




                                              16

H.       TERMSAND CONDITIONSOFPROJECTFINANCING
56.      The proposed grant is being undertakenunder the Global Food Crisis Response
Program (GFRP), which was endorsed by the Board on May 29,2008, and will be financed
out o f the FoodPrice Crisis Response (FPCR) Trust Fund.The overall aim o f the FPCR TF i s
to minimize the threat posedby highfood prices and sharply risingagricultural production
and marketing costs to the livelihoods of poor urban and rural residents indeveloping
countries. Grant funding, capped at US$10 million for each country, i s targeted to the most
fragile, poor and heavily impactedcountries and territories with little accessto immediate
funding. Somalia qualifies for these funds andthe currentproject is budgetedat US$7.0
million.

57.      There are no project-specific conditions o f effectiveness o f the financing agreement.
Actions that will be taken by negotiation are preparation by FA0 and agreement with the
World Bank on: (i)   annual work plan andbudget; and (ii) procurement plan. FA0 will
                                                              annual
submita second work planandbudget, andthe applicableprocurement planat least one
monthbefore the end o f the first year o f financing.

58.      Within the first three months after project approval, FA0 as implementing agency will
arrange, as a part o fproject operations, the preparationand submission to the World Bank o f
an Environmental and Social ManagementFramework (ESMF) consistent with OP 4.01
Environmental Assessment; and a Pest Management Plan (PMP) consistent with OP 4.09 Pest
Management.




                                              17

                                 Annex 1:ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                                       Table 1.1:ResultsFramework

1.PDO                                  Project Outcome Indicators                  Use o f Project Outcomes
                                                                                   Information
The project development objective is       0   Percentincreaseincrop production              Verification o f
to increasecrop and livestock                  inproject areas affectedbythe food            implementation
productioninareas affected bythe               crisis;                                       performance and
food crisis                                    Percentincreaseinmeat production              impact o f the project.
                                               inprojectareas, that meetsstandard

2. Intermediate Outcomes               Intermediate Outcome Indicators              Use o f Intermediate Outcome
                                                                                    Monitoring
I.:ImprovingFoodProduction
Capacity


    0   Distribution o f improved                                                            To demonstratethat
        inputs/minikits                    0   Number o f farmers usingimproved              progresshas been
                                               inputs/technology;                            achieved in
                                           0   Percent increase incrop yield                 strengthenedLivestoc.
                                                                                             production system
        Rehabilitationand
        improvement o f irrigation         0   Percent increase inarea(ha) under
        infrastructures                        irrigation

11.: Support Strategiesfor Using
Livestock Resourcesto Address
Current Food Crisis                        0   Numberofhidedskinsprocessed
    0   Improved livestock                     andmarketedper year;
        productionthrough more             0   Total (kg) o f dry meat                 0     To demonstratethat
        effective and efficient                processed/marketedper year;                   progresshas been
        feeding systems, including         0   Percent increaseinquantity (tons) of          achieved in
        fodder and crop residues ;             offal processedand consumedper                strengthenedLivestock
    0   Increased food safety, use             Year;                                         production system
        andmarket of livestock
        products through
        rehabilitation o f slaughter
        houses andprocessing units




                                                      18

    3
    ;4
    24


             0
             d      0
                    2

             5      5
                    !?
              m
             hEl    m
                    h
             a      a




E   rn   2
        *
    3               2



 -


    e
    m
   a"               n
                    4
  3                 3
  ;4
    24              324

                    Annex 2: DetailedDescription on ProjectComponents
ComponentI:ImprovingFoodProductionCapacity

Sub-component 1.1: Increasingproductionthroughdistributionof improvedinputs

1,      A key feature o fthe project proposalis the inclusion o fa component to support
resumption o f agricultural production and increased household food security by removing the
mainproduction constraints. The project will support provisiono f seeds o f maize and
sorghumwhich have provedto be highlyproductive insimilar environmental conditions,
tools/implements, and fertilizer (mainly urea). Seeds will be procured from the localmarket
and distributedthrough existing NGOs or NGO initiated communities. The project also aims
at distributinghand tools for the agricultural operation. Inaddition, the project will allocate
resources for portable equipment for seed testing and sampling. Training would also be
provided on sampling and testingprocedures.

2.      Selectiono fthe beneficiaries will be through participatory community-based
mechanism implemented by NGOsoperating inthe area. Giventhe capacity constraints, the
project will implement these activities through contractingNGOs and the private sector,
partneringwith FAO.

3.      Monitoringo f the targeted population to assess changes indietary diversity as a result
o fthe improved inputswill be conducted biannually, through assessment o f dietary diversity
scores as a component of the routine nutritionsurveys. A pilot study would be conducted
targeting vulnerable communities as identified fromthe nutrition surveys. The activity would
focus on producing community based gardens andor school gardens, usinga variety o f seeds
to promote a healthy balanceddiet. Parallelnutrition education sessionswould be conducted
to inform the population o fthe importance o f a diversified diet. Efforts to promote nutritious
locally available foods would be included. Special efforts would be placed to educate
women's groups on appropriate complimentary feeding practices.

4.      Eachtargeted household (15,000) inSouth Central will receive on the average o f 15
kgo f seeds, 1set o ftools and 50 kgo f urea. There will be a post review exercise on
distribution o f inputs and capacity building.

Sub-component 1.2: Increasingfood productionthroughrehabilitationand
improvement of crop productioninfrastructure

5.      Currently FA0 through SWALIM disseminates appropriate information related to
water use, flooding among other responsibilities. SWALIM will make available and share
relevant data to ensure appropriate project implementation.

6.      The project would support rehabilitation o f canals (150 km); river embankments (40
km); sluise gates (20); water catchments (65) and feeder roads (110km).The following
activities will be implemented by the project:

(a)     The project will undertake (where notyet available at FAO) an appraisal o f the
        condition o fthe river off-take structures and o f control structures within the irrigation
        system for the purpose o f determining their structural state and requirements for
        rehabilitation or repair. This will examine technical and economic aspects o f
        increasing the periodover which primary canals can be usedby redesigning the off-
        takes, relocating off-takes upstream and by pumpingwater into the primary canals.


                                                20

(8)     Survey to determine the extent o frequiredrehabilitation or necessary redesignor
        design will be carried out inthe selected areas. Profile surveys will be conducted for
        all canals, embankment and roads that will have to be rehabilitatedto establish the
        required excavation cut and fillrequired onthe canal or road sections. The topographic
        and profile surveys will be conducted within 5 months. The tendering process will be
        determinedon a case by case basis. Skilledlabor will be sourced by the community
        and contracted by the project. Women will be targeted for employment. Active
        involvement o f females will particularly be sought inall consultative forums,
        workshops, meetings and events. Due to the sex segregation o f Somali society inall
        three regions, involvement o f females will be ensuredby working with female
        resource persons at field level to mobilize and facilitate female uninhibited
        participation. A 1525% recruitment target is set for females to ensure their inclusion
        as beneficiaries ininfrastructure rehabilitation. This target will apply dependingon
        regional dynamics o f female participation inintensive labor. The attainment o f this
        target will largely depend on community entry strategies that are inclusive o f
        negotiatingbeneficiary identification to include women.

7.      Supervision o f work, works measurement, preparationo f volume-of-works declaration
forms will be undertakenby the project. The actual rehabilitation will be done through
contractors or where possible through cash for work activities.

                        Distribution of activitiesby administrative entities

    Administrative Krnofcanals             River          Stuice       Water         Kmof
       entities                        embankments         gates     catchments    feederroads
                                      I                           I               I
   Somaliland          0               0                 0          10             10

   Puntland            0               0                 0          35             0
 1 Central-south      1150            I40              I 2 0      I20             I100          I
This sub-component will complement on-going FA0 - Somaliaproject/activities


Component I1 Support Strategies for Using Livestock Resources to Address the
                  -
Current Food Crisis
8.      Somalia i s primarily a livestock country with animal production and marketingbeing
the major source o f food, income and employment for most o fthe population. Localregional
and export livestock trade are crucial and o f direct importance for family household incomes
and food security. Production, animal health, marketing and infrastructural constraints are
compoundedby repeated trade bans by major trading partners inthe MiddleEast adversely
impacting on food security and household incomes and livelihoods, particularly in Somaliland
and Puntlandwhich have been the major export market outlets.


9.      The present proposal builds on on-going work by FA0 -Somalia supported by the
EuropeanCommunity (EC) and other donors such as the League o f the Arab States,
Norwegian, Swedish and ItalianGovernments and includes as critical areas: (i)      reorganization
o f slaughter activities to increase the numbers o f animals slaughtered while improving the
quality o fmeat inthe local and export markets, (ii)   improverecovery andprocessing o f hides
and skins and other by-products, (iii)  strengthening systems andprocedures incommunity-


                                               21

based organizations (CBOs), localNGOs, community groups and local and central authorities
targeting the livestock sector, and (iv) general enhancement o f disease surveillance and
livestock emergency response capacity o f the public andprivate animal health services
providers.

10.     Complementing these activities will be the on-going support to local and export
slaughterhouses and the various actors by FA0 Somalia. There is also a needto make
provision to rebuildlivestock assets o f the pastoralistsafter severe shocks to prevent poor
livestock keepers to become completely destitute. The proposedproject will provide added
impetus to the on-going programs to create employment and stimulate the local economy. To
complement FA0 Somalia activities the local authorities propose to support service providers
around the livestock markets and slaughterhouses to improve service provision.

Sub-component 2.1 Support to fodder production and marketing

11.     Feed i s one scarce resource inmost parts o f Somalia and whenever it i s adequate in
quantity insome parts o f the country, it i s low inproteinand energy seriously limiting
livestock growth andproduction. Inthe drier pastoral areas the quality and amount (quantity)
o f forage available i s insufficient for the number o f animals attempting to feed off it.Inthe
mixed farming areas along dry river beds and flood plains naturalpastures are being taken
over for subsistence cropping andproduction o f fodder. Residues andby-products are
important inthe livestock diet but are usually low innutrients and often wasted or used
inefficientlydue to inadequate o f knowledge and capacity to process and conserve them.

12.     Therefore there i s an urgent need to improve the productivityo f fodder, and
profitability o fthe rangelands and flood plains as a basis for sustainable alleviation o f poverty
and improved household incomes. Lessons will be drawn from existing FA0 Somalia
programs in Somalia, and hence the project would:
        Support the development o f seed and plantingmaterials at the selected sides
        Facilitate the treatment o f effluent before being used for irrigationwhile the stock seed
        and planting materials will be obtained locally for bulkingat the farm after a thorough
        health inspection and quality assurance.
        Support slaughterhouses and farms to compost solid waste and manure from the
        holding pens and yards; the compost manure will then be spread on farms / areas
        selected for fodder production.
        Provide farmdareas selected for fodder production with farm equipment and tools and
        assisted to prepare the land for fodder production.
        Support groups to harvestand store water for irrigationandproduce seeds o f selected
        perennial grasses to rehabilitate range.
        Train farmers andpastoralists infodder production, preparationo f silage and in
        appropriate range rehabilitation techniques

                       Distribution of activities bv administrative entities
              Administrative        Surfaceplanted(Ha) as         Surfaceallocatedto
                  entities                  peroutput               seed production
           Somaliland                          300                          5

           Puntland                            200                          5
          1Central-south          I              0            I             0              I

                                                22

Sub-component 2.2: Improvingslaughter houseswithvalue addition

13.     Local slaughter facilities, where available are rundown, dilapidated and inurgent need
o frepairs. Those that function, employ veterinarians as meat inspectors who provide very
limitedhealth and meat inspection services. These services do not meet even the local
standards (See Somaliland and Puntland Meat Control Act just developed with assistance
provided by FA0 Somalia). The current crop of veterinarians and meat inspectiontechnicians
have some experience inquarantine and inspectionprocedures, but are nonetheless
insufficiently updatedon recent developments ininternationalmeat processingand hygiene
standards and have inadequate skills to carry out meat hygiene assessments, quality auditing,
hazardanalysis and critical control points (HACCP) assessment, microbiological testing and
residues monitoring.

14.     While significant work has been done by the private and public operators with support
o f FA0 Somalia on upgrading the operationalprocedures inthe export and local
slaughterhouses, the local slaughterhouses remain one o f the most crucial sub-sectors to
upgrade. The local slaughter facilities and meat markets inthe Country fall far short o f the
international and local standards and standards contained inthe draft Somaliland and Puntland
Meat Control Act and Public Health Policies already developedthrough the FA0 Somalia
assistance. The amount o f water provided per animal i s generally way below the standard
requirements (50 1. per sheep or goat, 1501. per camel and 120 1. per heado f cattle). The
personnel inall areas o f operation from slaughter to the sale o f meat have recently been
provided with appropriateworking tools andprotective clothing and trained incleanmeat
productionby the FA0 Somaliaprojects. The work environment, however, is still indire need
o frepairdrehabilitation.

15.     The slaughter and marketing facilities, which are located inresidential and commercial
areas o f the towns, have poor waste management and are inneed o f repairdconstruction to
continue operating safely. UN-Habitat i s currently constructing slaughter facilities intwo
municipalities (Gabiley inSomaliland and Garowe inPuntland). UN-Habitat i s also planning
to constructhehabilitate markets, including meat stalls inthe same municipalities and
Hargeisa in Somaliland. These developments provide an opportune time to institute
environmental, occupational and cleanmeat productionplans and to rehabilitate the remaining
slaughterhouses inthe some o f the major towns o f the two administrations (Somaliland and
Puntland).

16.     The proposedrange o f intervention aims at the rehabilitation o f slaughter related basic
infrastructuresat community and municipality level. The interventions will be implemented
as integral components o f the already on-going FA0 Somaliaprojects to ensure that all the
required components o f training as part o f the capacity building, support to localmanagement,
provisiono f equipment and tools, regulatory aspects will benefit from the FA0 technical
back-stopping which will be provided duringthe infrastructures development phase to secure
sustainability. FAO-Somalia proposes to support and / or facilitate the construction /
rehabilitation o f slaughter facilities to better employ the youth and women currently being
usedto slaughter inhomes andopen fields.

17.     The construction o f two slaughter facilities (one inSomaliland and one inPuntland)
and reorganizationo f activities will be instrumental inensuringthat the majority o f the
animals originated from the catchments areas are slaughtered inthe facilities. Inadditionthis
activity will:



                                                23

     0   Train slaughterhouse operators usingthe existing slaughter facilities and livestock and
         meat markets (butchers, meat vendors, slaughter facility supervisors, veterinarians,
         laboratory technicians, and the quality assurancepersonnel) to achieve highquality
         levels and reduce contamination.
     0   Work with Ministries responsible for livestock and the local authorities to assert
         themselves at the livestock markets, slaughter facilities and meat markets to ensure
         animal welfare andproduction and marketing o f wholesome meat. FAO-Somalia will
         support public-private sector partnership increating awareness on the existing policy
         and legal frameworks and the roles o f the various players inthe livestock industry.
     0   Assist the implementation o f a quality assurancesystem (HACCP) and occupational
         health plan throughout the chain, includingenvironmental management plans at the
         slaughter facilities and meat markets.
     a   Promote use o f slaughterhouse waste products into compost for use infodder
         production.

 18.     This component o f the project also has food security goals which it aims to achieve
through:


     0   Productiono f quality meat that will lead to lower wastage (estimated at 10-30%)
         which will result inlower meatprices at local level.
     0   Recovery o f offals which can be popularized and marketed by a localNGO/CBO at
         low market cost
     a   Improvement inthe recovery o f hides and skins and thus expandthe sources o f income
         to the butchers and meat trades (as currently all the profit i s generated from meat only
         thusrising itsprice.
     a   Expanding the type o f animal parts which can be processed and sold (e.g. offals)
         together with a boosting effect on the processing and market capacity o f hides and
         skins this would result inlower meat prices.
     0   Improvement o f meat processing, as current processinghas highwastage thus rising
         upthe price o fprocessedmeat, will improve production efficiency andreduce prices.

 19.     There i s a specific target interms o f reducingthe highmalnutrition levels relatedto
micronutrient deficiencies, especially anaemia. Lev& o f anaemia from the only available
study for Somaliland havebeenidentified at 59.9% o f childrenbetween6-59 months, with
 18.3% classified as mild anaemia, 33.2% moderate anaemia and 8% severe anaemia. Offals,
with their highhaem-iron andproteincontent, couldbe ideallyusedto combat anaemia inthe
population. Despite this, they are not a preferredfood inSomaliland, often go to waste. The
proposedproject will include a knowledge, attitudes and practice analysis to find out the
prevailing attitudes towards offals and the reasons underlying their distaste for the food. This
would feed into communication strategies aimed at changing the behaviours, attitudes and
practices on the family level, especiallytargeting women and children who are the most
vulnerable to anaemia. Partneringwith women's organizations, CBOs and NGOs such as the
Red Crescent Foundation and to provide education would aim to change attitudes towards
increased consumption of the available offals from the slaughterhouses.

                         Distribution of activities bv administrative entities
 Admirustrative       Noofslaughter        Capacity building .      Studyofl offal      Nutrition
     entities             houses                                    coasumption         edUCatiOn

Somaliland                  1                       6                      1              24
Puntland                    I                       6                      1              24
Central-south               0                       0                      0               0



                                                 24

Annex 3: Summaryof EstimatedProject Cost




                25

Annex 4: FinancialManagement(FM) Report

Introduction

1.      The Bank's FinancialManagementteam conducted a Financial Management (FM)
Assessment for the Somalia Support under the Global FoodResponse Program (GFRP)
Project. The International Development Association (IDA) o f the World Bank intends to make
a Grant o f US$7 millionto Somalia as emergency aid inalleviating the current Global food
crisis. The Project will be implementedby the FoodandAgriculture Organization o fthe
UnitedNations (FAO) over a period o f 2 years. FA0 i s already involved in administration of
food aidprojects to Somalia through NGOs and the target communities. The Bank will focus
onusingthe GFRP TF to meet short term needs, includinglivelihood support, inputsto
enhance foodproduction, support for cash for work programs that are being carriedout by
some NGOsdirected at enhancing productivity, such as irrigationand flood control
rehabilitation. A medium term response aimed at supporting food production could also be
initiated.

2.      The objective o f the assessmentwas to determine whether the implementing entity has
acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i)    the funds are used only
for the intended purposes inan efficient and economical way; (ii)  the preparation o f accurate,
reliable, and timely periodic financial reports; and (iii)
                                                        safeguard the entity's assets.

3.      The financial assessmentwas conducted adopting the Bank's modifiedprocedures for
FMassessments when anUNagency is the direct implementing entity, and takinginto
account the Financial Management Framework Agreement between the World Bank (WB)
and the UnitedNations (UN)dated March 10,2006.

ExecutiveSummary

4.      Financial Arrangements: The Financial Arrangements for this Project will be based on
the WorldBank/ UnitedNations FinancialManagementFramework Agreement (FMFA), to
which FA0 i s a signatory. FA0 will prepare its annual work program and budget and agree
this with the Bank. FA0will handleall the financial management aspects usingits own
procedures set out inthe FA0Financial Regulations. The funds will therefore be channeled
through FA0 which will act as boththe direct Recipient and the Project Implementing
Agency. FA0 shall have overall fiduciary responsibility over the Project. FA0 will maintain a
separateledger account for recording the transactions relating to this Project.

5.      Budget Arrangements: FA0 will prepare annual work plans and budget for the Project
and send to the Bank for review within one month from effectiveness and thereafter by no
later than December 15, each year. The annual project budget will be based on agreed annual
work program that will be closely monitored and reviewed duringimplementation.

6.      Financial Reporting and Audit Arrangements: As per the FMFA,the Bank's audit
requirements are met through the normalbiennium audit o fFAO, and separate audited
financial statements and audit reports from FA0 for the Project are not required. FA0 will
prepare and submit un-audited semi-annual financial reports (IFR) to the Bank within a period
o f45 days after the end o f the relevant semi-annual period ending June 30 and December 31,
inform andcontent satisfactoryto the Bank. The IFRwill consist ofa statement ofsources
and uses o f funds (by mainexpenditure classifications), opening and closing balances o f the
funds from the Bank; and actual andbudgetedexpenditures by component and/or activity
within component and explanations o fany variances, for the said semi-annual period and


                                              26

cumulatively for the project. It will also contain forecasts for the next 9 months. The format
o f these reports has been agreedbetweenthe Bank and FAO.

7.     Disbursement Arrangements: Advances will be made to an existing FA0 commercial
bank account. Expenditure reporting for advance disbursements from the Grant Account shall
bemade onthe basis o fthe IFR.Uponeffectiveness, funds willbe advancedto FA0 as
Recipientbased on 9 months forecasts to be submitted by FAO.Replenishmento f the
advances shall be based on Semester IFRswhich would also contain forecasts for the next 9
months. FA0 will maintain separateaccounting for advances and expenditures relatedto the
project.

8.     Financial ManagementRiskAssessment: Given the instabilityprevailing inthe
Country and the lack o f effective FMand administrative systems, the overall FMRiskRating
for the Project i s assessed as "substantial."

CountryAccountabilityIssues

9.      Somalia does not have a functioning central government and there are no reliable
country FMstructures. Due to the extended conflict situation inthe country which led to
earlier disengagement, the Bank has not carried out a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) or similar Financial Management (FM) related Economic and Sector
Work (ESW) inSomalia.

10.      Below are the risk analysis andmitigationmeasures taking into account FA0 systems.

                              Table 1: Summary of RiskAnalysis

           InherentRisk                 Risk       RiskMitigationMeasure            Residual
                                       Rating                                         Risk
                                                                                     rating
 CountryLevel
 Lack o f effective system due to      H
 war conditions and general
 instability.                                                                       H
 EntityLevel
 FA0 is aUNbody with
 adequate capacity and strong FM L                                                  L
 and operational systems and has
 been involved inmanagingthis
 kindofemergencyaidproject
 over several vear
 ProjectLevel:                                                                     I

 Project will be implemented           H                                            H
 through NGOs and target
 communities and these lack
 capacity interms o f qualified
 staff and resources. The conflict
 conditions and the highstate o f
 insecurity will compromise FM
 arrangements and create


                                              27

challenges inproject
implementation


OverallInherentRisks:             H     I                                 S
ControlRisk:

Budgeting

FA0willprepare annualbudgets L                                            L
and work plans
Fund Flows
                                         Use o freport-based IFRmethod
Project design simple with few     S     o f disbursement will further    M
components. FA0 acts as both             enhance the flow o f funds by
Recipient and Implementing               having 9 months advance and
Agency. However, flow o f funds          replenishment every 6 months.
withinthe Country may create
challenges.
Accounting

FAO's accounting systems will      S                                      S
be used. However, accounting
for the Project at Country level
may be adversely affected by
prevailing Country conditions.
For example it may be difficult
to get timely, accurate and
complete accounting records
from the field
Financial Reporting

FA0 is deemedto have robust        S     FA0to conduct capacity building M
systems that will support                training for NGO's and selected
effective financial reporting.           communities on simplified
Financial reportingby way o f            accountingreports. Format o f IFR
halfyearly IFR. However, delays          agreedbetween the Bank and
ingettingreturns from the field          FA0
could affect the timeliness and
completeness                           I
Internal Controls (including
Internal Audit):
                                   S                                      S
FAO's internal control systems
and procedures will be used.
FAO's internal audit function
will be used to audit the project.
However, their scope may be
limiteddue to prevailing
Country conditions
ExternalAudit


                                      28

 As per the FMFA,the Bank's         L        l
 audit requirements will be met                                                      L
 through the normalbiennium
 audit of FAO.We have reviewed
 the biennial audited financial
 statements for FA0 for the years
 2002/03 and the report was
 unqualified, butpointed out
 some weaknesses.
 Overall Control Risk               S         I                                      M
 OverallFMRisk                      S         I                                      M


Strengths and Weaknesses

Strengths:FA0 i s a UNbody and has developedadequate capacity to effectively implement
the Project. Ithas robust systems and i s engaged insimilar such initiatives as its core business.

Weaknesses:Similar to other conflict countries, the general overall fiduciary environment in
Somalia i s very weak. The FMstructures are weak or nonexistent and the general insecurity
and instabilityinthe country may disruptproject implementation.




                                             29

Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements


A. General

1.       For the FoodPrice Crisis ResponseTrust Fund(Under GFRP), procurement o f goods
and works and selection o f consultants would be carried out inaccordance with the
procurement procedures o f FAO, and the provisions stipulated inthe Grant Financing
Agreement.

2.       Inthe implementationofallactivities, the FA0procurementprocedures will be
applicable inplace o f the Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines and the Bank will not
exercise its regular procurement oversight through post andprior review. To mitigate any
risks, the Bank will conduct intensified supervision o f the outcome and results o f the project.
Inaddition, the GrantAgreement betweenthe BankandFA0will containalternative
provisions to the Bank standard clauses regarding audit, fraud and corruption consistent with
provisions insimilar legal agreementsbetween the Bank and other UNagencies.

3.       The various itemsunder different expenditure categories to be financed are described
below. For each contract to be financedby the Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and schedule are agreedbetween FA0 and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual
program implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

4.       Procuremento f Works: Works expected to be procured under the program may
include small infrastructure at community level includingfeeder roads, water reservoirs,
slaughterhouses and auxiliary facilities, rehabilitation o f irrigationcanals, etc. Procurement
will be done usingsimplifiedbiddingdocuments, standard Request for quotations or Direct
Procurementinaccordance with the provisions o f the FA0 ProcurementManual.

5.      Procurement o f Goods: Goods procured under the program would include (i)           hand
tools, materials, protective clothing, etc under the employment generation strategies that
would lead to provisionof services that have public value, (ii)    seeds, fertilizers, tools,
spraying equipment, harvesting equipment, simple storage facilities, etc. The proceeds o f the
GFRP TF maybe for procurement inputsto activities relatingto improvement ofchild
nutrition levels.

6.      Selection o f Consultants: Consultancy services include the technical assistanceand
training services that couldbe provided to support local authority institutions, and income
generationactivities under Grant to communities. It will also include the hiring o f individual
consultants to provide TA and training, NGOs to manage the implementation processeson the
ground, and firms to provide necessary inputs.For all contracts, selection o f consultants will
be carried out inaccordance with the applicable FA0 rules.

7.      Rapidresponse procedures. Inresponse to the new Framework for Rapid Response to
Crisis and Emergencies, and to facilitate program implementation and quick delivery o f
results, the authority to approve and sign contracts will be delegated to FA0 Somalia country
office and its local offices, where appropriate, to the application o f the following:
    0   For Works: Using rapidprocurement methods (direct procurement or simple
        quotations) for engagingthe services o f qualified Agencies or civil works contractors


                                              30

         already mobilized and working inemergency area; Using lists o f pre-qualified
         contractors with good track record to whom periodic invitations are issued. The pre-
         qualification document may use a simplifiedformat; extending contracts issued under
         existing programs for similar activities by increasingtheir corresponding contract
         amounts.
     0   For Goods: Usingrapidprocurement methods (direct and emergency procurement or
         simple quotations) for engagingthe services o f qualified Agencies (including
         UN's)/programs and/or suppliers o f goods; usinglists o f pre-qualified suppliers with
         good track record to whom periodic invitations are issued. The pre-qualification
         document may use a simplified format; Extending contracts issued under existing
         programs for similar activities by increasing their corresponding contract amounts.
     0   For Consultants: The use o f a "pool o f experts" or a list o f "pre-selected' consulting
         firms and/or individuals may, therefore, be an appropriatemethod for supporting
         program implementation. Such a method will remain consistent with FA0
         Procurement Manual. Firmsalready working inthe area and which have a proven
         track record insimilar assignments may be the most suitable.

8.       TrainingandWorkshops: Training will be carried out onthe basis o f approved
yearly programs. The programs will identify the general framework o f training and
similar activities for the year, including the nature and objectives o f training and
workshops as they relate to the program objectives.

9.       OperationCosts: Inaddition, the programwill finance programimplementation-
related expenditures such as in-country travel, per diem, office supplies, office rentals,
utilities, maintenance, consumables, communication costs, etc. These will be procured in
accordance with FA0 applicable rules.

B. Assessment of the FA0 Capacityto ImplementProcurement

10.      The implementing Agency for GFRP TF i s FA0 with the overall responsibility (a)
assuring steady progress o f the procurement inaccordance with an implementation schedule
reviewed and approvedby the World Bank; and (b) ensuring satisfactory implementation o f
procurement activities included inall contracts.

11.      This Agency was selected becauseo f its extensive experience inand support to food
productivity under emergency circumstances and under normal situations. FA0 Somalia
Country Office and its technical staff are based inNairobi. Ithas also local offices and staff
that are charged with the responsibilities o f discharging and supervising ongoing activities in
Somaliland and Puntland.

12.      Inthe implementationofthe entire program, the FA0procurementprocedures will be
applicable and the Bank will not exercise its regular procurement oversight through post and
prior review. However, the Bank will conduct intensified supervision o f the outcome and
results o f the program. Inaddition, the Grant Agreement between the Bank and FA0 will
contain alternativeprovisions to the standard ones regardingaudit, fraud and corruption
consistent withprovisions insimilar legal agreements between the Bank and FAO.

13.     ProcurementPlan: As partofthe preparationofthe first year Work planofGFRP
TF, FA0will prepare and, before loannegotiations, furnishto the Bank for its approval, a
ProcurementPlan setting forth: (a) the particular contracts for the goods, works, and/or
services required to carry out the program duringthe initial period o f at least 18 months; (b)
the proposedmethods for procurement.

                                               31

14.     ProcurementImplementationReports:Not later thanthree months after the
end o f each semester, FA0will submit to the Bank a procurement implementation
progress report. The report would cover, including but not limitedto, physical
completion o f procurement activities as well status o f contracts under implementation
and relatedactual expenditures on a contract-by-contract basis. The format and content o f
Procurement ImplementationReports will be agreedbetween the Bank and FA0 within one
month o f effectiveness.

15.     Fraudand Corruption:Allprocuringas well as bidders andservice providers, i.e.
suppliers, contractors and consultants shall observe the highest standard o f ethics duringthe
procurement and execution o f contracts financed.




                                             32

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


 1.      This GlobalFoodResponse Program (GFRP) Trust Fund(TF) i s to address the food
crisis inSomalia by supporting intervention directed at improving food security, rural income
and livelihoods. The IDA team worked closely with FA0 Somalia staff on the preliminary
drafts o f the project document.

2.       FA0 Somaliahas along-standing relationshipwith several donors andNGOs (both
international and local) inSomalia. FA0 through its Nairobi-based office will assume other
implementation and coordination o fthe project inpartnership with NGOs. Potential
implementing partners active inthe project area include: Water for Life, Agrosphere, CARE,
CEFA, CONCERN, COOPI, VSF-S, VSF-G, the Universityo fNairobi and several LNGOs
(Candelight, Penha, Saredo, Somali veterinarian association, SAGRA, SATG, AWFAQI and
others).

3.       FA0will rely on existing logistics, coordination andmonitoringmechanisms and
systems. It has inplace for the implementation o f the program. FA0 has Offices inHargeisa,
Bosasso, Garowe, Jowhar andjoint office with WFP inMerka inthe Lower Shabeelle region.
The FA0 Emergency Operations for Somalia will manage the grant and supervise and
monitor the project through partnership with international and localNGOswith a strong
operational presence inproject areas. FA0 will also partner with existing, proven and, if
necessary, new partners to implement the project.

4.      The agreement between FA0 and participatingNGOswill spell out the conditions
under which these participating agencies receivetransfer offunds, including suspension
clause. This would include, amongst others, obligations for FA0to make available M& E
reviews, annual reports, audit reports. The project will be implemented within a period o f two
years from date o f approval.

5.      The proposedproject will not create new implementing units at the country level.
However, given the need for effective coordination o f the implementation o f the various
components o f the project and the challenges presented by the limited capacity within
ministries and departments, a full-time Project Coordinator (PC) will be recruited on a
competitiveness basis (following FA0 recruitment procedures) to be responsible for the day-
to-day management o f the project. The project manger will be technically supported by the
FA0 sectoral unitsbasedinNairobiandbythe relevant technical divisions at H Q level

6.      FAO's specific responsibilities for the project implementation include: (i)  monitoring
and ensuring full implementation o f the program agreed under the project; (ii)  submitting
quarterly progress reports to IDA; (iii)  developing an Operational Plan to guarantee
sustainability after closing date; (iv) conducting a Mid-Term Review o f project progress
within 3 months from the close o fthe first project year; (v0 implementing the ESMFand
PMP; and (vi) preparing an Implementation Completion Report (ICR).

7.      The role o f the PC will be: (i) to release funds against agreed work plans; (ii)
                                                                                        ensure
that the institutions utilizing project funds set upproper accounting system and maintain
proper accounts, and promptly claim reimbursementsfrom FAO; (iii)        coordinate project
activities; (iv) monitor and evaluate the project as a whole to ensure effective
implementation; and (v) periodically holdmeetings at selected places inthe project area to
review the progress made and problems encountered inthe implementation o f the project and



                                                33

to agree with implementing agencies on a work plan. He will also mobilizetechnical
assistanceand assist with procurement where needed.

8.      Monitoringand Evaluation.MonitoringandEvaluationactivitieswillbe designedto
document project outcomes and intermediary results and to provide information for assessing
the outcomes and impacts o f the project as shown inthe result framework. FA0 will have the
primary responsibility for the project's M&Eand will monitor progress against agreed upon
performance monitoringindicators, and submit semi-annual reports on such progress. The
project Manager will review reports and prepare a comprehensive report for the project on a
quarterly basis. The Nutrition Surveillance Project within FAO's Food Security Analysis Unit
will play an important role inmonitoringand assessingthe successo finterventions carried
out under the proposedproject.

9.      Socio-economic data will be gathered at the community level duringthe project start-
upphase andtowards the endo fthe project.

 10.    Reporting.Based onthe M&Esystem, FA0will produce semi-annual and annual
reports onproject implementation. Annual progress reports (including financial and
procurement status reports) will be established onthe basis o f the project implementation
plan. FA0 will inform IDA on semi-annual basis on activity implementation progress and use
o f funds, with all relevant documents. Successful implementation of the project will require
joint and regular supervision o f activities by IDA and FAO.

11.     Sustainability. Sustainability ofthe project components supported bythe proposed
project will be through capacity buildingof the beneficiaries. By design, the project will be
implementedthrough the beneficiaries who will be trained and facilitated to continue with the
activities after the end of the project.

12.     Sustainability will also be achieved through: (i)   focusing on capacity buildingo f local
resource services and producers; (ii)  recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role o flocal
producer and community organizations to organize, promote, monitor and assess
implementation; and (iii)   utilizing existing institutional structures to implement project
activities and deliver outputs. Additionally, the project will fund community-based sub-
projects, including some community infrastructure.




                                                34

                              Annex 7: The Challenge of the Crisis
CountryContext

1.      Since 1991 Somalia has not functioned as a unitary state. The northern areas
controlled by Somaliland and Puntland are relatively peaceful and more secure, however, the
dispute between the two respective authorities over the control and take-over o f the So01and
Eastern SanaagRegions remains a source o f instability.Both authorities claim that they have
the loyalty o f the population inthe two regions, a fact that can only be verifiedby a
referendum, which would not be feasible ifthe conflict continues and reconciliation is not
achieved. Recent efforts at restoring political and economic stabilityhave recognizedthat
progress i s closely tied to acknowledging andunderstandingthe regional contexts o f Somalia..

2.      The north-western regiono f Somaliland, a former Britishprotectoratewhich had opted
for unification with ItalianSomaliland in 1960, unilaterally declaredits independence from
Somalia in 1991. It comprises five o fthe eighteen administrative regions o f Somalia. A
bicameral legislature, made up o f an elected House o f Representatives (HoR) and a
traditional, clan-based Councilo f Elders (Guurti) incorporated into the governance structure
as the upper house, oversees an executive headedby an elected President. Largely under its
own steam, Somalilandhas made considerable progress towards stabilization and
democratization.

3,      The north-eastern region followed Somaliland's example in 1998 with the creation o f
the semi-autonomous "Puntland State o f Somalia". Itcomprises three o f the eighteenregions
o f Somalia. Puntland does not seek international recognition as an independent state, but
advocates a federal Somalia inwhich it would exist as an autonomous entity. The region also
boasts its own constitution, political institutions and armed forces, and conducts its own
foreign and trade policies. The SouthKentral region i s the most unstable currently.
Historically, it is rural areas have been among the most agriculturally productive given the
bountiful supply o f water and good soils. However, it is the region where implementation o f
theproject will most likelyhavethe greatest challenges. Insouth-central Somalia there is no
effective central government level public sector finance management.

4.      Giventhe instabilityand the lack o fa central government it is no surprise that macro
economic data post 1990 i s very sparse and all data should be treated with caution. The health
and nutritioncondition is considered among the best indictors o f human development in
Somalia and the statistics are not encouraging. The structure o f the economy remains similar
to pre-1991, Agriculture production contributed some 64 percent o f GDP in 1991. The private
sector has, to a significant extent, mitigatedthe impact o f state collapse and war on the Somali
people. Diaspora contributions have played a central role inSomalia's economy and it i s
estimated that one third of these contributions i s for household survival, with the rest has been
destined to private investments.

5.      Remittances o f about $1 billion(0.8 billion) per year have assisted private sector
resilience, which, despite 15 years o f civil war, has seen a growth intrade and
communications and strong livestock exports. The private sector has thus partially filled the
gap ininfrastructure provisionleft by conflict and lack o f government, and has beeninvolved
inthe management ofvarious infrastructure facilities suchas roads, airstrips, ports, water
supply and sanitationandpower generation and supply.Public finances are extremely weak,
even inPuntland and Somaliland. The underlying strengths inthe economy are thus the
continuing strong livestock sector, supported by external financial flows and a strong
telecommunications sector.


                                               35

6.       The economic infrastructure comprises some 22,000 kmo f roads, four major ports and
15 air fields, four o f which have pavedrunways. Since the late 198Os, there has been little
investment or maintenance inthe roads network which i s now ina poor condition, with the
situation slightlybetter inthe Northern regions where some limited maintenance has
commenced under the Somaliland RoadAuthority and the Puntland HighwayAuthority.
There i s no national electricity gridor a legal and regulatory framework inplace; most energy
i s provided by the private sector from privately owned generators at a relatively local level.
Urbaninfrastructure also remains inpoor condition. However, some private suppliers o f
foodstuff, constructionmaterials are active, albeit operating inan unregulated framework.

7.       As part o fthe Recovery Strategy, the RDFrecognizes the different stages o f
development inthe country and has separate Regional Volumes that have beenvalidated
through a consultative process. The Regional Volumes take account o f the Somaliland and
Puntland Strategic Plans and reflect the consultations undertakeninJanuary 2007.

8.       The RDF supports a multilayered approach to development with institutions at
regional and sub regional levels to be developed and strengthened. At the same time local
community initiatives that fully involve all elements o f civil society will be encouraged and
supported. Iti s elaborated more fully as follows:
     0   Investinginpeople through improved social services (especially education, health,
         water and sanitation) to raise human skills, and actions to address the needs o f specific
         vulnerable groups such as IDPs; and
     0   Establishinga sustainable enabling environment for rapidpoverty-reducing
         development, to expand employment and reduce poverty. This includes investment in
         socio economic infrastructure and maintenance, policies and actions to overcome
         constraints facing the livestock and agriculture sectors and to ensure protection of the
         environment and sustainable use of natural resources.




                                              36

                 Annex 8: ProjectPreparationandAppraisalTeamMembers

Name                            Title                                     Unit
Berhane Manna                   Sr. Agriculturist - Project TTL           AFTAR
DavidFreese                     Sr. Finance Officer                       LOAFC
Dahir Warsame                   Sr. Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Henry Amena Amuguni             Financial Management Specialist           AFTFM
Evarist Baimu                   Counsel                                   LEGAF
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt           Sr. Environmental Specialist              AFTEN
RonaldIsaacson                  Sr. Social Scientist                      AFTCS
MohamoodNoor                    Agricultural Consultant                   AFTAR
J.R. Deep Ford                  Sr. Economist                             FAO/IC
Graham Farmer                   FA0 Officer in-Charge for Somalia         FAO/Nairobi
Sergio Innocente                Agricultural Officer                      FAO/TCES
Massimo Castiello               Livestock Project Coordinator for Somalia FAO/TCES
Renato Marai                    ARDOPIS Project Coordinator for Somalia   FAO/TCES
Grainne Moloney                 Nutrition Project Manager                 FAO/FSAU
Almaz Teklesenbet               ProgramAssistant                          AFTAR




                                           37

               Annex 9: FoodPriceCrisisResponse(FPCR) Trust Fund(TF)


1.      Internationalprices o f rice and wheat have doubled inthe past 6 months, contributing
to higher prices for staple foods inmany developing country markets and causing severe
consumer hardships. The price o f inputsto food production such as fuel and fertilizers have
tripled since January 2007, aggravatingthe balance sheet o f smallholder producers who make
upthe vast majorityo fdeveloping country grainproducers and o fthe poor overall. Countries
needto pay the extra cost up front without necessarily reapingcommensurate output price
benefits on their small amounts o fmarketed surplus. There is an urgent need for rapid action
to alleviate the plight o f the poor inaccessing food, to assist clients with food policies to meet
new global conditions, and to facilitate a sustainable response o f developing country
agriculture to the opportunity o fhighprices inan inclusive manner.

2.      A trust fundwas established usingan initial allocationo f $50 millioninnet IBRD
income for the most vulnerable countries, to restructuringo f existing operations andnew
operations. The objectives o f the FPCR TF are thus to: (i)  reduce the negative impact o fhigh
food prices on the lives o f the poor ina timely way, (ii) governments inthe design o f
                                                           support
sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts o f more volatile food prices onpoverty,
(iii)provide a global financing mechanism for inclusive medium term growth inproductivity
and market participation inagriculture to ensure an adequate supplyresponse for sustained
improvement infood security.

3.      The initial approach i s to facilitate a rapidBank response with all available tools as
soon as possible, while supporting the evolving coordination role of the UnitedNations Task
Force on the GlobalFood Crisis established recently inBerne.




                                                38

                               Annex 10:         FA0Ongoing Projects

A. Emergency Interventions

1.      The projects includedunder this section are mainly funded inthe framework o f the UN
ConsolidatedAppeal (CAP) for Somalia 2007 and 2008. Briefly they include the following:
Rurallivelihoodssupport inthe ShabeelleValley (donor: NorwayCAP 2007)

2.      The project`s objective is to provide support to sustainablelivelihoods development inthe
highlypopulated riverine floodplainsofthe Shabeelleriver. Itaims at enhancing the capacity of a
private-public partnership to deliverveterinary services (surveillance, investigation, treatment,
vaccination) and initiate market-driven interventions that intensify integration of croppingand
livestock production, improve utilisation o fthe riverine fisheries resource, improve livestock
production and animal healthandmitigate the impact o f future shocks.

Strengthenemergencycoordinationmechanisms and informationand provisionof emergency
livelihoodservices (donor: Sweden CAP 2007)

3.      The Swedish Government respondedto the 2007 UNConsolidated Appeal for Somalia and
fundedthis project, primarilyfocused on food security, nutritionandinformationrelatedactivities in
Somalia. The project is also aimed at strengtheningemergency coordination mechanismsand
provision o f emergency livelihoodservices.

Rehabilitationof RuralInfrastructureand Support for PopulationsinFoodSecurity Crisis in
LowerShabeelleRegionof SouthernSomalia (donor: Sweden CAP 2007)

4.      This project is aimed at protectingthe livelihoods o fhouseholds ina state o f Humanitarian
Emergency or Acute Food and Livelihoods Crisis inthe Lower Shabeelleregion o f southern Somalia
through rehabilitation o f important rural production infrastructure (irrigation canals, water catchments
andruralfeeder roads) on a cashfor work basis, to facilitaterecovery for ruralpopulations duringthe
2008 "Gu" cropping season, and provide support duringthe subsequent dry season through an
increasedcapacity for water storage.

Support to PastoralCommunities on Livelihood RiskReduction(donor: ItalyCAP 2007)

5.      Inorder to strengthenthe capacity ofpastoral andagro-pastoral communities to copewith
shocks affecting their livelihoods, the project i s increasing the availability o f water points for
livestock, augmenting the availability o f good quality veterinary drugs andincreasing the capacity o f a
private-public partnershipto deliver veterinary services (surveillance, investigation, treatment,
vaccination, improvedanimal healthandinspection) inorder to mitigate the impact o f future shocks
andenhancelivestock andpublic healthprotection.

Support to PastoralCommunities on LivelihoodRiskReduction(donor: Italy CAP 2008)

6.      PhaseI1o f the on-going project hasjust been approvedby the ItalianGovernment andthe
content o f the project inbeingdefined.

Support to the ConsolidatedAppeal for Somalia (donor: SwedenCAP 2008)

7.      Over US$2.5 million havejust beenallocated by the Swedish Government insupport o fthe
CAP 2008. The content o fthe project, coveringvarious CAP profiles, is beingdefined.




                                                    39

Livelihoodandfood securitysupportfor mostvulnerable householdsin SouthernSomalia
(donor: EC-ECHO)

8.       The main objective o f this project i s to increase household income and contribute to
improve the food security o f secondary displacedIDPs inSouthern Somalia through the
provisiono f agricultural inputs(seeds andtools), animals, boats and fishing. The target
beneficiaries are destitute IDPs displacedby the conflict inMogadishu and returningto the
areas o f origin inthe areas o f Mudug, Galgadud and Hiran, whose livelihoodi s based on
agriculture, livestock and fisheries.

Protection,reintegrationand resettlementof IDPs inBosaso(donor: Japan throughUNHSTF)

9.       This i s ajoint UNprogram, implementedby UNDP, UN-Habitat, UNHCR and
UNICEF, that aims to improve human security and living standards andprovide durable
solutions for reintegrationandresettlement o f IDPs and returnees inBosaso. FA0 has the
overall leadership among UNagencies for livelihoods recovery inPuntland. Through its
partnership with the Danish Refugee Council (DRC), FAO's activities will focus on
livelihood support and skills development.

B. Livestock

Supportto pastorallivelihooddevelopment in northern and centralSomalia(donor: EC)

10.      This project aims at improvingthe livelihoods o f the pastoral communities by
strengthening the meat sector and promotes the introduction o f Somali meat products,
compliant with regional sanitary and food safety standards, to domestic and regional
wholesale markets. Iti s implemented inpartnership with the NGO VSF-Germany, meat
processors/exporters and associated industryoperators and public institutions. The following
results are expected:
     0   Legal, regulatory and institutional framework for meat safety and quality developed,
         adopted and enforced;
     0   Public sector institutions to effectively addressmarket access and consumer safety o f
         Somali domestic and export livestock products;
     0   Internationally recognized food safety and quality assurancepractices applied and
         monitored at all levels o f the production and export chain;
     0   Somali meat and meat products better positioned inthe internationalmarket.

Supportto the SomaliMeat Export (donor: Leagueof Arab States throughUNDP)

11.      The project, implementedinpartnership with UNDP and AOAD (Arab Organization
for Agricultural Development) i s complementary to the EC-funded one and has the same
objective to promote Somali meat trade, through setting up a Quality Assurance system
according to international standards and upgrade the skills o f the export meat operators to
ensure safety and quality o f the Somali meat. The project, implemented inpartnership with
UNDP and AOAD (Arab Organization for Agricultural Development) i s complementary to
the EC.

SomaliAnimal Health Servicesproject(SAHSP Phase2) (donor: EC)

12.      This project aims to strengthen the capacity o f the Somali communities, public and
private sector institutions to better manage risks associated with trade limitinganimal diseases
o f a transboundary nature. The main activities include the provisiono f training, technical and


                                                40

financial support to enable Somali communities and institutions to undertake surveillance,
diseasereporting and early warning and the establishment o f preparedness and response
systems to outbreaks o f some priority animal diseases. The project, under the leadingrole o f
Terra Nuova, i s implemented inpartnership with COOPI, UNA, and VSF-G.

4 Irrigationand crop diversification
  -

Agriculturalrehabilitationand diversificationof highpotentialirrigationschemes in
southern Somalia (ARDOPIS)inMerka and Qoryooley districts and inJamama, Afgoi
and Baladdistricts (donor: EC)

13.      These two projects are funded by the EuropeanCommission withinthe SFA - Special
Framework o f Assistance for traditional ACP (Africa, Caribbeanand Pacific) countries. They
aim at rehabilitating irrigationsystems inMerka and Qoreyooley districts along the Shabelle
River and inselected areas o f Jamama, Afgoi and Balad districts within the Juba and lower
Shabelle river basins, through farmer organisations and development o f sustainable, market
oriented farming. Market and flood warning information i s shared with farmers to ensure that
appropriate action i s taken. Capacities o f localorganizations are developed for input supply,
marketing and other support services. An innovative aspect o f this and the following project i s
the role playedby the NGO implementingpartners who will take the lead inimplementation
o f field activities.

Supportto the sustainablemanagementof the Shabelle andJuba Rivers insouthern
Somalia (donor: EC)

14.     Complementary to the activities o f the ongoing SWALIMproject and the irrigation
projects inthe Shabelle and Juba river basins, this EC-funded project intends to collect,
analyze and spread essential baseline data for river management as well as to repair crucial
gates at sevenbarrages and provide training to communities on their proper use and
maintenance. This is expected to lead to implementation o f an operational flood warning and
forecasting system. Finally, the project will create greater awareness among key stakeholders
o f requirements for effective river basin management. Because o f the close links with the
SWALIM activities, this project is managedbythe same team as the SWALIMproject.

Irrigation,consolidationand developmentof better farmingsystemsinthe middleand
lower catchmentsof the Dur-Dur Watershed, Awdal region, Somaliland (donor: EC)

15,     The intervention provides support to communities engaged inirrigatedhorticulture,
through infrastructure rehabilitation and construction, training on improved farming activities
and enhancement o fmarketing to contribute to strengthen and diversify livelihoods at
household level. With focus on increasingrural-based incomes through improvedagricultural
production, a strong capacity buildingcomponent i s incorporatedto improve the technical and
management capacities o f local authorities, communities and farmers organisations. The
project i s implementedby FA0 inpartnership with the DanishRefugee Council (DRC), and
Cooperazione Italiana (COOPI).

C. FarmerAssistance and PrivateEnterpriseDevelopment

Consolidationof integratedpest managementinitiativein Somalia (donor: EC)

16.     The objective o f this project -implemented inpartnership with the NGO UNA-
Consortium - i s to increase householdproduction and income through increased crop yield

                                               41

and reduction o fpost-harvest lossesby the introduction o f integratedpest management (IPM).
The project i s developing relevant training packages for knowledge transfer to staffo fNGOs
and Institutions active inthe sector. Iti s continuing the work done duringthe previous phases
o f the UNA Integrated Pest Management Project inSomalia (phases 1and 2), particularly at
farmer level, with extensive further training focusing mainly on smallholder farmers.

Improvementand sustainableuse of seeds and plant geneticresourcesprogram(donor:
EC)

17.      This project aims at strengthening livelihoods at household level, improving food
security and income levelby increasing the householdproduction. Iti s supporting the seed
sector inSomalia and is implementedbyFA0 inpartnership with the NGOsAgrosphere and
CINS and inclose collaboration with community leaders and local institutions. The objective
i s to increase seed security and allow farming households to access adequate quantities o f
quality seeds and planting materials o f adapted crop varieties for each and every growing
season ina timely manner, within an acceptable distance, at affordable prices and inrapid
response to natural or man-made calamities. Therefore, it aims also at improvingthe market
system and storage quality by increasing the qualification o f producers and at enhancingthe
qualification o f emerging local authorities through training and links with farmerdtraders.

Assistanceto privateenterprise development in Somalia (donor: Denmark)

18.      FA0is closely working with ILO inthis three-year program that willprovide inputsto
enable an immediate and positive response to the prevailing crisis o f the private sector by
improvinginfrastructure, livelihoods and employment. The program will initially focus on
Somaliland and Puntland, where relative peace and stabilityhave prevailed for a decade,
thereby providing the conditions to support sustainable relief-development transitional
interventions.

19.      Inadditionto creatingshortto medium-term employment opportunities andinjecting
cash into fragile local economies, while providinginfrastructure and services, the program
will stimulate localmarkets and lay foundations for economic recovery bycontributing to the
creation o fpermanent employment and livelihoodopportunities indiversified and growing
value chains and related service enterprises. The program will support capacity buildingat all
levels to enable the process o f local ownership and implementation o fprojects. This will
include inputs for developing public-private partnerships and strengtheninggovernment and
community capacities to facilitate sound economic recovery and development planning and
coordination.




                                              42

               Annex 11:Listof ProjectFile/SupportingDocuments


1. World Bank, 2006. SomaliaCountry Economic Memorandum. January 11,2006.
    Report No. 3435640.
2. Somali -JNA DocumentsandData ResourceCentre. About 400 Reports:
    http://www.somali-
   jna.ordindex.cfm?Module=Active Web&Paae= WebPaae&s=documentation
3. EU, 2005. "EC Strategy for the Implementationof Special Aid to Somalia: An
4. Assessment ofthe Political and Social Situation." http://www,delken.cec.eu.int/.
5. EC (European Commission). European Commission Strategy for the Implementation
    of Special Aid to Somalia, 2002-2007.
6. The Economist Intelligence Unit2004. Somalia: Country Profile, London, UK.
7. Eurata, Banana sector study for Somalia. Strategyfor agricultural development and
    diversijkation in Lower Shabeelle, Nairobi, European Commission/Somali Unit,
    November 2003.
8. FAO. 1999-2002. Food Security Analysis Unitfor Somalia, Food Economy Baseline
9. FA0 Food Security Analysis Unit for Somalia, Food Economy Baseline Surveys,
    2001-2002.
10.FAO, World Bank and EuropeanUnion 2004. Somalia: Towards a Livestock Sector
    Strategy.
11. FAO. 2005a. Desert Locust Bulletin No. 323, September 2005. FAO, Rome.
12. FAO. 2005b. FieldReport: SecondAssessment Mission. Project
    OSRO/SOM/501/NOR,
13,OSRO/SOM/503/ITA, OSRO/SOM/505/CHA. May 18-June 6. FA0 Somalia
14. Program. FAO, Rome.
15. FAO, 2005c. "Fisheries Sector Review Identification MissionReport." FAONorld
    Bank
16. Cooperative Program, September.Investment Centre Division, FAO, Rome.
17. FAO. 2005d. Post-TsunamiAssessment Mission to Central and SouthernCoast of
18. Somalia, June 26-August 8. FAO, Rome.
19. FAO/Food Security Analysis Unit(FSAU).2001. Structural Vulnerability
    Workshop
20. Environmental Degradationinthe Haud.November 22-23. Warsidaha Qaybta
21. Soomaaliya, tirsi lam. 5, Nairobi.
22. FAO/FSAU, 2008. 2007/2008 Post Deyr Analysis. Technical Series: Report No.
    V.14, March7, 2008
23. FAO/EC. 2004. SomaliaWater andLandInformation ManagementSystem
    (SWALIM),
24. Phase 11.July 15,2004. FAO, Rome.
25. FAO/EU/World Bank. 2004. "Somalia: Towards A Livestock Sector Strategy." Report
   No. 04/001 IC-SOM. 29 April. FAO, Rome.




                                       43

                                      Annex 12: Somalia at a Glance
                                                                                                         9/28/01




                                                     32        2.4
                                                     3.1       2.1



                                                      36       M
                                                      48       47
                                                     f33        Be
                                                      33        30
                                                      a                       Access to improvedwater sotme
                                                                50
                                                               19
                                                      17       92
                                                               QB
                                                                811)


                                                    19%       2905    2005


                                                                                         Tnde

                                                                                            T
                                          -13.5
                                             R4
                                          193.5
                                           532



                                                    2ooJ      2906




                                          19-86     1996      2005

                                           82.4
                                           1D.t
                                             5.5
                                           27.5


                                           29.4

                                        1986-96 139606        2M15




                                                                          I                                     I

Note.2006daia are preliminaryestmales.
Ths tawe was pmduadfmm &e Devolo(wnwutE ~ r i n cu341database.
                                                 s
'ThedtamrndsshowfmvkeymdcaacKsnhewun\rl(inhid)axnpaedwithitstncome-gmupaver-  lrdataare masng, kd m m d mll
 b e m p w c




                                                        44

      2006


         3
      455


         3
         3




                   E 333'

        3   3 -
        3   B-
        3   c -
        3
        3
        3




45


Mapsection


                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 33483


                                                                    SOMALIA
                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                  MAIN ROADS

                                   REGION CAPITALS                                                                            RAILROADS

                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                           REGION BOUNDARIES

                                   RIVERS                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



        40E                        ERITREA           REP. OF         45E                                                                       50E
                                                      YEMEN
                                                                                                                                                                         REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                         YEMEN
                                                                                                              Aden                                   Caluula
                     To
                     To             DJIBOUTI                                                    of
                     Des
                     Des                                          Gulf
                                                     Saylac
                                                                                                       Maydh                         D h    Boosaaso
                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                     Surud Ad                            r o  o
                                                                                                    (2,408 m )       Mts.                      r
                                               AWDAL                                                                   Ceerigaabo                 V all
                                                                           Bullaxaar                   Madow                                           eHurdiyo
                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                                Xaafuun
                                                 Baki
10N                                                 WOQOOYI                                      Cay                                           B A R I
                                                                                                          S A N A A G                    Kar    Kar  Mts.                  10N
                                                       GALBEED
                                                                        Burao                                                              Qardho
                        To
                        To                                                                                  Garadag                                          Bandarbeyla
                      Addis                             Hargeysa
                      Ababa
                                                                    TOGDHEER                                    S O O L

                                                                                                               Laascaanood         Garoowe
                                                                                                                                    NUGAAL
                                                                                                                                                  Eyl


                   E T H I O P I A

                                                                                                                        Gaalkacyo
                                                                                                                         M U D U G

                                                                                                                                        Hilalaya
                                To
                                To
                                Imi
                                                                                                      Dhuusa
                                                                                                      Mareeb
               To
               To                                                                                                                  Hobyo
               Kibre                                                                            GALGUDUUD
5N           Mengist                                                        Ferfer                                                                                          5N
                                                                              Beledweyne
                                                  BAKOOL                                                Ceel Buur

                                                       Xuddur        H I R A A N
                                        Luuq                        Buulobarde                                                                        I N D I A N

                             Garbahaarey              Baydhabo                         habeelle
                                                                                      S        SHABEELLAHA                                            O C E A N
                           G E D O                                                                 DHEXE
                                                   Buurhakaba     Wanlaweyn         Jawhar         Cadale
                                                 B AY
                                     Baardheere
                          JUBBADAJuba                                             MOGADISHU
                                                                              BANAADIR
                           DHEXE
       To
       To                                           SHABEELLAHAMarka
                                                         HOOSE
    Mado Gashi

  K E N YA                                 Bu'aale         Baraawe
                                               r
                             Bilis     Jilib  i
                            Qooqaani       d                                                                                                          SOMALIA
                                       a
0                        JUBBADA            Jamaame                                                                                                                          0
         To
         To                          n
       Nairobi             HOOSE e         Kismaayo               0      50     100            150 200 Kilometers

                                  B
                                                                  0           50                100    150 Miles

                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


        40E                                                          45E                                                                       50E

                                                                                                                                                                     NOVEMBER 2004

