                        Document of
                      The World Bank


                                                     Report No: 70716 v1




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                           ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                             OF
SME FINANCING AND DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT
                           LOAN
                        March 30, 2009


                          TO THE

        SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA

                        June 27, 2012
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




      CF          Credit Facility
      CIBIL       Credit Information Bureau of India Limited
      CGTMSE      Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Small & Medium Enterprises
      DEA         Department of Economic Affairs
      DfID        Department for International Development
      DFS         Department of Financial Services
      ESMF        Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
      FIs         Financial Institutions
      ISRs        Implementation Status and Results
      NBFC        Non Banking Finance Company
      NPL         Non Performing Loans
      PDO         Project Development Outcome
      RSF         Risk Sharing Facility
      SIDBI       Small Industries Development Bank of India
      SME         Small and Medium Enterprises
      SMERA       Small and Medium Enterprises Rating Agency
      TA          Technical Assistance




Regional Vice President:                     Isabel Guerrero
Country Director:                            Roberto Zagha
Sector Manager/Director:                     Ivan Rossignol/Sujata Nitin Lamba
Task Team Leader:                            Niraj Verma
Co-Task Team Leader:                         Gabi Afram
                                         2
                          INDIA
SME FINANCING & DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT
P086518

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 6




                                                                  3
 SME FINANCING & DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT
                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.     The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) is implementing the
Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Financing and Development Additional Financing
Project (US$400 million), following successful closure of the original project (US$120
million) in 2009. For the additional financing project, SIDBI, with the approval of the
Department of Financial Services (DFS) and the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA),
has requested an extension by one year from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2013. The main
reason for seeking an extension of the closing date is to allow for time to implement the
risk sharing facility (RSF, Component 2) of the project, which had been delayed on
primarily on account of lack of budgeting, a factor outside of SIDBI’s control. In
addition, another factor was that in the initial phase of project implementation, SIDBI’s
almost exclusive focus was on post-global financial crisis liquidity support to SMEs
(Credit Facility, Component 1) as at the time, lending to SMEs from banks had almost
dried up fully. Now that a budget allocation has been made and SIDBI has intimated the
Bank that release of funds to CGTMSE is expected shortly, this paper proposes to
proceed with the extension together with a small reallocation of proceeds from the
unallocated portion to the Credit Facility that will enable completion of this otherwise
well performing project.

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      Background: The implementation of the initial project (2005-2009) was
satisfactory and the objectives of expanding access to long term finance to SMEs and
improving the quality of lending to SMEs were achieved. Both the Bank funded
components of the Credit Facility (CF) and RSF were implemented successfully. In
particular the CF led to scaling up and demonstration of good quality, long term lending
to SMEs with an average tenor of over five years – this had been a major constraint faced
by SMEs at the start of the project. The RSF, by sharing part of the risk of lending to
SMEs with banks, was intended to incentivize banks to increase their exposure to this
underserved market segment. The RSF implemented by the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust
for SMEs (CGTMSE) successfully demonstrated a pilot, good practice design of a
guarantee facility. This in turn, contributed to some design improvements in the
Government’s and SIDBI’s larger guarantee product, also managed by CGTMSE,
particularly in terms of an improvement in dealing with adverse selection risks. This
component therefore had an impact that was sector-wide, since it influenced some
changes in the design of the main guarantee product offered for SMEs in the country. In
addition, the project’s third component, a Department for International Development
(DfID) funded technical assistance (TA) component has contributed to market
infrastructure development especially in areas of credit information and cluster
development.

3.    Progress: The additional financing project (2009-present) has the same
components as the initial project. The development objective of the additional loan is to
                                           4
improve Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) access to finance (including term finance)
and business development services, thereby fostering SME growth, competitiveness and
employment creation. In line with the objectives of the additional financing, the project
has been successful in extending the geographical coverage including in under-served
states, scaling down to smaller SMEs, and broadening the menu of existing products such
as term-loans, working capital loans and receivables financing and innovative products
with features of reverse factoring. As the additional project was in part a response to the
global financial crisis, through disbursements in 2009-10 it provided much needed
liquidity to credit starved SMEs and contributed to signaling to the financing market, that
engaging with potentially viable SMEs in the time of the downturn, could be undertaken
sustainably. The project has also helped improve asset quality, risk management and
lending practices particularly in SIDBI, but also in other participating financial
institutions. Development impact as measured through the project’s key performance
indicators continues to remain encouraging. Credit growth rate has exceeded targets by a
wide margin and has been achieved, while maintaining profitability above 1%. Return on
Assets and loan quality is better than what was targeted (net NPLs being 0.26% versus a
target of 3%). On the basis of these positive outcomes, it is expected that the Project
Development Outcome (PDO) will be achieved.

4.     In addition, under the CF component, both direct financing by SIDBI and
refinancing of other financial institutions (FIs) took place. Refinancing was undertaken
through an innovative non-banking finance company (NBFC) lending to SMEs in
Rajasthan and other states and a public sector bank. Refinancing has helped spread the
impact and good practices of the project through FIs other than SIDBI.

5.      There are no pending financial management or audit issues. Particularly notable
has been the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
(ESMF) for lending to SMEs which is now being adopted by some other banks and FIs as
well, enabling a sector influence beyond the project.

6.      Progress on the multi-donor funded TA has achieved significant outcomes
especially with regard to enhancing market infrastructure on credit information (support
for India’s leading credit bureau, Credit Information Bureau of India Limited, CIBIL, and
largest SME focused rating agency, the SME Rating Agency, SMERA) and piloting
innovating cluster development initiatives.

7.      However, progress in the implementation of the RSF has been slow, on account of
lack of budgeting for Government contribution into the CGTMSE which is implementing
the RSF. Such contribution is necessary and has to be a precursor to funding
contributions from SIDBI to CGTMSE (Government and SIDBI fund CGTMSE in the
ratio of 4:1 respectively), which is what the project supports. SIDBI has confirmed that
initial budget allocation has now been made and hence SIDBI has requested for an
extension of the project by one year to implement the RSF component.




                                            5
C. PROPOSED CHANGES

Closing date extension and reallocation of proceeds

8.      While in 2011 CGTMSE and SIDBI had undertaken the basic groundwork to test
the market appetite for the proposed product and had expressions of interest from several
banks, lack of any budget thus far, meant that the RSF could not be launched. An initial
budget has now been made available for CGTMSE to the extent of Rs350 million (around
US$6.4 million) and therefore, SIDBI is requesting for an extension of the project in
order to be able to implement the RSF. Additional budget allocations are expected later in
the year.

9.      If successfully implemented, the chances of the RSF design influencing the much
larger (around US$450 million corpus) guarantee product also implemented by
CGTMSE, are increased. This larger guarantee product has fewer measures to mitigate
adverse selection and moral hazard risks. With the (re)launch of the RSF, with additional
features to protect against adverse selection risks (including portfolio slicing and random
sample selection techniques and differentiated pricing), a strong demonstration of an
improved product is expected. Further, a leverage of at least five is expected. That is,
guaranteed amount will be five time the size of the funding, or loans will be ten times the
size of the funding, given 50:50 pari passu structure in the RSF.

10.    For the reasons above, to allow for additional time to complete the
implementation of the RSF, the Closing Date is proposed for extension from June 30,
2012 to June 30, 2013.

11.     Given that preparation for the launch of the RSF has already been undertaken, it is
expected that implementation would be completed within the extended time period
proposed. This change supports project outcomes. Through the intended demonstration
effect of the RSF, it is expected that this remaining and innovative component would also
be successfully implemented. Further, given that the initial budget allocation is already
made and SIDBI has conveyed to the Bank that transfers of this allocation to CGTMSE
would be made shortly, risk of the RSF not taking off is low.

12.     Extension would allow the Bank team to continue to oversee and provide
technical inputs on what is a particularly innovative component of the project, the RSF.
Extension will also allow SIDBI to channel the originally unallocated amount of US$ 9
million (as proposed in the Table below) through further refinancing under the CF, hence
expanding the project’s demonstration effect. In addition, a side benefit is that an
extended project time period would allow for supporting greater dissemination of the
project’s ESMF to the banking system, a process that has been gained momentum
recently, with strong initial results. In recent months, two financial institutions, including
one of the largest public sector banks, have confirmed to SIDBI that they are adopting the
project ESMF framework as their corporate framework. Extension would allow technical
support by the Bank team to oversee even greater adoption and dissemination, which if
successful, would be an additional, important project outcome.



                                              6
Category         Original Allocation Proposed Loan        Percentage        of
                 (expressed in USD   Allocation           Expenditures to be
                                     (expressed in USD)   financed
(1) Sub-loans 380,000,000            389,000,000          90%     of   amounts
under Part A of                                           disbursed under Sub-
the Project                                               loan Agreements
(2) Financing to 10,000,000          10,000,000           100% of Financing
operate     Risk                                          provided by SIDBI to
Sharing                                                   the Risk Sharing
Guarantee                                                 Guarantee Company
Facility under
Part B of the
Project
(3)    Front-end 1,000,000           1,000,000
Fee
Unallocated      9,000,000
Total            400,000,000         400,000,000




                                      7
