                                                                                                      78822
                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No:




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                OF
    SME FINANCING & DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT
                              LOAN
                           March 30, 2009


                                                TO THE

                SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA


                                             June 18, 2013




SOUTH ASIA FINANCE AND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
SOUTH ASIA REGION


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CF       Credit Facility
CGTMSE   Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises
DEA      Department of Economic Affairs
DfID     Department for International Development
DFS      Department of Financial Services
FI       Financial Institution
NBFC     Non-Bank Finance Company
PDO      Project Development Outcome
RSF      Risk Sharing Facility
SIDBI    Small Industries Development Bank of India
SME      Small and Medium Enterprises
TA       Technical Assistance




             Regional Vice President:       Isabel Guerrero
                   Country Director:        Onno Ruhl
                    Sector Manager:         Henry Bagazonzya
                  Task Team Leader:         Niraj Verma
              Co-Task Team Leader:          Gabi Afram



                                        2
                              INDIA
     SME FINANCING & DEVELOPMENT ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4

B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4

C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 5




                                                                  3
  SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE FINANCING AND DEVELOPMENT
              ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

1.      The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) is implementing the
Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Financing and Development Additional Financing
Project (US$400 million), following successful closure of the original project (US$120
million) in 2009. For the additional financing project, SIDBI, with the approval of the
Department of Financial Services (DFS) and the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA),
has requested for a reallocation of US$8.57 million of proceeds from the Risk Sharing
Facility (RSF) component of the Project to the Credit Facility (CF) component of the
Project. The main reason for seeking this reallocation is that further Government
budgeting will not materialize before the Project’s extended closing date – a prerequisite
for further utilization of the RSF. The reallocation to the CF would expand the coverage
of SMEs under the Project.

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      Background: The implementation of the initial project (2005-2009) was
satisfactory and the objectives of expanding access to long term finance to SMEs and
improving the quality of lending to SMEs were achieved. Both the Bank funded
components of the Credit Facility (CF) and RSF were implemented successfully. In
addition, the project’s third component, a Department for International Development
(DfID) funded technical assistance (TA) component has contributed to market
infrastructure development especially in areas of credit information and cluster
development.

3.       Progress of the additional financing project: The additional financing project
(2009-present) has the same components as the initial project. The development objective
of the additional loan is to improve SME access to finance (including term finance) and
business development services, thereby fostering SME growth, competitiveness and
employment creation. In line with the objectives of the additional financing, the Project
has been successful in extending the geographical coverage including in under-served
states, scaling down to smaller SMEs, and broadening the menu of existing products such
as term-loans, working capital loans and receivables financing and innovative products
with features of reverse factoring. As the additional project was in part a response to the
global financial crisis, disbursements made in 2009-10 provided much needed liquidity to
credit starved SMEs and contributed to signaling to the financing market that engaging
with potentially viable SMEs in the time of the downturn could be undertaken
sustainably. Overall disbursements have been strong and US$380 million out of the
US$400 million Project amount have been disbursed. Development impact as measured
through the Project’s key performance indicators continues to remain encouraging. Credit
growth rate has exceeded targets by a wide margin and has been achieved, while

                                            4
maintaining profitability above 1%. Return on assets and loan quality is better than what
was targeted (net NPLs being 0.53% for SIDBI versus a target of 3%). On the basis of
these positive outcomes, it is expected that the Project Development Outcome (PDO) will
be achieved. Current PDO rating is Satisfactory and Implementation Progress rating is
Moderately Satisfactory (see Table 1).

Table 1: Key Project Data                          Current Ratings and Flags
Board Date         April 30, 2009                  Development Objectives (DOs)   S
Original Closing
                   June 30, 2012                   Implementation Progress        MS
Date
Revised Closing
                  June 30, 2013                    Problem Flags                  None
Date
% Disbursed        97.6% (US$390.7 million)        Age                            4 years
S=Satisfactory; MS=Moderately Satisfactory

4.     In addition, under the CF component, both direct financing by SIDBI and
refinancing of other financial institutions (FIs) took place. Refinancing was undertaken
through an innovative non-banking finance company (NBFC) lending to SMEs in
Rajasthan and other states and a public sector bank. Refinancing has helped spread the
impact and good practices of the project through FIs other than SIDBI.

5.      There are no pending financial management or audit issues. Particularly notable
has been the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
(ESMF) for lending to SMEs which is now being adopted by some other banks and FIs as
well, enabling a sector influence beyond the Project.

6.      However, progress in the implementation of the RSF had been slow. The Project
was extended by a year in 2012 to allow for time to implement the RSF (allocation of
US$10 million). The RSF implementation had been delayed primarily on account of lack
of budgeting, a factor outside of SIDBI’s control, as SIDBI can fund the RSF
implementing agency, the Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises
(CGTMSE), only after a Government contribution is received by CGTMSE and only in
an amount equal to one fifth of the Government contribution. While an initial budget
allocation from the Government was made in 2013, and following that Project funds via
SIDBI were disbursed and the RSF launched, the budget allocation was only sufficient to
allow utilization of US$1.43 million of Project proceeds. While this is lower than what
was expected, it has allowed the piloting of the RSF and the Project’s objective of
catalyzing a demonstration effect of good risk sharing facility design has at least partly
been achieved. However, it is unlikely in the remaining project period, that a further
budget allocation will be made by the Government to CGTMSE.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

7.     For the reason above, SIDBI has requested for a reallocation of Project proceeds
from the RSF to the CF, in the amount of US$8.57 million. This would allow the full
Project proceeds to be utilized. On the CF, SIDBI has a ready pipeline that can be
financed within the remaining project period. This proposed pipeline has been vetted by
the Project team and can be disbursed within the time available under the Project.
                                              5
Additional disbursements facilitated by this reallocation would expand coverage of SMEs
under the Project through a participating financial institution. The achievement of PDOs
pursuant to the proposed change in allocation of project proceeds will not be affected.
Performance on PDO indicators as discussed above remains strong and the PDO rating is
proposed to continue as Satisfactory. On account of the only partial implementation of
the RSF, the Implementation Progress rating will remain at Moderately Satisfactory.

8.     The proposed reallocation is summarized in the following table:

Category           Current Allocation          Proposed Loan             Percentage of
                   (expressed in US$)               Allocation     Expenditures to be
                                            (expressed in US$)                financed
(1) Sub-loans              389,000,000          397,568,403.61         90% of amounts
under Part A of                                                   disbursed under Sub-
the Project                                                           loan Agreements
(2) Financing to            10,000,000            1,431,596.31      100% of Financing
operate     Risk                                                  provided by SIDBI to
Sharing                                                                the Risk Sharing
Guarantee                                                          Guarantee Company
Facility under
Part B of the
Project
(3)    Front-end              1,000,000           1,000,000.00
Fee
Total                      400,000,000          400,000,000.00




                                           6
