Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3327 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/17/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Sudan 
Project ID: P102315 
Project Name: Sudan Microfinance Development Facility Project 
Task Team Leader: Samuel Munzele Maimbo 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date:  
Managing Unit: AFTPS 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: General industry and trade sector (55%);Micro- and SME finance (45%) 
Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P);Personal and property rights (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
10.00 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
10.00
20.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The development objective is the reduction of poverty among the poor through the sustainable 
growth of microfinance providers on a commercial basis.  
 
Sustainability and Ownership  
 
The sustainability of the MTDF investment would be ascertained through a combination of 
commercial principles and complementary policy actions.  
 
Bank of Sudan Microfinance Initiative The Central Bank of Sudan recently commissioned a 
study of the microfinance sector with the objective of preparing a long term development 
strategy for the sector. The two key recommendations of the action plan were the need to 
strengthen the Bank of Sudan’s microfinance regulatory capacity, and the establishment of an 
independent apex institution that would provide financial and capacity-building support to new 
and existing microfinance providers serving diverse market segments across rural and urban 
parts of Sudan.  
 
Ministry of Finance: Private Sector Development Program: The Ministry of Finance is 
developing a private sector development strategy through an effort institutionally led by the 
Director of Policy, Madame Layla Omer Bashir and a cross-agency steering committee. The 
Page  2
objective is to create an enabling environment that is more conducive to the development of 
broad-based, pro-poor private sector growth. This effort will support elimination of obstacles to 
small and microenterprises, including obstacles to microenterprise formalization.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
Bank of Sudan Microfinance Regulatory Policy Capacity  
 
With the objective of supporting the establishment of the microfinance sector, the Bank of 
Sudan has established a microfinance division within the Central Bank’s Financial Institutions 
and Systems Wing (FISW). The purpose of this divisionwill be to promote sustainable 
microfinance (both Islamic and conventional) in Sudan. Microfinance is seen by the central bank 
as a viable financial sector instrument for enhancing access to financial services for the poor, 
alleviating poverty and promoting economic development. Its strategy is to promote 
microfinance through both banks and non-bank financial institutions, and to facilitate the use of 
both government and non-government financial and technical resources.  
 
2. 
Sudan Microfinance Development Facility (SMDF)  
 
Rationale for an Apex Institution: Although the demand for microfinance services is 
substantial, the industry currently only covers an estimated 1%-3% of the potential market. 
While microfinance is not a panacea for poverty reduction, it could play an important role in the 
financial sector development of Sudan. Providing access to appropriate microfinance (credit, 
savings and other services) could support a range of outcomes, including:  
 
•
Increased incomes, a growing enterprise sector, and increased employment  
 
•
Increased assets and wealth  
 
•
Reduced vulnerability of households to economic shocks and to risk, and increased 
household ability to invest in their own health, education, etc.  
 
•
Economic empowerment of women  
 
The international community, together with the Sudanese government, has put together a 
microenterpise development project focused on poverty reduction through the improvement of 
livelihoods for both the urban and rural poor. The estimated funding is US$20.00 million over 
four years, to be invested in microfinance, in line with the following principles:  
 
•
Take an institutional approach to supporting microfinance – act like an investor in retail 
providers of financial services and microfinance support organizations rather than a financier of 
a
project.  
 
•
Establish business-like partnerships with partner organizations, with fundinglinked to 
clearly defined and mutually agreed performance targets.  
 
•
Invest in diverse retail providers capable of delivering well-tailored services to diverse 
market segments (by gender, geographic location, socioeconomic base, etc.).  
 
•
Take a long-term approach to investing in microfinance – the development of viable 
microfinance capacity takes time. Ideally provide 3-5 years of financing and capacity-building 
support to the point at which the microfinance providers are financially viable and able to 
operate without external support.  
Page  3
•
Make sure that the retail providers and support organizations have sufficientsupport to 
build institutional capacity, through technical assistance and training tailored to the needs of the 
organizations.  
 
•
Build expertise within Sudan on good-practice microfinance strategies, operations, 
policies and regulations at all levels – retail microfinance providers, service providers to the 
microfinance industry such as consultants, trainers and auditors, and regulators and policy 
makers – to ensure the health of the sector as a whole.  
 
•
Create an enabling environment for the sector, applying a mix of laws, policies and 
regulations to stimulate innovation and diversity in achieving the goal of broad-based access to 
finance.  
 
•
Adjust the program’s interventions as the sector develops, to ensure that funding and 
capacity-building is tailored, more focused, and implemented in such a way as to avoid distorting 
the market as the microfinance market becomes more competitive and commercial. Consider 
appropriate “exit” strategy and thresholds from the inception of the initiative.  
 
In an environment with many existing or planned microfinance programs, and a range of 
approaches, donors, and priorities, a microfinance development facility –a wholesale mechanism 
that provides financing and technical support to retail MFIs, microfinance networks, and other 
intermediaries and service providers – canhelp coordinate and rationalize donor support for 
microfinance within a sector development framework, provide a mechanism for introducing 
good microfinance practices and standards, and support the development of institutional 
microfinance provider capacity. It can also provide donors with an efficient funding mechanism 
that meets national market needs. It was with these goals in mind that the establishment of a 
support facility is being proposed for Sudan.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Government of National Unity.  The project will serve locations throughout Sudan including the 
three areas, marginalized parts of western, eastern and northern Sudan, as well as focusing on 
urban working poor.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Bank of Sudan staff are relatively capable, as the institution has been considerably strengthened 
in recent years.  A new microfinance unit has been established in the Central Bank of Sudan, and 
an external consultant is being recruited to manage it. The Apex Institution will be professionally 
managed by a firm with international experience.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Warren Waters (AFTQK) 
 
Page  4
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  07/18/0007 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
There are no environmental impacts expeted from this microfinance development activity   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Samuel Munzele Maimbo 
12/17/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
12/18/2007 
Comments:  No SGP specialist required if project remains as defined in PCN and ISDS.  Later, should 
project involve land acquisition, construction, or potential environmental or social impacts, consult 
ASPEN 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Michael J. Fuchs 
12/18/2007 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
