           Document of
        The World Bank


                                  Report No: 62101 - SD




MULTI DONOR TRUST FUND (MDTF-N)



     RESTRUCTURING PAPER
             ON A
PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING


             OF
 SUDAN MICROFINANCE PROJECT

              TO

   THE GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN


          May 10, 2011
            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CBOS         Central Bank of Sudan

MDTF -N      Multi-Donor Trust Fund-North Sudan

MFI          Microfinance Institute

MFU          Microfinance Unit

SMDF         Sudan Microfinance Development Facility

TA           Technical Assistance




     Regional Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
     Acting Country Director:         Ian Bannon
             Sector Manager:          Michael J. Fuchs
          Task Team Leader:           Alwaleed Alatabani




                                 2
                            SUDAN
 SUDAN MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND FOR SUDAN MICROFINANCE PROJECT
                           (P102315)
                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                     Page
A. SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1: EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE............................................................ 6
ANNEX ACTIONPLAN
ANNEX EXTENSNION NOTIFICATION LETTER




                                                             3
    SUDAN MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND FOR SUDAN MICROFINANCE
                      PROJECT (P102315)

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY
The original closing date for the project is June 30, 2011. It is proposed to extend the
project closing date to June 30, 2012. Delays in project implementation were
encountered in the set up phase of the Sudan Microfinance Development Facility.
Project implementation was further hampered by the fact that the microfinance sector in
Sudan is relatively nascent and the weak capacity of personnel in the microfinance sector
in Sudan. All funds have been committed to various activities related to sub-projects for
technical assistance, loans and equity. This proposed extension would enable the project
to fully disburse the allocated funding for the project and allow the project the come
closer to achieving its development objectives. The project extension will also give us an
opportunity to continue to seek a broader policy discussion with the authorities on the
microfinance sector in Sudan.


PROJECT STATUS
1. Overall implementation progress remains Moderately Satisfactory. Component one,
   which involves the microfinance sector regulatory framework has been completed
   and policy directives have been developed and adopted by the Board of the Central
   Bank of Sudan. Despite the initial delay encountered in component two, which
   involves the establishment of the Microfinance Apex institution, progress in
   completing the management and operational systems of the Sudan Microfinance
   Development Facility (SMDF) is currently underway. The project received additional
   financing in the amount of $1.8 million to cater for an extension of the management
   service contract with Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. Component three
   of the project is under implementation and several sub-projects for MFI’s have been
   approved by the Board of the SMDF. Allocations to the emerging industry, including
   MFI’s, Community Based Organizations, and Microfinance Banks for technical
   assistance, loans and equity have been approved and are under implementation. A
   total of 12 proposals were approved by SMDF board for TA, loans or equity to the
   various institutions in the microfinance sector. In terms of disbursements, the project
   has disbursed $5.2 m illion out of a total of $11.81 m illion, representing a
   disbursement rate of 44 percent.

2. Delays were also encountered in the procurement process of the consulting firm to
   manage the Sudan Microfinance Development Facility, as one of the effectiveness
   conditions of the grant agreement. The project has also overcome several setbacks
   during the first year of implementation that led to the delays in implementation,
                                            4
   primarily during the completion of SMDF’s registration and operational set-up.
   Despite these delays, the pace of implementation progress has improved and the
   project is on track to meet its development objectives. This is attributed to several
   factors, including (i) the full commitment of the implementing partners to the project
   (ii) strong support of the World Bank’s project management team through closer
   supervision, (iii) technical guidance on s ector related issues, procurement and
   contract management and (iv) continuous consultations with stakeholders on t he
   project’s progress. The project result frame work was revised and cleared recently
   during the processing of the additional financing request, and no additional
   adjustments were made to the results framework since then.

3. Since mid-2010, Sudanese (national) management has assumed full responsibilities in
   managing the SMDF’s day to day activities with continued technical and capacity
   building support provided by Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. The
   project continues to face challenges in implementation, primarily due to the lack of
   suitable consultants and staff due to the lack of specific technical expertise in the
   microfinance sector in Sudan.

4. There are no unresolved fiduciary issues such as audit, environmental, social or other
   safeguard issues. There are no legal pending issues. There are no anticipated changes
   to the PDO or the project outcome indicators. Financial management, procurement
   arrangements, and institutional roles and responsibilities remain unchanged.

5. This will be the first extension of the project.


PROPOSED CHANGES

   •   The original closing date for the project was June 30, 2011. It is proposed to
       extend the closing date to June 30, 2012. This extension would enable the project
       to fully disburse the allocated funding for the sub-projects in the form of technical
       assistance, loans and equity to the various sub-projects under the project and
       allow the project the come closer to achieving its development objectives.

   •   The project extension will give us an opportunity to continue to seek a broader
       policy discussion with the authorities on the microfinance sector in Sudan.




                                              5
                                          ANNEX 1:
                                   Extension of Closing Date




   SUDAN- SUDAN MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND FOR MICROFINANCE PROJECT

                                         TF090080


                                      Restructuring paper

1. The closing date for the Sudan Microfinance Project, MDTF-N, and Project ID: P102315
   will be extended from June 30, 2011 until June 31st, 2012.

2.      Activities in project components have been progressing well. Component one, which
involves the microfinance sector regulatory framework, has been completed and policy directives
have been developed and adopted by the Board of the Central Bank of Sudan. Despite the initial
delay encountered in component two, which involves the establishment of the Microfinance
Apex institution, progress in completing the management and operational systems of the Sudan
Microfinance Development Facility (SMDF), is currently underway. The project received
additional financing in the amount of $1.8 million to cater for an extension of the management
service contract with Frankfurt School of Finance and Management. Component three of the
project is under implementation and several sub-projects for MFI’s have been approved by the
Board of the SMDF. Allocations to the emerging industry, including MFI’s, Community Based
Organizations, and Microfinance Banks for technical assistance, loans and equity have been
approved and are under implementation. A total of 12 proposals were approved by SMDF board
for TA, loans or equity to the various institutions in the microfinance sector. In terms of
disbursements, the project has disbursed $5.2 million out of a total of $11.81 m illion,
representing a disbursement rate of 44 percent.

3.      The development objective of the project continues to be achievable despite of the initial
delays. The proposed extension is necessary to help the project disburse all the funds allocated to
the project. The Central Bank of Sudan- Microfinance Unit and SMDF management has
prepared an action plan, as well as the related procurement plan to meet project completion
timeline.

4.     This will be the first extension of the project. The proposed extension is necessary for the
Project to fully disburse the funding allocated to the project and come closer to achieving its
development objectives.
                                             ANNEX 2:

                          Action plan for Sudan Microfinance Project-

                            Sudan Microfinance Development Project

Extension of closing date

1. On March 3, 2011 the Ministry of Finance and National Economy sent a letter to the World
   Bank requesting an extension on t he closing date of the Sudan Microfinance Project (TF
   090080). After consultation with the Central Bank of Sudan- Microfinance Unit, it was
   determined that in order for the project to meet its disbursement projections, and fiduciary
   obligations it is necessary that the project extends its closing date by 12 months to June, 30,
   2012. This will allow for the full disbursement of funds allocated to projects listed in
   component three, for sub-projects approved by the Board of Directors in the form of loans,
   TA, and equity.

2. Overall implementation progress remains Moderately Satisfactory. Component one, which
   involves the microfinance sector regulatory framework, has been completed and policy
   directives have been developed and adopted by the Board of the Central Bank of Sudan.
   Despite the initial delay encountered in component two, which involves the establishment of
   the Microfinance Apex institution, progress in completing the management and operational
   systems of the Sudan Microfinance Development Facility (SMDF), is currently underway.
   The project received additional financing in the amount of $1.8 m illion to cater for an
   extension of the management service contract with Frankfurt School of Finance and
   Management. Component three of the project is under implementation and several sub-
   projects for MFI’s have been approved by the Board of the SMDF. Allocations to the
   emerging industry, including MFI’s, Community Based Organizations, and Microfinance
   Banks for technical assistance, loans and equity have been approved and are under
   implementation. A total of 12 pr oposals were approved by SMDF board for TA, loans or
   equity to the various institutions in the microfinance sector. In terms of disbursements, the
   project has disbursed $5.2 million out of a total of $11.81 m illion, representing a
   disbursement rate of 44 percent.

3. The original closing date for the project was June 30, 2011 a nd the proposed closing date is
   June 30, 2012. This extension would enable the project to fully disburse the allocated funding
   for the sub-projects in the form of technical assistance, loans and equity to the various sub-
   projects under the project and allow the project the come closer to achieving its development
   objectives.

4. With a total Project allocation of $11.9 million, out of which $7.4million is allocated to fund
   loans, equity and TA component under the SMDF pipeline activities. While $4.5 is the total
   cost allocated to build SMDF management capacity which is to end with the completion of
   contracted international consulting firm in July 2011.

5.    Since the last project supervision and the mid-term review, progress in the project
     implementation has been registered. The details of the current status of the ongoing activities,



                                                  7
the disbursement plan and procurement plan for the key activities, consultancy services, and
other goods form part of this Action Plan prepared to enhance the implementation progress.




                                           8
                                                          ANNEX 3:
                                                  Extension Notification letter



The World Bank                                                1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT         Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                         U.S.A.                       Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                        April 17, 2011


            H. E. Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasool
            Minister of Finance and National Economy
            Ministry of Finance and National Economy
            Khartoum, Sudan


            Excellency:

                        The Republic of Sudan- Additional Financing for Sudan Microfinance Project
                                            (MDTF- NS Grant No. TF090080)
                                                Extension of Closing Date

                   Pursuant to your letter dated March 3, 2011, requesting us to extend the Closing Date of the
            above-referenced Additional Financing, I am pleased to inform you that the International Development
            Association (the World Bank), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under
            the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Sudan (MDTF-NS) concurs with your request.

                     Accordingly, the Association has established June 30, 2012 as the later date for purposes of
            Article III, Section 3.03 of the Annex to the Agreement between the Republic of the Sudan and the World
            Bank, as administrator of funds provided by various donors under the MDTF-NS, dated May, 22nd, 2007.


                                                           Sincerely,



                                                         Ian Bannon
                        Acting Director of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and Fragile States Cluster


            Cc: -Mr. Mohammed Khair El Zubair, Governor of Central Bank of Sudan
            -Mr. Mustafa Hawli, Acting Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance and National Economy
            -Ms. Faiza Awad Mohamed, Acting Director General for International Financial Cooperation, MOFNE
            -Mr. Omer Hajam- Project Executive Director
            -Mr. Mirghani A. Glood, Head of the MDTF-NS unit
            -Mr. Mohamed Al Hassan Al; Shiekh, Assistant Governor of Central Bank of Sudan
            -Mrs. Hiba Farid, Director of Microfinance Unit, Central Bank of Sudan


                                                               9
10
