Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15767
DIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1353-SL)
June 19, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Leones
At the time of appraisal (April 1983)
US$1.00 = Le 1.25
At the time of ICR mission (April 1996)
US$1.00 = Le 950
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER
September - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DOE          Department of Education
DOF          Department of Finance
GOSL         Government of Sierra Leone
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1353-SL)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation summary ................................................i
Part I:    Project implementation assessment ................................................                      1
A. Introduction ..........................................1
B.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .........................................                     2
C. Achievement Objectives .........................................                                      3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................                         4
E.  Project Sustainability .........................................                                     6
F.  Bank Performance .........................................                                           6
G. Borrower Perfornance .........................................                                        7
H. Assessment of Outcome .........................................                                       8
I.  Future Operation .........................................                                           8
J.  Key Lessons Learned .........................................                                        9
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .11
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4:  Annual and Cumulative Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual                                      .13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................                                 20
Table 8B: Project Financing ...............................................                            21
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                   21
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                   22
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 25
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                 25
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                     26
Appendixes
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
Appendix B: Borrower contribution to the ICR
Appendix C: Co-financier Contribution to the ICR
Appendix D: Map
T Tiis docuinent has a restricted disuribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. NO 1353-SL)
PREFACE
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Education Project in
Sierra Leone (Credit 1353-SL), for which a credit in the amount of SDR 18.5 million
(US$20.00 million equivalent) was approved on May 3, 1983, and made effective August 16,
1983.
2. The credit was closed on December 31, 1995, about seven years after the original closing
date. Total disbursement amounted to SDR 13.76 million (US$18.5 million equivalent) as of
May 12, 1996, with SDR 4.73 million (US$6.6 million equivalent) to be canceled. The actual
US dollar equivalent of the Credit increased by US$5.3 million due to favorable exchange rate
fluctuations between the SDR and the US dollar. The project also received parallel financing
in the amount of US$1.9 million equivalent from the ODA in support of a textbook
component.
3. The first draft ICR was prepared by Mr. F. Fichtl (Population and Human Resources
Division of the Western Africa Department). A revised draft was prepared by Mr. D. Rouag
(Task Manager for the project), and contributions were made by H. Thias (consultant). The
final version was reviewed by Ms. R. Bellew, Acting Division Chief, AF5PH, and Mr. E.
Schebeck, Projects Adviser, West Africa Department.
4. Preparation of the ICR began during IDA's final supervision missions in July and
November 1995. This report is based on the missions' observations and discussions during
the field visits as well as discussion with the relevant staff of the PIU and the Department of
Education. It is also based on documents in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the
ICR by preparing its own detailed Completion Report included in Appendix B and by
providing comments on the draft ICR.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. NO. 1353-SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                       Cr. 1353-SL
Credit Amount:                       SDR 18.5 million (US$20.0 equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                       Department of Education
Date effective:                      August 16, 1983
Date closed:                         December 31, 1995
Cofinancing:
Overseas Development Administration    US$1.9 million
Introduction
1.   In 1982, GNP/capita in Sierra Leone averaged US$ 250; and the population was
growing at a rate of 2.6 percent p.a.. The education system was not fully developed, and at the
primary level the gross enrollment rate was estimated at 37 percent in 1977/78.
2.    The Bank's previous involvement in the education sector had consisted of two small
projects supported by Credit 170-SL (US$ 3.0 million) and Credit 513-SL (US$ 7.25 million)
approved in 1970 and 1975, respectively. Both focused on investments in education and
training at the secondary level, with the Second Education Project supporting a much broader
range of activities and institutions in a complex operation. Both projects, while experiencing
some implementation delays, were judged to have had satisfactory outcomes, though with
considerable variation among the components of the Second Education Project (paras. 3-4).
3.    By the early 1980's, the Government's attention had shifted to the unsatisfactory state
of primary education. This new emphasis was also in accord with the Bank Group's changed
priorities in education which emphasized the strengthening of basic education (para. 5).
Project Objectives
4.    The Third Education Project had three objectives:
(i) increase access to primary education through investments in physical facilities;
(ii) improve the quality of primary education through the provision of textbooks and
teacher training/upgrading; and
(iii) strengthen administrative and managerial capacities in the education sector
through specialist services and staff training.
5.    The project was estimated to cost US$27.3 million equivalent of which US$20 million
was to be covered by the proposed IDA Credit, US$1.9 million by an ODA contribution for



ii
textbooks, and US$5.4 million by Government counterpart funds, mainly to meet incremental
recurrent expenditures.
6.    Implementation was entrusted to the existing PIU in charge of the Second Education
Project, a semi-independent agency under the supervision of the Department of Finance. This
separation of implementation and beneficiary agencies was not without its drawbacks but, at
the time, the existence of an experienced PIU weighed more heavily in the Government's and
the Bank's considerations.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The Credit was signed and became effective without delays (May and August 1983
respectively). However, implementation soon ran into difficulties. By 1987 the Government's
inadequate macroeconomic and fiscal policies deteriorated to the point that project
disbursements had to be suspended. They remained so until 1992. Poor PIU performance and
its location outside of the Department of Education also adversely affected implementation.
During the project's last two years, a nation-wide security problem put restrictions on the
geographical scope of project activities and, more importantly, forced the DOE to devote most
of its energies to coping with immediate crises. After the resumption of disbursements, project
implementation was resumed, but tangible progress was visible only at the very end. By Credit
Closing, the most significant civil works component (classroom construction) had been about
two-thirds completed.
8.    The location of the PIU outside the Department of Education resulted in a diminished
sense of ownership regarding the project on the part of the DOE; it caused administrative
friction harmful to project implementation, and it hindered fruitful policy dialogue. The
incorporation of a slimmed down and more motivated PIU into the DOE during the last year of
project implementation was an institutional adjustment long overdue.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned.
9.    Findings: Overall, the outcome of the Third Education Project is rated unsatisfactory.
Although reliable and comparable data are hard to come by, most observers agree--and the
available information supports--that in the areas addressed by the project objectives (para. 3),
the situation is worse now than it was at the start of the project. The main contributing factors
were: (i) the general economic and budgetary deterioration which occurred through most of
the implementation period; (ii) the weak management and implementation capacity of the PmU;
and (iii) the high turn over of IDA staff responsible for supervision and, related to that, the
tendency of staff to rely solely on the Project Management Unit.
10.   The sustainability of the Project's achievements is a moot point. No institutional
systems were established to maintain and replenish essential inputs or to establish sustainable
textbooks and in-service training schemes. A new proposed Project is expected to include
provisions aimed explicitly at the sustainability of key educational inputs.



iii
11.   The physical facilities, being somewhat longer-lived, would require budgetary
provisions for maintenance. Since regular preventive maintenance of buildings has not taken
place during most of the implementation period, some buildings may require higher initial
allocations for repair/rehabilitation work. Recent budgetary developments justify a guarded
optimism about future levels of funding to preserve physical assets.
12.   Lessons: The three major lessons for the future are:
(a)   To increase project ownership, to create conditions of sustainability, to facilitate
implementation and improve monitoring and evaluation, it is important that: (i)
project management be undertaken by the direct beneficiary; (ii) financial
sustainability be assessed and funding mechanisms and procedures be included
for relevant components; (iii) work programs including budget estimates and
counterpart financing be agreed upon yearly; (vi) adequate counterpart funding
be ensured through IDA review of the beneficiary draft sector budgets; and, (v)
progress and performance indicators be included in the project.
(b)   A greater degree of staff stability (particularly for the function of task manager)
is imperative if IDA is to develop country, sector and project knowledge to
make worthwhile contributions to the implementation of projects. Similarly,
although project implementation is the responsibility of the Borrower, the
Bank's "operational culture" should give greater weight to supervision.
(c)   More attention should be given to evaluate the viability of projects that have
been suspended for an extended period before resuming operation. The longer
the interruption, the higher the probability that the project will have lost
momentum and will no longer be consistent with the changed environment.



=



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
TH1IRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. NO. 1353-SL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    INTRODUCrION
The Role of the Bank Group in the Sector
1.   IDA's assistance to the education sector of Sierra Leone began at the end of 1969
when the Board approved Credit 170-SL in the amount of US$ 3.0 million to support the First
Education Project. The objectives of this initial operation were to: (i) prepare secondary
students for employment through the introduction of practical training streams; (ii) improve the
quality of technical/trade education to support the replacement of expatriate skilled and semi-
skdlled industrial workers; (iii) upgrade primary teachers through in-service training; and (iv)
strengthen administrative and planning capabilities of the Department of Education (DOE).
2.    This initial project was completed in early 1976. Its outcomes were considered
generally satisfactory: physical investments were undertaken as planned (albeit with some
delays) and the internal capacity of the Department of Education was strengthened. However,
in-service training of primary teachers was delayed because of the belated availability of
physical facilities, and practical subject teaching in secondary education was hampered by
teacher shortages.
3.    The Second Education Project (Credit 513-SL), in the amount of US$7.3 million
equivalent, was approved in mid-1975. Together with its EEC counterpart (US$1 million
equivalent), it supported an operation which had a wide range of objectives namely to: (i)
broaden lower secondary curricula through the inclusion of science, pre-vocational technical
and commercial subjects; (ii) expand the relevant teacher training programs; (iii) create a
production capacity in the trade schools to improve training for rural health and community
development services; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the Institute of Education in specific areas
such as teacher training and curriculum development; and (v) reinforce planning capacities of
the University of Sierra Leone and the Department of Education.
4.    The Credit 513-SL was closed at the end of 1982, more than two years after the
original closing date. Physical implementation was judged successful, particularly in view of
the worsening economic conditions at the end of the period. However, operational outcomes
were mixed: success was achieved in broadening secondary curricula, while the technical
teacher training suffered from enrollment shortfalls; production units in the trade schools were
a failure; and the education research function remained weak. By contrast, training programs
operated by the Department of Social Welfare and the Institute of Public Administration and
Management were operating effectively.



2
5.    By the early 1980s, when implementation of the Second Education Project drew to a
close and the preparation of the Third Education Project had started, the Bank's perception of
educational development needs in low-income countries, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa,
underwent a profound change: better access to and quality of basic education were seen as a
key condition for a country's social and economic development. On both counts, Sierra-
Leone's basic education stood in need of improvements. Educational opportunities were
concentrated in urban areas (enrollment ratio of 50% compared with about 20% in villages
with less than 2,000 inhabitants); girls were underrepresented (40% of total enrollment); and
actual attendance of rural students and of girls was well below the enrollment figures. The
quality of the education provided was also not the best it could be. Half of primary teachers
lacked professional qualifications; there were practically no textbooks or other learning
materials; and classrooms in urban areas were generally overcrowded while rural facilities had
fallen into disrepair and were often unfurnished.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Long-term Sectoral Objectives: The Government's main objective for the education
sector was to achieve universal access to primary education by the mid-1990s (i.e. in 10 to 15
years). This was deemed realistic and had the full support of IDA.
7.    Project Objectives: In order to help realize the Government's long-term goals, the
specific objectives of the Third Education Project were to: (a) improve the quality of primary
education through support to teacher training and the provision of textbooks; (b) increase
access to primary education in rural areas through the construction of primary schools; and (c)
strengthen the institutional capacity for educational planning, administration, management,
evaluation and effective project implementation. To achieve these objectives, the project
contained the following components:
Development of Primary Education (US$17.3 million, 87 % of the total project cost):
(a) civil works and furniture for about 500 classrooms (22,500 student places), and 66
staff houses for schools in remote area; (b) civil works, furniture and equipment for the
Freetown Teacher' Training College (FTTC) and specialist services for studying
efficiency of teacher training; (c) construction/rehabilitation of the central book storage
facility in Freetown and of nine district warehouses; procurement and distribution of
textbooks;
Strengthening Administrative, Planning and Evaluation Capacities (US$ 1.3
million, 7% of total project costs): (a) training of administrative and educational staff,
(b) specialist services, training, and equipment for the educational planning unit; (c)
evaluation;
Project Management (US$ 1.2 million, 6% of total project costs): Equipment and
operational funds for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives: Overall, the project's objectives were relevant,
clearly stated, realistic and consistent with the Borrower's development strategy and the



3
Bank's lending priorities. The project was not overly complex. The one potential criticism of
the project concept was the preponderance of physical investments as compared to limited
emphasis on qualitative aspects such as training and institutional strengthening.
9.    The Credit Agreement included two specific covenants to support the objective of
enrollment expansion: shorten the duration of primary schooling from seven to six years; and
increase the average student-teacher ratio from 35:1 to 45:1 over a period of ten years.
10.   With regard to the unsatisfactory implementation arrangements, the appraisal report
projected institutional weaknesses as a major risk, not only in the overall administration of the
education system, but specifically in project implementation. It pointed to the experiences of
the First Education Project, completed 18 months behind schedule, and the Second Education
Project, completed 24 months behind schedule. Nonetheless, new arrangements were not
made and project management did not improve. It was limited to funding the operating costs
of the existing PIU.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.   Evaluation criteria. Although evaluation of project achievement is hampered by the
absence of clear and quantifiable criteria in the SAR, its outcome can be judged in terms of:
(a) the delivery of the planned project inputs; (b) the intrinsic validity of project design and the
appropriateness of inputs relative to objectives; and (c) the project's flexibility to respond to a
changing environment.
12.   Delivery of project inputs. The project delivered its planned inputs with delays and,
with respect to civil works, only partially. Specifically, 328 classrooms and 44 staff houses
were completed - about 85 percent of them in the last year of the project. Similarly, 167 out
of 189 latrines and 106 out of 189 water welis were built.. This limited the project's impact
with regard to capacity expansion.
13.   In the area of quality improvements, the project succeeded in constructing the
Freetown Teacher' Training College (FTTC) as well as the DOE's central book storage
facility. The FTTC will become operational in 1996. It also procured and delivered furniture
and equipment for the primary schools and the FTTC, and procured and distributed about 2.0
million textbooks. However, the management of the textbooks component, which was to be
carried out first by a temporary task force, then by the National Textbook Service, was entirely
subcontracted to the local representative of the British Council.
14.   The project also provided specialist services, training, and equipment to strengthen the
education sector's institutional capacity as planned, but carried out only a limited program of
studies to improve the basis for the evaluation of teacher training, sector planning, education
financing and future investments, as originally intended. The Project provided funding for the
operation of the PIU.



4
15.   Project impact. Although the project delivered (to a varying extent) the planned
inputs, its overall impact is negligible. There is consensus among all parties involved that
access to primary education deteriorated beyond what can be explained by the civil war, that
the quality of education has worsened ', and that the education sector's institutional capacity
today is even weaker than it was in 1983. Thus the project failed to.have a significant impact,
and the Government's long-term objective of increasing the primary enrollment ratio remains
an unmet challenge.
16.   Project design and policy framework. The project did not include major sector
policy objectives other than the reduction of the length of primary education. Details of policy
reform and resource allocations, two areas crucial to the project's success, seem to have been
given little attention during project preparation, and less during implementation. A review of
the files suggests that the interaction with the DOE concentrated on project implementation in
the narrow sense (i.e. procurement, disbursement and accounting issues), with an additional
bias towards ensuring the delivery of physical inputs at the expense of institutional and capacity
building elements.
17.   The project's environment. It seems fair to conclude that it is not the project design
itself which explains the weak impact but rather the failure by both parties to effectively
monitor project implementation and to effectively respond to the deterioration of the sectoral
environment. A total of five (5) amendments to the Credit Agreement were concluded, of
which four (4) related to disbursement procedures and categories, and only one to the
extension of the project's Closing Date.
18.   Costs, financing, and implementation timetables. The project was estimated to cost
US$27.3 million equivalent, of which US$20.0 million was to be covered by Credit 1353-SL,
US$1.9 million by the ODA contribution, and US$5.4 million by the Government. Actual
costs are difficult to determine mainly because of incomplete data regarding Government
contributions and the steep fall in the Leone vis-a-vis the US$ (from Le 1.251US$ at appraisal
to Le 950/US$ in 1995). Total disbursements from the Credit amount to US$18.7 million.
The ODA contribution was about US$1.9 million equivalent as planned and Government's
financing totaled US$ 1.6 million. This would bring the total cost of the reduced project to
about US$ 22.2 million, just over 75% of the appraisal figure. The project was expected to be
implemented in 64 months. Actual implementation took 148 months, a time overrun of seven
years, caused mainly by the five year hiatus of disbursement suspension from 1987 to 1992.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.   Four major factors had a negative effect on project performance. Two were
within partial or complete control of Government: (i) lack of sound macro-economic and
sectoral policies with resulting budgetary difficulties; and (ii) ineffective implementation
' At the time of appraisal, internal efficiency of primary education, an important dimension of quality, was
considered "average or above average compared with other West African countries"(SAR, para 1.22). It now
takes 27 students years to produce one graduate from the six-year course- an extremely low level of
productivity.



5
arrangement that impeded both project ownership and implementation capacity development in
the Department of Education. The factors largely beyond the influence of Government were:
(iii) the civil strife, particularly in the rural areas; and (iv) the weakness and discontinuity of
IDA's supervision efforts aggravated by the long disbursement suspension and the
deteriorating security situation towards the end of project implementation.
20.   Macro-economic and sector policies. While adverse external developments may have
contributed to the economic decline during the 1980s, the Government's inappropriate macro-
economic and fiscal management policies and wasteful public expenditure patterns are more
fundamental causes of the economy's poor performance. The precipitous decline in budgetary
revenues in the first half of the 1980s forced sharp cutbacks in expenditures, from about 3.1
percent of GDP in 1980/81 to only some 1.6 percent of GDP in 1987/88. As a consequence,
the education sector was grossly underfunded, with primary education suffering the most. The
sector's share in the Government's total recurrent budget declined from 13.6 percent in
1980/81, to a low 5.5 percent in 1986/87. In constant 1984/85 prices, recurrent expenditures
fell from Le 62 per student in 1980/8 1, to Le 13 in 1986/87. Outside the project, only notional
amounts have been spent on textbooks or other instruction materials or on routine maintenance
of school buildings. Supervision of schools and teachers virtually ceased due to lack of
vehicles, shortages of fuel, and other logistical problems. As a direct consequence of the
Government's poor economic performance, Credit disbursernents were suspended from 1987
to 1992, bringing the project to a total standstill. Furthermore, even at the height of the
budgetary crisis, the education sector did not maximize the use of existing resources. Most
importantly, the student teacher ratio declined from 35:1 to 24: 1.
21.   Implementation arrangements. The decision to entrust project management to an
existing PIU, located in the DOF, had a negative impact on performance, capacity building and
sustainability. Since DOE comprehension of its ownership to the project was minimal from the
beginning, it undertook no effective monitoring of project implementation. The existence of a
semi-autonomous PIU also might have been responsible for IDA's rudimentary policy dialogue
with DOE: implementation and project related crisis management took precedence over
sectoral issues such as the recording and analysis of education indicators, resource allocation
and the development of a comprehensive strategy. Only in June 1995, six months before
project closing, did the Government finally integrate the PIU into the DOE.
22.   Security situation. Since 1991 Sierra Leone has been plagued by a low-level armed
conflict which is estimated to have claimed more than 10,000 lives. Rebels of the
Revolutionary United Front (RUF) do not hold major towns but rely on hit-and-run attacks on
highways and towns which made, much of the interior inaccessible and put additional strain on
already weakened public services, particularly in late 1994 and early 1995. With about a third
of Sierra Leone's population displaced, the provision of education in the relevant rural areas
collapsed while additional strain was put on urban schools. In addition, DOE had to organize
primary education in refugee camps, in the safe areas and in Guinea. The impact on the project
was twofold: construction of primary schools and provision of goods and services were
hampered, particularly in remote rural areas; and the DOE had to devote all its attention and
management capacity to the emergency situation. Government, in agreement with IDA tried in
I



6
early 1995 to respond to the deteriorating security situation by relocating construction sites to
safe areas. For the project, the armed conflict made an already bad situation worse.
23.   IDA Project supervision. Supervision of the Project by IDA was negatively affected
by high staff turnover and the fact that staff did not spend sufficient time in the field to apprise
themselves of the situation and to effectively monitor implementation (see paras. 29-31, Bank
Performance). This was aggravated by both the suspension of disbursements and, from 1991
on, the deteriorating security situation.
E.    PRoJEcT SUSTAINABILrrY
24.   The sustainability of the physical outputs provided by the project, namely the primary
schools, the textbook storage facilities and the FTTC will depend on the allocation from the
Government of sufficient resources to the education sector and, in turn, on the efficient use of
these resources by the DOE for operation and maintenance. In the context of the Structural
Adjustment Program over the last three years, the Government increased resource allocations
to the social sectors. Thus, there is reason for guarded optimism that project facilities will be
used and maintained. The DOE could further enhance the prospects for the project's
sustainability by improving the intra-sectoral resource allocation and by increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness of resource use. But it will require extemal support and technical
advise and monitoring under the next project to make any significant progress in this area.
25.   The question of sustainability of the project's quality improvement and institutional
capacity components is moot as the objectives where not achieved. The DOE has given little,
if any, attention to institute durable mechanisms for textbook provision, school financing,
planning and monitoring, or personnel management for teachers. The lack of institutional
capacity in these and other areas is a problem of significant importance as it affects any future
investment in the sector. Since sustainability depends critically on borrower commitment and
the sector policy environment, a firm basis of understanding between Borrower and IDA
should exist before any further investments are agreed upon.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   Project identification, preparation and appraisal. The Bank's performance is
considered highly satisfactory throughout the identification and preparation stage, and
satisfactory during appraisal. Resources allocated were generous and significant support and
guidance were given to the Borrower. Significant sector work, carried out in close
cooperation with UNESCO and the DOE, preceded project preparation. However, during
appraisal, early warning signs regarding the performance of the PIU were not sufficiently
heeded while too little attention had been given to the details of strengthening the institutional
capacity of DOE. Project monitoring and performance indicators were largely absent from the
project documents, maidng consistent project supervision and ex-post evaluation much more
difficult. Indicators were mainly limited to inputs (classrooms built, teachers trained, textbooks
distributed, instead of additional numbers of students enrolled or teachers deployed).



7
27.   Another design flaw concerned the Project Fund in the amount of LelOO,000 which the
Government was to establish for counterpart contributions to the project costs. In view of
recent inflationary developments (over 22 percent p.a. between 1980 and 1982, and 67 percent
the following year) this provision was insufficient. By the time of the 1987 disbursement
suspension, the value of the Fund had shrunk to under Le 7,000 in constant 1983 prices. It
would have been preferable to have specified the amount in US$ equivalencies. Admittedly,
this would not have afforded protection against a potential progressive overvaluation of the
national currency, but during the period 1980-1994, domestic inflation and exchange rates in
Sierra Leone moved roughly in tandem.
28.   Project supervision. IDA's performance during supervision was not at the required
level. During the initial three years of the project (1983-1985), three missions were carried
out, each spending on average about eight days in the country, as compared to eleven missions
(1981-1983) in the three years prior to effectiveness, with an average stay of nine days (see
Table 13). Despite the rapid build-up of substantial disbursement lag, supervision missions
continued to be optimistic and accepted general assurances rather than seeking agreements
with the Government on time-specific measures to address the issues.
29.   The SAR had characterized the PIU as "well managed and efficient", and during almost
the entire implementation period this belief remained unshaken, despite ample evidence to the
contrary. Until 1989, the performance of the PIU was given the highest possible rating (1),
and even thereafter the rating never dropped below a still satisfactory level (2). Only gradually
did a more realistic assessment take hold: a Form 590 prepared in 1988 reduced the summary
rating from 1 to 3, and to 4, the worst rating, one year later. Even then, however, the rating
for project management performance remained at the highest level, thus effectively absolving
the PIT from any responsibility for implementation weaknesses.
30.   No drastic management action to address the poor performance of the PIU was
recommended until late in the project. Considering the recurring references in the files to the
PIU's continuous difficulties in managing the project and following IDA procurement and
disbursement guidelines, it is difficult to understand why the supervision missions continued to
see the project in such a favorable light. One possible explanation for the generous
performance ratings and the uncritical appreciation of the PIU by the respective task managers,
is the latter's short tenure: project supervision after effectiveness was handled by nine different
task managers. In other words, the average task manager stayed on the job for less than a year
and an half which was not enough time for acquiring a thorough first-hand knowledge of the
project and establishing solid working relationships with the PIU and the other relevant
government agencies. However, inexperience alone does not amount to a satisfactory
explanation. IDA staff have to accept its share in the project's unsatisfactory outcome.
G.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   Project preparation and implementation. On balance, the Borrower's perfonnance
during project preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during project
implementation is rated as deficient for not maintaining a stable economic and budgetary
environment and specifically, for not implementing the project in a timely and efficient manner.



8
Although the PIU was well staffed and paid, comprising a total of sixty-nine well-paid
employees (as of February 1995), its performance remained unsatisfactory for the entire
period. Repeated violations of the Bank's disbursement and procurement procedures caused
friction with suppliers as well as with IDA, even leading, in the last year, to a case of
misprocurement. Furthermore, yearly audit reports were often late and not of the required
standard, and counterpart funds were not provided regularly.
32.   Fortunately, project implementation ended on a more hopeful note. In stark contrast to
the meager achievements of its predecessor, the much smaller but obviously motivated project
unit set up in the Department of Education,with the help of a committed minister, performed
relatively well: in less than a year, the FTTC was completed and equipped while the number of
completed classrooms rose for 45 to 328, with another 63 nearly finished (70 to 99 percent
completion rate). This last hour effort which succeeded despite continuing budget constraints
and with the civil war still going on, was a significant achievement.
33.   Covenants compliance. The Borrower's compliance with credit covenants during
project implementation was on the whole satisfactory. The major requirement which has not
been met despite a cabinet decision in December 1984 to the effect, has been the increase in
the primary student/teacher ratio from 35:1 to 45:1. However, the Government could
reasonably point to the disruptive influence, both on the level and distribution of enrollments,
of the long-lasting civil strife, and to the practical difficulties of achieving such a large increase
in the first place.
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The outcome of the Third Education Project is rated as unsatisfactory. Although the
majority of physical inputs were delivered, its major objectives in terms of access and quality of
primary education and institutional development were not achieved.
L     FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   To contribute to the rehabilitation, reconstruction and development of the education
sector, a two steps approach is considered. Firstly, an Education Institutional Development
Project (EIDP) is planned for FY97. Its main purpose is to: (a) address the inefficiencies in
the allocation and use of resources in the sector through measures aimed at improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of budgetary allocations, financing of assisted schools and use of
teachers; (b) increase the institutional capacity of the sector education sector through (i)
strengthening its administrative and managerial capabilities; (ii) reinforcing the institutional and
technical conditions for quality improvement, and (c) increase access to, and retention at,
primary level. Secondly, a sector investment program aimed at the consolidation, expansion
and quality improvement of education would be developed by FY 99, building on the
managerial capacity established by the EIDP.



9
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
36.   The experience of the Third Education Project offers operational lessons relating to
project design, administrative arrangements, and the supervision process.
37.   Project implementation should be entrusted to the beneficiary line agency rather than an
outside unit, to ensure project ownership, to build capacity, and to create better conditions for
an ongoing policy dialogue.
38.   To facilitate monitoring and evaluation, projects should include performance indicators
that go beyond the mere recording of inputs. Thus, instead of incremental enrollments, the
occupancy rates of new or expanded schools and their distribution by grade, gender and
location should be reported; availability of books per student or class, rather than total
numbers produced and distributed, should be determined; and the actual deployment of
teachers, rather than numbers recruited or upgraded, should be followed. Moreover,
monitoring systems need to be operational at the time of effectiveness.
39.   Within the Bank, greater staffing stability (particularly for task managers) is imperative.
This would contribute to the betterment of their contributions to project implementation,
planning and policy formulation as well as project preparation through accumulated knowledge
and experience of the country, the sector and the people. At the same time, management
review of form 590s needs to be strengthened to avoid that mis-assessments by task managers,
as in the case of the PIU, does not go undetected for several years.
40.   Once projects that have been suspended for an extended period, more attention should
be given to evaluate the viability of the original project design before resuming operation. The
longer the interruption, the higher the probability that the project loses momentum and
ownership, and is no longer consistent with the changed environment.
41.   Finally, the Bank's emphasis on upstream project development at the cost of
downstream project supervision, often denounced but not yet overcome, still needs attention to
ensure satisfactory results on the ground.



PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A   Ach1iJt ofrOiefiv SubsntP                                                                           Not klicle
MaroPolcies                              Q                   Q                   Q                    0
Sector Policies                            Q                  Q                   I                     0
Finmanil Objecti                           a                   az                          
Instiationl Development                    Q                   0                   0                    0
Physiccl O1 jcv                            0                  IS                  0                    0
PoveuqyReduction                           Q                   5                   5                    0
Gendrlus                                   11                 1:                  O3                   1
OGerSocialObjetiv                          5                   5                      
Envinmental Objweves                       5                  53                                        0m
Public Sector MwAiganet                    [J                 55                                        0
Prinvate Sector Developnent                EJ                 L3                  L3                    0
B.Prme Slitn                                                                                           UO
C. B_WuEfa.,
Idntificabion                              0                             0                              5
Prepaain Aun                                0                            0                              0
Supevision                                 0                             0                              0
D.  BSwer P affday                                                          f l
hpsaion                                     0                                                             QB
PIrpemmton                                  0                            a
CovemnComplace                              0                             0l                              0
O                  O                   0                    0



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                Year of   Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Cr. 01700 - Education I   Support GOSL to: (a) diversify and  1969    Closed
expand secondary and vocational
education; (b) expand primary teacher
training facility; and (c) improve
educational planning and administration.
2. Cr. 05730 - Education I   Support GOSL to: (a) increase     1975     Closed
employment prospects of vocational and
general secondary school graduates
through upgrading facilities and
educational programs; (b) strengthen the
educational planning and management
capacity of the DOE, the Institute of
Education, and the University of Sierra
Leone; and (c) establish training capacity
for public administration and
management, and rural development.
3. Cr. 09700 - Technical  Support to GOSL in the areas of: (a)  1979    Closed
Assistance Project     development planning; (b) manpower
strengthening; and (c) preparation,
monitoring and evaluation of public
investment programs.
Operation reviewed
4. Cr. 13530 - Education 11  Improvement in quality and increased  1983  Closed
access to primary education, as well as
strengthening of institutional capacity.
Following operations                                            _
1. P-811 -0-SL           PPF-Advance to assist GOSL in         1993    Ongoing
preparing a Basic Education Project by:
(a) creation of a project coordination
unit, (b) studies, and (c) specialist
services.
2. P-811-1-SL            Supplementary PPF Advance             1993    Ongoing



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Project Brief)            February 19801        February 1980
Preparation                               May 1980'              1980- 1981
Appraisal                                 December 19811        January 1982
Negotiations                              September 19821       February 1983
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)  N/A               N/A
Board Presentation                        October 19821         May 3, 1983
Signing                                  May 1983               May 20, 1983
Effectiveness                             August 1983           August 16, 1983
Midterm review (if applicable)            N/A                   N/A
Project Completion                        December 31, 19882    December 31, 1996
Loan Closing                              December 31, 1989     December 31, 1996
lInitial Project Brief dated Februawy 15, 1980
2 Technical Data Sheet datod May 3, 1983



13
Table 4A: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
FY83   FY84   FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94 FY95    FY96
Appraisal Estimate       720  4,440   9,120 13,900   17,600   19,700  20,000 2
Actual                   262   1,370   3,082  4,346   4,660   4,692   4,693    -        -    5,354  6,691  10,432 15,155 18,553
Achtalas%ofEstimate    36%    30%    33%   31%         26%      23%     23%
Undisburscd3                                                                                                              6,669
Date of Final Disbursement April 30,1996
2The difference between the appraisal and achal costs of the project are due to the exchange rate between the SDR and the USS dollars.
3As of May 12, 1996



14
Table 5: Key Indicatorn for Project Implementation
I. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report              Estimated                      Actual
1. Prinary education
A primary education cycle of 6  Reduction of primary education   Primary education cycle reduced to
years.                          cycle from 7 to 6 years.     6 years (1986).
Increased student/teacher ratio.  From 35/1 to 45/1 between  Student/teacher ratio decreased from
1982/83 and 1991/92.         35/1 to 24/1 during the period. This
is due partly to the civil war but
mostly to inefficient management of
staff.
Planned primary classrooms and  Construction and equipment of   328 have been completed of which
staff houses built and equipped.  500 classrooms (22, 500    283 in 1995. The completion rate of
students) and 66 staff houses.    the remaining classrooms is as
foUows: 63 (70-99%); 33 (50-69%)
and the rest is less than 50%. 44
staff houses are completed. The
completion rate of the remaining
houses is as follows: 10 (70- 99%/o),
5 (50-69%/o, and the rest is at less
than 50 %.
2. Primary teacher training
Improvement of primawy education   Construction and equipment of a  The FTTC has been completed in
teachers' training.             primary education Teachers'  mid- December 1995. Furniture and
Training College (FTTC).     equipment were received in
November 1995.
3. Textbooks and teachers' guides
National Textbooks Service      Creation of a National       The NTS was not established by
established.                    Textbooks Service (NTS).     June 30, 1986 as agreed upon. The
Textbooks Task Force created in
1983 (intended to be temporary)
survived with project financing until
June 1995, when it was integrated
as a regular service the National
Curriculum Development Center.



15
Development of a technical    The task force, with the help of
capacity for textbook adaptation/ consultants (30 months under ODA
writing and publishing.       and 6 months under IDA financing
starting in 1993) undertook the
development/ adaptation of primary
textbooks for: Mathematics grades
1-6 (manuscript ready); sciences
grades 3-4 (manuscripts completed
and tested and for grades 5-6:
manuscripts); practical arts new text:
manuscripts for grades 1-5
completed; English grades 1-2
(manuscripts completed); Social
studies grades 1-3 (completed).
Supplementary readers: 3
supplementary readers produced.
Primary textbooks developed,    Procurement of about I million    About 1,261,000 textbooks
printed/procured, distributed to  primary textbooks, readers and    procured and distributed; about
schools.                        dictionaries and 125,000       80,000 textbooks were destroyed
teachers guides (ODA          during the riots of February 1987.
financing).
About 704,000 textbooks, 89,000
Printing/procurement of about    readers and 85,000 atlases procured
900,000 additional textbooks  and distributed. Although most of
and readers following the     the textbooks arrived at the schools,
resumption of operation in 1992   some were lost in the destruction of
(IDA financing)               the Miles 91 warehouse, and an
unknown number disappeared and
later sold privately in the streets.
Availability of teaching materials    Procurement of 2.5 millions  Exercise books procured in 1995.
exercise books.
Local specialist trained in textbooks  15 months training on textbooks  8 months training provided for
related techniques .            publishing, editing and        publishing and editing.
distribution.
The Central storage facility and  Central storage facility and 9  The rehabilitation of the central
existing districts book warehouses   districts warehouses     storage facility and the warehouses
rehabilitated and operating.    rehabilitated, equipped and    in the districts of Kambia, Kenema,
operating efficiently.        Makeni and Port Loko completed. A
new warehouse was built in the Bo
district as the previous one was
destroyed during the riots of
February 1987.



16
A total of 1600 steel lockers
delivered to schools (1450 prior to
the disbursement suspension).
Training of store and warehouse  A total of 5 weeks training provided
keepers.                       to the central storage facility and to
the warehouse keepers.
6 weeks training abroad provided to
textbook distribution manager.
4. Training of Administrative and
Educational Staff
- Central administration/Regional    45 two- week workshops      Implementation was sub-contracted
high level staff and principals of  planned for training in     to the Institute of Public
TTC trained;                     management related fields for 30  Administration and Management. Of
central and regional high level    the planned 30 workshops (first
- School supervisors, Teacher    staff and TTC principals and   phase), 17 were carried out prior to
supervisors and Head Teachers    about 1,000 school supervisors,  the disbursement suspension (4-5
trained.                         teacher supervisors and head   days training for about 50 parti-
teachers                       cipants). In addition, (i) 190 short
workshops on school management
were held for 1900 head teachers,
(ii) 14 mini-courses were conducted
in the districts for about 180
inspectors, supervisors and school
managers. Following the resumption
of activities in 1992, 2 short
workshops for inspectors and 28 (4
days) for head teachers were planned
out of which the 2 and 15,
respectively were carried out.
5. Educational Planning
Staff trained in education planning,  Provision of 27 months of  Five staff were trained abroad for a
statistics and school mapping.   training for three local staff in    total of 50 months in the fields of
the fields of educational      educational planning and statistics.
planning.                      4 years of technical assistance were
provided in the field of educational
planning and educational facilities.
6. Evaluation
Local specialists trained in     Provision of 48 months for
evaluation.                      training in research methods and
evaluation for two local staff.
7. Project unit                  Professional services for and  Professional services provided
PIU operational.                 equipment.                     (Architectural design, quantity
surveyors, administrative support,
accounting and audit), and Rehab-
ilitation and equipment of PIU.



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for future project operation
Project impact to be
maintained                       Issues                 Action to be taken
1. Access to primary       1. Unfinished civil work and   1. Government/communities to
education.                 equipment of classrooms     complete with IDA the unfinished
unfinished under the project.  classrooms works and equipment;
2. Review with the Department of
2. High schooling costs to    education current financing policies
parents.                   of assisted schools and develop
policies geared towards a reduction
3. Education sector budgetary  of non-educational costs to parents;
constraints.               3. Increase first the efficiency in the
allocation and use of the existing
resources to promote primary
education and second ensure
progressive increase of the sector
share in the overall budget;
2. Quality of education.    1. Limited financial and    1. Pre-and in-service training of
human resources for teachers  inspectors.
in- service- training.     2. Use of Teacher Training
2.. Limited use of textbooks   Colleges and staff for vacation in
in classrooms.             service training.
3. Limited resources for   3. Inclusion of textbooks use as part
renewal of textbooks.      of on pre-and in-service training.
4. Develop conditions for textbooks
renting/cost recovery scheme with
government contribution.
3. Institutional development.  1. DOE's weak           1. Integrate the PIU as a
implementation capacity;   construction and equipment service
2. Overall Weak management  within the Department of education
of the education sector.   and provide necessary training and
specialist services.
2. Focus under the next education
project on the institutional
development of the DOE
managerial capacity.



18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined     Status         Impact of Study
1. Teacher training.   Study of the efficiency,   Different studies on  The studies permitted (i) a
training capacity,    the utilization,   reduction of the length of
utilization and demand   demand and quality  primary education teachers
for teachers in primary   of primary     training form 3 to 2 years; (ii)
education.            education teachers  an awareness on the
were held.        inefficiency in use of teachers
and related dialogue as part of
the preparation of the new
education project.
2. Organization of a   Study of organizational,  Completed, with  National Textbooks Service
National Textbooks   legal and financial   contribution from  not established. Temporary
Service.           framework for National  consultants in 1985.  textbook task force created in
Textbooks (June 1985).                   April 30, 1983 continued to
manage the textbooks
component until June 1995
when it was integrated in the
National Curriculum
Development Center.
3. Textbooks        Study of distribution,    Study contracted in  Initial findings fed back into
management and use.  storage and use of    1985 to the        distribution of textbooks.
primary textbooks.    Department of
Education
(University of Sierra
Leone), only partly
completed.
4. Evaluation of    Study of the impact of   The study was    Result communicate to the
textbooks impact.    the textbooks        undertaken by the   textbooks task force. Elements
component on student   Department of     of this study as well as of the
achievement,          Education of the   education sector study below
attendance, and primary  University of Sierra  were used were for the
promotion rates.      Leone and          preparation of Sierra Leone
completed in 1989   documents for the Jomtien
conference
An evaluation of the  The study found inadequate
use of             supplies of reading materials
supplementary      and ineffective use of books;
reading materials in  Better pre- and in service
two districts was    training of teachers needed.
carried out in 1994.  Duration and content of pre-
service teachers' training
revised in 1995.



19
5. Plan for the                          Plan was submitted  This work let to the collection
strengthening of the                     to IDA (June 1985). and publication of regular
planning unit.                                              education statistics until
1991/92.
Educational sector    Not planned        Completed in
study.                                   August 1987.
Sierra Leone       Not planned           Completed in 1992   Study used in the preparation
Education Sector                                            of the 6-3-3-4 reform of the
Survey                                                      education system and related
National Education Plan.
Census of schools  Not planned           Completed in 1993   Study used in the policy
and teachers                                                dialogue to improve use of
teachers.



20
Table 8A: IDA Financed Project Costs
(USS million)
Category                  Estimated at    Actual at    Percentage
Appraisal'       ICR2        Disbursed
1.  Civil Works                             10.0           7. 44         74%
| 2.  Furniture, Equipment, Spare Parts      1. 9          5.00         263%
3.  Professional Fees                        0.3           0.23          77%
4.  Specialist Services (expatriate)         0. 7          0. 52         74%
5.  Specialist Services (local)             0. 4           0. 55         137%
6.  Training                                0. 3           0.43          143%
7.  Operating Costs                          1. 1          1. 90         172%
8.  Textbooks                               0. 0           2. 14          --
9.  Physical Contingencies                   1. 2            -           N/A
10. Price contingencies                     4. 1            --           N/A
Total Project Costs                         20. 0          18.55        92.70/.4
Note: Figures may not add up due to roundings.
4 However, because of the evolution of the exchange rate between the SDR and the USS, the total amount in USS
available for the project is USS25.3. On this basis, the total disbursement under the project as of May 12, 1996, is
73.3 percent.



21
Table SB: Project Financing
Source        Appraisal Estimate (US$ M)           Actual (US$ M)
Local    Foreign     Total      Local   Foreign     Total
Costs      Costs                Costs    Costs
IBRD/IDA           11.9        8.1       20.0     -                      18.7
ODA                            1.9        1.9    -                        1.9
Government          5.4        0.0        5.4    --         -             1.6
TOTAL             17.3       10.0       27.3     -         -            22.2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The net present value (or economic rate of return) was not estimated.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section Cov_at Pret  Origl   Revised                     Description of                    Comments
type    stdus  fulfillment fulfillmt             covenant
date      date
SLm      2.03(a) 1        C                            The Borrower shall open a Special   The amount of USS 450,000 was
Account in a financial institution  maintained in the SA.
satisfactory to IDA
2.05    5       NYD    23/31/89  12/31/95   The closing date shall be December 31,   The Closing Date was extended to
1989, or such later date as IDA nay  December 31, 1995.
establish.
3.02    S       SOON                         The Borrower shall maintain the existing  P1U staff reduced by half in 1995.
Project Unit with suitable personnel in
adequate numbers for the purpose of
coordinating Project execution.
3.04(a) 7       C                            The Borrower shall maintain the existing  Project Fund Account was
Project Fund in the Project Unit for  maintained at the Bank of Sierra
purposes of financing the Borrower's  Leone.
contribution to the investment costs of the
Project.
3.04(c) 7       C                            The Borrower shall deposit in the Project Funds were allocated in 1995 (Le
Fund on a quarterly basis such amounts as 100,000,000) but not released
shall be required to replenish the Project  completely.
Fund with amounts equal to payments
made out of the Project Fund for the
expenditures for the Project referred to in
para. 3.04(a) above.
3.05    5       C                            The Borrower shall employ engineering,  Architect and quantity surveymg
educational and architectural consultants  services wer procured.
and other specialists whose quaifications,
experience and terms of reference and
conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to IDA, such consultants and
specialists to be selected in accordance
with IDA procedures.
3.06    10      C        12/31/83            The Borrower shall by December 31, 1983 Sites made available.
select and furnish to IDA for review and
approval a list of all proposed sites for the
rural prinary schools (RPS) and staff
housing construction program .
3.07    S                                    The Borrower shall award the fellowships Complied with.
under the Project to suitably qualified
persons to participate in training programs
satisfactory to IDA
SLm      3.08    5        c       08/31/83             The Borrower shall by August 31, 1983:  Task force was esablished. The
(a) establish a Task Force (TF), the  adviuory committee was created
members of which shall be suitably  but did not operate adequately.
qualified, for the purpose of developing,  New Textbooks development
inquiring, storing and distributng  caried out, as part of the
textbooks under the Project; and (b)  Education Reform (revision of the
appoint an advisory committee, the  primary education curriculum)
members of which shall be suitably
qualified, to advise the TF Chairman
referred to in para. (a) above.



23
Agreement Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised               Description of                     Comnments
type    status  fulflment fulfillment              covenant
date      date
3.09     3        c                            The Borrower shall by August 31 of each   New Agreement between PIU &
year, furnish to IDA for review and   IPAM5 (2/13193) for workshops
approval the final program and cost  resource persons and consultants
estimate for the series of workshops for the  & 28 district workshops for
forthcoming school year for the training of  headmasters, teachers and
administrative and education staff under    supavisors.
Part B. l of the Project.
3.09(a)   10      c       12/31/83             Furnish to IDA for review and comment not Planing Unit weak. No data
later than December 31, 1983, a plan for   collected by the Unit since
strengthening the Planning Unit and start   1991/92.
implementing the said plan not later than
July 1, 1985; and
5        c                            (b) award fellowships in educational  Four staff trained.
planning to staff in established positions in
the Planning Unit
3.09(b)  5        c       06/30/85             The Borrower shall; (a) by June 30, 1985,  Revised and final report
prepare IDA for review and comment a  submitted to IDA in December
study, together with the appropriate draft   1992.
documentation, of the organizational, legal
and financial framework for a National
book service; and
3.11 (b)  5               06/30/86             (b) by June 30, 1986, put into operation  Contract signed with British
such national book service.           Council in April 1993 to carry
out the IDA financed textbook
component. About 1.2 million
textbooks delivered to the DOE,
plus about 0.5 million financed
by AfdB.
3.12(a)  10                                    The Borrower shall; (a) carry out the  Complied with.
studies included in the Project in
accordance with research designs
satisfactory to IDA; and
3.12(b)  9                12/31/86             (b)byDecember 31, 1986, fumish to DA   Complied with.
for review and comment the conclusions
and recommendations of the teacher
training study, the textbook user study and
the textbook study included in Part B.4 of
the Project.
3.13(a)  9,3      C       12/31/83             TheBorrowershall;(a)byDecember31,   PrimnaryEducationreceived48%
1983, funish to IDA for review and    of the 1995 Budget.
comment a plan for the execution of
measures to improve the utilization of
resources available for primary education,
such measures to include the following:
3.13(aXi) 10      C                            (i) a reduction in the duration of primary    All pupils who entered the Ist
education from 7 to 6 years for all classes   grade during the 1985/86 school
entering the first grade in the 1984-85  year are pursuing a six-year
school year, and                      primary cycle.
In utlite of Planinug Admnsutation and Management.



24
Agreernent  Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised                      Description of                          Comments
type     status  fulfillment fulfillment                 covenant
date        date
3.13(aXi) 10        NC                               (ii) a gradual increase in the student-teacher Early in the project,
ration in the primary school system by     teacher/pupil ratio gradually
increasing the basis for calculating annual  increased. However, they have
salary grants provided by the Borrower to   now fallen to 24:1.
employment authorities through and
increase of one student per year in such
ration starting with the ration of 35:1 in the
82/83 school year and ending with 40:1 by
91/92 with annual circular issued by
Borrower,
3.13 (c)   9                  12/31/85                (c) preparation of an evaluation report on
the progress in the execution of the
measures taken pursuant to para.(a) above
and, by December 31, 1985, review with
IDA the conclusions and recommendations
of such evaluation report including the
possibility of accelerating the rate of
increase of the pupil-teacher ration as noted
in para.(a) above
3.14       9        C                                 The Borrower shall, by August 31 of each   See Section 3.09 (IPAM
year, prepare and furnish to IDA for review Agreement).
and comment detailed plans for the use of
the travel funds by the inspectorate staff of
the DOE of the Borrower during the
forthcoming school year and a report on the
use of such funds during the preceding
school year.
4.01(c)    I        C                                 The Borrower shall: (I) have the Special    Audit report for FY94 has been
Account, the Project Fund and accounts    received. Because of the
given in para (b) of audited fro each fiscal  weaknesses in the report IDA
year by independent auditors. A certified    that demanded that service of a
copy of such audit including separate      new Auditor be procured. This
opinion by said auditors of the expenditures took some time. The Audit
and records shall be furnished to IDA not   report for 1995 is expected.
later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Covenant types:
1. -  Acounts/audits                                    S.  = Indigenous people
2. -  Financial pfomnce/revenus generation from         9. = Monitoring, review, and repoting
beneficiarie                                    10. = Projec implementaion not covered by categories 1-9
3. -  Flow and utilization of project fimda            11. = Sectoral or crowsectoral budgetary or other resource
4. -  Countepart funding                                      allocation
5. -  Managan_t aset of the project or execting        12. = Sectoral or cross-secoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                 action
6. -  Evirmxnenal covenanls                            13. = Other
7. -  Invohluta  reetlement
S. Present Status:
C - covenant complied with
CD - complied with after delay
CP -  complied with parlly
NC -  not complied with



25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title      | Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1OD. 11.00. Procurement.                (Para 8 1). Part of the exercises books were
not procured in accordance with agreed
procedures. This led IDA to declare a
mnisprocurement case and to request the
reimbursement of the 165,000 sterling pound,
equivalent to the amount of the contract.
2.OD 13.05. Supervision.                 (Para.4). Resources allocated for the
supervision of the project were not
commensurate with the borrower's weak
institutional capacity.
(Paras. 5 and 6). Supervision mission did not
handle the project managerial and
implementation problems with the needed
frankness to help in their solution.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned               Revised             Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$      Weeks    US$6
Through Appraisal                                               59.6      57.0
Appraisal-Board                                                 47.5      92.4
Board-Effectiveness                                             9.6       17.0
Supervision                                                     147.3    421.1
Completion                                                      7        6.9
TOTAL                                                          271      594.4
Source: World Bank Cost Accounting System.
6 Data include non salary costs only.



26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                  Specialized            Implementation    Development
Stage of        Month/       of      Days in       Staff Skills              Status          Objectives       Types of
Project Cycle      Year      Persons   Field7        Represented                                                Problemns
Through Appraisal     10/79      1           1          EDC                           -                -                -
03/80      5          9           EDC (2), SOC, ARC,            -                -                -
ECN
07/80      2          5           ECN, ARC                      -                -                -
10/80     1           4          ARC                            -                -                -
11/80     1           5          EDC                            -                -                -
12/80     1           4          EDC                            -                -                -
01/81      1          5           ECN                           -                -                -
02/81      2          5           EDC, ARC                      -                -                -
05/81      1          3           ECN                           -                -                -
06/Si      1          7           ARC                           -                -                -
06/81      2          4           WAIB                          -                -
10/81     1           8          ECN,EDC                        -                -                -
Appraisl through      01/82      6           17         EDC (2), ECN, ARC,            -                -                -
Board Approval                                          TDC/P, WAIB
08/82      1          6           EDC                           -                -                -
09/82      1          5          ARC                            -                -                -
11/82      1          10         WAIB                           -                -                -
04/83     2           5           EDC, TX                       -                -                -
Board Approval        06/83      1          4           ARC                           -                -                -
through Effectiveness                                                                            .
Supervision           10/S3      2           12         EDC, ARC                       I 
11/84     2           5          EDC, ARC                        I                1               0
07/85     2           7          ECN, ARC                        2                1                F
01/86      1          5           WAIB
04/86      2          6           EDC, ARC                       2                1              F. M
01/87      1          7           ARC                            2                1              F, M
04/87      1          5           EDC                            2                1              F, M
05/87      1          6           ARC                           3                 1              F. M
08/87      1          13         EDC                            3                 1                F
7 Mliolu through Bard Preentation alo Included, to some minor degre, aupervlon work for the Second Education ProjecL



27
Perforiance Rating
Number                 Specialized          nplnemntation   Developnut
Stage of      Month/       of        Days in    Staff Skills           Status         Otedives        Typeo of
Project Cycle     Year     Perso        Field3    Repreeanted                                           Problan
11/87     1          5         EDC
10/88     1          5         0                           3                3              F.
04/90     2          13        0, ARC
03/91     2          12        EP, O
10/92     5          13        ECN (3), EDC, O             3                3             M,O
02193     2          9         ECN, EDC                    3                3              M
11/93     3          1 1       EDC, ARC, 0                 2                2              M
07/94     1          2         0
10/94     2          15        EDC, ARC
03/95     2          12        EDC, ECN                    U                U            M F, O
07/95     1          10        EDC                         U                U            M, F, 0
11/95     3          14        EDC,ECN(2)                  U               U             M,F,0
Completion          03/96     1           7         SOC                                                        MO,O
Source: Form 590s; Back-To-Office Reports
Key to status shown in Supervision Forms 590: Rating from 1 (highest) to 4 (lowest); since 1995:           S (satisfctory), U
(unsatisfactory).
Key to specialized staff skills:    ARC = Architect ECN = Economist              EDC = Educator
TDC/P = Education Printing Expert            EP   Educational Planner
SOC = Sociologist;                           TX   Textbooks Sp.
0 = Operations Officer                       WAIB = Disbursement Officer.
Type of Problems:                   0 = Other; F = Financial; M = Management.
8 Mleo  through Baos Pramtan lo licluded, to s_oe m_mr degre, mpeavnd  ofthe Swd Educatl      m ProjecL



I



APPENDIXES
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower contribution to the ICR
Appendix C: co-financier Contribution to the IC
Appendix D: Map



I



APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






November 22, 1995
SIERRA LEONE
TEHRD EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 1353-SL)
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE
I.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. D. Rouag (Mission Leader, Senior
Education Specialist), F. Fichtl (Economist) and M. Zymelman (Economist, consultant) visited
Sierra Leone from November 5 to 22, 1995. The objectives of the mission were to: (i) supervise
the Third Education Project (Cr. 1353-SL) and discuss the status of the government's
contribution to the implementation completion report (ICR); (ii) analyze the financing of the
education sector and collect relevant information to feed the Edfisimo model; and (iii) review
the status and contribute to the preparation of the proposed Fourth Education Project. Mr. 0.
Pannenborg, Division Chief, AFSPH, joined the mission from November IS to 17, 1995. The
mission wishes to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Ms. Christiana Thorpe, the
coordinators of the Third Education Project and the NEAPIAC, Messrs. A. Seasay and K. Salia-
Bao and all those involved in the project's implementation and preparation for the cooperation
extended.
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Part I: Development of Primary Education
2.     Primary classrooms. Civil works. 500 classrooms, 61 staff houses, 86 pit latrines, and
189 water wells were originally projected to be built by the project. As of today, 210
classrooms, 30 staff houses, 86 pit latrines and 51 water wells have been completed. An
additional 52 classrooms, 6 staff houses, 16 latrines and 22 water wells with a completion rate of
90-99% are expected to be finished by mid- December. All in all, this represents considerable
progress as compared to the status of civil works found during my first supervision mission in
February 1995. Regarding the construction sites negatively affected by the security situation, the
February and July missions had suggested that those sites where work had not yet started be
relocated to safer areas. The mission visited four of these new sites and found that work had
barely started at two sites (digging of the foundation), while at the other two sites it had well
progressed. The finding of the one of the sites took a long time as the project architect failed to
show up in time to guide the mission and the project director seemed not to have previously
visited the site. Fumiture. All contracted primary school furniture has been delivered to the PIU.
Distribution to primary schools is underway.
3.     Freetown Teacher Training college (FTC). The completion of civil works for the FTC
started in August 1995. Works are progressing as planned and are to be completed by December



2
15, 1995. The mission would like to point out that concem has been expressed regarding the
small diameter of pipes for sanitary-effluents. It is suggested that the PIU request the work
supervisor to follow-up and check that standards have been met. Furniture and equipment. The
delivery of furniture for the FTC has been completed. Regarding the delivery of the equipment,
which according to the contract requires the provision of a letter of credit to the contractor prior
to shipment of goods in the amount of 80% of the costs, the PIU has requested and obtained from
the supplier (confurmation fax received) that equipment be shipped while payment will be made
following PrU receipt of the related shipping documents. The supplier will need to ship the
equipment by December 5 at the latest for the equipment to arrive in Freetown in time prior to
the project's closing date. Contractors' complaints. IDA has received numerous complaints
from contractors regarding delays in payment well beyond the payment period specified in the
contracts (28 days). Verification of relevant processes showed that these delays have been due to
the long time--about five weeks--it takes the PIU to prepare the payment applications. The time
for processing of the application outside the PIU seemed adequate: review of payment
documentation by the Public Sector Management Support Project (48 hours); signature at the
Department of Finance (three-four days); document transmission to Washington by DIHL (max.
five days); handling of payment application (max. five working days) and about two weeks for
international payment transfer. This issue was discussed at a meeting with the PIU and the
contractors, and the PIU committed itself to expedite processing of payment applications.
Operation of the new teacher training college (FTC). The transfer of staff and students from the
current location in a Freetown secondary school where they occupy a few rooms only to the FTC
needs to be planned carefully. It has been discussed that administrative and teaching staff move
at the end of December, ahead of the students who will start classes in January '96. Furthermore,
consideration has to be given that the operating costs of the full-fledged FTC at the new location
will certainly be higher than the budget allocated to the FTC sharing premises (budget for FY
1995: Le 145 million). The FY 1996 budget allocation for the FTC should be revised
accordingly and particular importance should be given to maintenance.
4.     Textbooks. The July mission suggested that "it would be useful if the two studies
planned under the project and undertaken in 1985 by the University of Sierra Leone and the DOE
under the first phase of the project's textbooks component (the textbooks use and the textbooks
effectiveness studies) be carried out anew in October/November 1995." The results of such
studies were expected to clarify, taking as an example the Western Area, distribution issues to
and within schools, textbooks survival rates one year after distribution (carried out in late 1994)
as well as the extent of textbooks use in classrooms. Regrettably, no action has been taken on
these issues which would have been helpful for the preparation of the relevant components of the
proposed education project.
ow
5.     Textbooks management contract and procurement of exercise books (British
Council). The mission learned of procurement of exercise books--directly by the Department of
Education--with funds administered by the British Council under a textbooks management
contract (a sub-component of the project). The issue was raised by the mission with the
authorities concerned, particularly the absence of prior consultation with IDA and the possible
lack of adherence to standard procurement procedures. Prior to departure the mission has not
received the relevant documentation supporting the procurement ( invitation, bidding documents,
bids, evaluation, signed contract and shipment certificates). These documents are expected to be
sent to IDA as soon as possible.
Part II: Strengthening Administrative, Planning and Evaluation Capacities



3
Part II: Strengthening Administrative, Planning and Evaluation Capacities
6.    Administrative and educational staff trainine. The second phase of this component, like
the first', was sub-contracted in 1993 to the Institute of Public Administration and Management
(IPAM). The amount allocated to staff training under this component was US$ 180,000, of which
130,828 have been disbursed. The training program was expected to be completed by June 1995.
The two workshops for inspectors were held as well as the 15 others ( for school directors and
teachers) in the districts with 13 workshops still outstanding because of the security situation. IPAM
proposed to undertake 9 more workshops, some of which were to be held in district capitals
accessible by air. In July, the mission suggested, taking into account the time left before the closing
date, that the PIU rapidly pursue discussions with IPAM (i) to define a more realistic training
program and, (ii) to amend cost estimates accordingly.
7.     Since one workshop was organized by IPAM during the last week of July in the Tonkolili
district.2 Two other workshops are planned: in Port Loko early Decemnber and for the inspectors
by mid-December. Although additional workshops are considered (Bo, Kenema), the time
available does not permit their holding prior to the closing date. With regards to the amendment of
the contract with IPAM, no action seems to have been taken. The mission therefore reiterates its
earlier recommendation.
8.    Educational statistics and planning. The last reliable statistics available are those from
1991/92, and those collected during the census of 1993. The school mapping unit has now
completed the development of a data base of primary education3 in the Westem Area. Available
data for 1994/95 cover the type of buildings and the number of classrooms, streams, teachers and
pupils.
9.     The Project Implementation Unit. The rehabilitation of the premises allocated to the
PIU following its attachment to the Department of Education started in August 1995 and is to be
completed by mid-December, 1995. While most of the February mission's recommendations were
implemented by July 1995 (Aide-memoire of July 22, 1995), the one on staff remuneration and
benefits for PIU staff, was not acted upon. Countergart Funds and Special Account. The
discussions held with the project accountant seen to indicate delays and insufficient provision by
the Government regarding its counterpart contribution to the project. The information requested to
assess and verify the financial status of the project was incomplete. The mission made the
necessary comments and requested that the relevant information be sent to IDA as soon as
possible. As of November 21, 1995, the total amount available in the Special Account was
US$937. There is a clear understanding that reimbursement of applications to the special account
will soon be negligible and the director of the PIU was reminded that by December 31, 1995, the
level of funds in the Special Account will be zero, and that all related expenses should be fully
documented. Expenditures which are not fully documented will have to be reimbursed to IDA.
I The firt phase being prior to project muspension in 1987 and the second phase since resumption of
activities in 1992.
2 See letter of IPAM dated November 17, 1995 with reference # 26/ 04IDA. 13.
' But also for lower and upper secondary schools in the same region.



4
10.    During the previous mission in March 1995, the PITJ was informed that following the
project's completion by December 31, 1995, the govermnent needs to prepare an ICR. This
report will be part of the overall project completion. A draft outline was prepared and agreed
upon. The preparation of the ICR has started and is expected to be completed and sent to IDA by
mid-December.
PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Education sector financing
11.    The more detailed analysis of the financing of the education sector, initially discussed in
February 1995, was carried out by the mission: Education sector budget allocation (FY
1995/96)4. The total education share in GDP is about 3.5%. The sector budget represents about
14% of the government's budget which is somewhat below the average of 16% for Sub-Saharan
Africa. The allocation of resources between levels of education is adequate: 38% for primary
education, 26% for secondary, 20% for tertiary education including the university and the teacher
training colleges and, about 12% for administration, somewhat on the higher side. In primary
education, salaries and allowances represent 77%, material and supplies 13%5, and the grants-in-
aid to assisted schools about 6%. In secondary, salaries and allowances are allocated 72%,
materials 3% and the grant-in aid about 24% (Annex I).
12.    In spite of the of the adequate distribution of resources, efficiencv is very low. It takes
about 27 years to produce a primary education graduate and 80% of the entrants do not achieve a
fourth grade education, the necessary standard to achieve permanent literacy. (Annexe II).
13.    The distortion between adequate allocation of resources and the dismal efficiency of the
education system, particularly with respect to primary education, is due to two main factors:
Firstly, the high economic cost to parents to send, and to keep, their children in school; and
secondlv the low level of salaries for teachers which negatively affects teaching behavior.
(i)    The private costs of schooling in form of fees, textbooks, uniforms, etc.
(estimated at an average of US$ 17.50 at primary level and US$75 at secondary level as
compared to a GDP per capita of about US$150) are a major factor determining access
and retention in the education system, particularly for girls. This was confirmed through
discussions with a wide spectrum of interested parties (teachers, students, NGOs,
teachers' trade-unions, paramount chiefs and parents). Simulations with the Edfisimo
model show that, because of the currently high drop out rate, primary enrollment and the
number of graduates cannot be expanded drastically through increased admission alone.'
By the same token, secondary education is faced with a similarly high drop out rate and a
restricted intake due to the low number of graduates. In addition, chances are that the
high level of private costs disproportionately affects the poor's access to, and retention
in, the education system. Thus the issues of access, retention and eauitv and the
related policies need to be agreed upon and included in the policy framework of the
proposed project.
'The recent change in the Govemment's budget format and coding structure made a more detailed
analysis of historic expenditure trends impossible, given the time constraints.
5 However it is not certain that the amounts planned are really used. An exemple is the amount planned
for chalk and other materials which are in fact bought at the school level though pupils contributions.



S
(ii)    The low level of teachers' salaries (an average of about US$280 per
year) negatively affects the motivation and behavior of teachers, and results in a high
level of absenteeism and reduced hours of teaching (in some upper secondary schools,
the number of teaching hours is "officially" reduced at the school level), weak
preparation of lessons etc. In addition, under these conditions teachers might provide a
negative role model to their students as it appear clearly that education does not nourish
its man or woman. At the same time, this situation creates a favorable climate for those
who can afford both the best and most expensive schools as well as the client-biased
tutoring market. However, under the present economic conditions, not much can be done
with respect to teachers salaries, without threatening the long term sustainability of the
system.
14.    Enrollment rates decreased over the last 7 to 8 years--corresponding with the increase of
costs of education to parents over the same timeframe--and the related high drop out level lead to
a reduced pool of primary graduates. Under these circumstances, the government will have no
difficulty ensuring a 100% transition rate from primary to lower secondary level as planned
under the new 6-3-3-4 system. However, a reduction of the level of drop out would create a new
situation (para. 15).
15.    If the above conditions are not addressed, there is no need to increase the education
budget to expand the education system or expand teacher training. There is currently a pool of
about 2,000 underutilized teachers (1,300 of which are on study leave) and the number of
administrative staff at the DOE and regional levels could be reduced through staff redeployment.
However, even if improved quality will decrease repetition it still will not solve the problem of
access and retention and, consequently, of (i) increased primary education enrollment rates; and,
in the long term, (ii) improved literacy rates, particularly for women; this is demonstrated in an
Edifisimo simulation assuming present level of drop-outs (Annex .). Another simulation
assuming a 50% reduction of the current drop out rates showed a transformation of the education
system in Sierra Leone from a stagnant system, at best, to one which will allow healthy growth
both at primary and secondary school level (Annex IV). Only the latter scenario will require a
larger educational budget for primary and secondary education.
16.    The issue of private costs and related policies should be agreed upon and included in the
policy framework of the proposed project. The primary and secondary education system in
Sierra Leone is mostly privately owned. This said, the mission is fully aware of the sensitivity of
the issue of reducing the cost of education to the households because of the implication on both
the financing and operation of the Government-assisted schools (standards for financing of
teachers positions; accounting sytem for grant- in- aid) and on some of the school traditions
(uniforms). However, the system is mostly publicly financed (teachers salaries, grant- in-aid,
investments) while public resources targeting, allocation and efficient use are currently not fully
addressed. Thus, there is room for rationalization and better targeting and monitoring of the
government resources to promote increased efficiency and to reduce unnecessary private costs.
Because of the complexity of these issues, a study should be undertaken as soon as possible on
the costs and financing and administration of publicly- assisted schools.



6
The proposed education project
17.   The Bank mission worked closely with a govemment team coordinated by Mr. K. Salia-
Bao, consisting of DOE specialists of the pertinent DOE directorates and supported by Mr. C.
Brock and Mr. T. Horsler (consultants hired by the DOE, specializing in Primary teachers and
inspectors training, and textbooks procurement and distribution respectively), and Mr.
Constantini and Mr. Nkwanko (AfDB financed architect and education management specialists
respectively). However, given the status of the preparation of project documents, and the
pressing need for improvement, the mission was not able to achieve its objective of finalizing the
preparation and costing of the main project elements.
18.    Within a policy framework addressing above issues the objectives of the proposed
education project are two fold:
(a) to prop up the quality of primary education mainly in the Westem Area and
accessible zones, through improvement of (i) physical conditions of teaching; (ii) quality
and level of inputs; (iii) mobilization of teaching and supervisory staff over quality
improvement; and (iv) improvement of assessment, examination and related feed back;
and
(b) to strengthen the administrative and management capacity of the sector
through improvement of the related main functions: (i) policy analysis and planning; (ii)
budgeting and financial control; (iii) staff management; and (iv) school management.
19.    Accordingly, the proposed project comprises two main components:
(a) Primary education comprising the following sub-components: (i)
rehabilitation and construction of primary classrooms; (ii) development, distribution and
use of textbooks; (iii) in-service primary teacher training; (iv) pedagogical support; (v)
curriculum development; (vi) examination council; and (vii) girls education.
(b) Capacity building including the following sub-components: (i) inforrnation,
policy analysis and planning; (ii) budgeting and financial management; (iii) staff
management; (iv) school management; and (v) project implementation.
20.    Although guidelines where provided to the teams and each component was thoroughly
discussed in July, the revised documents, with the exception of the ones on administration and
management and the rehabilitation and construction of primary classrooms, were mainly focused4
on the means while the issues, objectives, strategies and process and performance indicators were
stated only vaguely. The investments are determined in very general terms (training, equipment,
rehabilitation, etc.) and not clearly related to the objectives of the components and processes. In
addition, and because of the weak coordination, the different groups did not take time to develop
overall strategies (For example: primary education strategy to improve quality beyond simply
increasing the different inputs) nor took they account of complementarity of components (For
example: Girls education - stereotypes issues - with textbooks development). However, a
participatory and transparent approach, although more difficult, will be continued in line with the
project's overall objective of capacity building and as a means to increase ownership, thus
creating better conditions for implementation.



7
21.    As during the last mission, but in a more detailed way and through direct contribution to
the work, the mission showed that in each case, the issues should be restricted to the most
important; the objectives should be as precise as possible to permit the evaluation; and the
action plan should detail the technical processes, actions and sequencing as well as the
implementation schedule in such a way that the rational and logic between issues, objectives and
processes are apparent. In addition, the logic between the different elements should also be
complemented by realism with regard to the scope of investments, the realities of implementation
capacity, even though the latter would be strengthened over the project period. The mission
reminded the teams that the prepared project documents are to become--at the end of the process-
-the project implementation manual to be referred to during project execution. The revised
proiect preparation documents are expected be completed by December 15. 1995 and sent to IDA
for review and comments.
Next steps.
22.    As discussed, following the closing in December 31, 1995 of the ongoing Third
Education Project, the existing PPF could be replenished to ensure the financing of a small
project preparation unit within the planning division to facilitate further preparation of the
project. Considering the status of project preparation and the importance of the policy issues
raised above in addition to the planned elections in February 1996, it is becoming clear that the
proposed project processing schedule will be shifted from this fiscal year (ending June 1996) to
the first half of the next. The next project development mission is expected to take place some
time in March 1996. However, a short mission to review the policy issues and discuss the related
measures might be organized earlier.






APPENDIX B
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLIIDA-3 EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 1353-SL)
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Freetown, April, 1996






APPENDIX B
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
Proiect Description
From 1969, when Sierra Leone became eligible for World Bank, (IDA) borrowing to date, this
country has benefited from three World Bank loans for the, Education Sector. IDA commitments
had been provision of loans for education project,. CR170-SL in 1970; CR573-SL in 1975; and
CR1353-SL in 1983. The outline of the Third Education Project is given hereunder.
Description of the Third Education Proiect
(a)   Project Objectives:
the IDA third Education Project had the following priority policy objectives for the
sector:
(i)   improvement in the quality of Primary education through support to Primary
teacher, training and the provision of textbooks;
(ii)  increase in access to Primary education in rural areas through the construction
of Primary schools.
The project would also support the Government's effort to strengthen the country's capacity for
educational planning, administration, management, evaluation, and effective project implementation.
(b)   Project Components
The project had the following parts:
PART I: DEVELOPMENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
(i) Primary Education - construction, and operation of about 500 classrooms, with about
22,500 student places, in rural areas and provision of furniture and equipment for these
classroom, and specialist services to develop standards and simple designs for schools
buildings and furniture for Primary school teacher at schools in remote locations;
(ii) Primary Teacher Training - construction and operation of a Primary Teacher Training
College in Freetown, construction of three staff houses, and provision of furniture and
equipment, and specialist services for studying the efficiency of teacher training;
(iii) Textbook Procurement and Distribution - construction and provision of furniture,
equipment, consumable materials, specialist services and fellowships to procure, store and
distribute Primary school textbooks, improve the existing central book storage facility in
Freetown and nine district book warehouses, and operate the textbook task force.



APPENDIX B
PART II: STRENGTHENING THE ADMINISTRATIVE PLANNING AND EVALUATION
CAPACITIES
Providing equipment, specialist services and fellowships, and operating programs for:
(i) improving the administrative and educational skills of all key staff at the central, regional
and local levels concerned with Primary education, and providing training to support the
implementation of the textbook- component;
(ii) strengthening the Planning Unit of the Department of Education, specifically its capacity
to collect educational data and carry out school location planning;
(iii) promoting studies to be conducted by the Planning Unit staff, emphasizing topics related
to education planning and financing;
(iv) strengthening evaluation research, specifically on matters related to the textbook
component.
PART .I: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Strengthening and operation of the Project Unit through the provision of staff and equipment
The project became effective on the 20th May 1983 and was expected to be completed by December
31, 1988. The amended closing date of the contract was December 31st 1995.
MAJOR FINDINGS AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
The project design remained as originally agreed upon between the "borrower" and the "lender".
however, necessary amendments were made during the project implementation due to several factors
which affected the implementation of the project.
Rural Primary Classrooms Construction
The construction of the Rural Primary Schools was programmed for execution in two phases. Phase
I consists of the construction of 250 Classrooms, 35 Staffhouses and Ancillary Structures in the Port
Loko, Kambia, Koinadugu, Kono and Moyamba comprising 3 sites grouped into 19 Construction
Contract Packages each comprising a minimum of 3 sites. These Contracts were awarded to small
scale Indigenous Contractors by the Central Tender Board. Phase II Contract were awarded to large
scale Contractors. Annex I shows Phases Land II Contractors.
The status of overall works for the construction of rural primary classrooms at the end of December
1995 is shown in Annex II while Annex III shows the financial status of civil works on December 30,
1995.



APPENDIX B
Construction/Rehabilitation of Book Stores
The rehabilitation of the Central Bookstore at. Tower Hill was completed in January 1994 by Sierra
Construction Systems as a variation order to the Freetown teachers College Contracts. Minor repairs
were also completed in Makeni, Port Loko, Kambia, Kenema and a new bookstore built in Bo. The
other Iwo bookstores to be constructed at Segbwema and Mattru Jong were deferred because of the
security situation in these areas.
Freetown Teachers Collefe
The Contract for the construction of Freetown Teacher College was awarded to Messrs. Sierra
Construction Systems by the Central Tender Board. As at 20 December 1995, civil works have been
completed on the buildings including external works.
Analysis of Performance - Civil Works
Since the construction of the Rural Primary Schools Construction Program, it has been beset by a
number of problems mainly economic but also including the poor performance of small scale
Contractors. Inspite of the fact that building materials were provided to these contractors to help
them with their financial difficulties to raise funds, many of their contractors did not performed
satisfactorily. These and other problems were fully discussed with all interested parties.
Unfortunately however, soon after all efforts to grapple with the Rural Primary schools Construction
Program, the World Bank (IDA) imposed a ban on disbursement to Sierra Leone on May 4, 1987. It
was expected that the ban would last for only a few months but was only lifted in 1992. Regarding
the construction of classroom sites negatively affected by the security situation, these were,
transferred to safer areas, as suggested by World Bank Missions (February and July 1995 Aide
Memoires). The change in the management of the PIU and its Transfer to the Department of
Education in July 1995 greatly accelerated the implementation of the civil component as shown in
Annex I
Supply of Furniture. EauiRment and Materials
Furniture for primary classrooms originally contracted have, been manufactured. Distribution is
underway, satisfactorily. However, furniture for classrooms relocated from rebel war affected areas
to safer areas had their contracts amended for manufacture and delivery before December 31, 1995.
Delivery of furniture to security risk areas of Moyamba and Kenema Districts is awaiting the safety
of the roads. Annex V shows list of Contractors for the Supply of Furniture. Equipment and
Materials to Primary Schools and FTC. All contracts were awarded by the Central Tender Board.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
The Sierra Leone/IDA Education Project incepted in 1983 is a jointly financed Project by the World
Bank/IDA and Sierra Leone Government and is basically an Educational, Civil Works/Construction



APPENDix B
Project; with an objective to strengthening and improving the overall educational system in Sierra
Leone.
The Project is mainly financed by the World Bank/IDA finds through an agreed Credit Allocation,
Credit 13 53-SL of 18.5 Million SDR (Special Drawing Right) representing 95% of eligible Project
Cost and a Counterpart Funding, of 5% of Project Costs by the Government of Sierra Leone.
The Project has six different expenditure components which is accounted for in the administration of
its overall funding system which is known as the Project Expenditure Categories for Project
Operations; namely:
Category 1   -    Civil Works Constructions Costs;
Category 2   -    Furniture, Equipment & Vehicles Cost & Materials;
Category 3   -    Professional-& Specialist Services;
Category 4   -    Training
Category 5   -    Operation Cost; and
Category 6   -    Textbooks.
The two different sources of project funding necessitate the operation of two different Banking
Systems for the Project Funds. The World Bank/IDA Credit is a Foreign Component for eligible
expenditures and part of the fund is operated through a Foreign Account system known as the
Special Project Fund Account (i.e. US Dollar Account) and Direct Overseas Payment (DOP) . This
account was operated and maintained at the Sierra Leone Commercial Bank with an initial advance
deposit of USS450,000 which has been recovered in different proportions, six months prior to the
Closing Date of the Project, acquiring a zero Bank balance by date December 31, 1995. The special
Account is operated as a replenishment account system for due eligible Project expenditures of IDA
funds a local level.
The financial Status of the Project for eligible expenditures through the World Bank/IDA Credit as at
December 1995 is presented in Annex III.
EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMES
A.   Primary Education
The educational objectives of the 3rd Education project consist of improving the quality of
primary education and to increase access to primary education in rural areas.
The physical resources provided under this project (buildings, equipment and furniture) were
provided largely as planned and have established the appropriate environment to promote
access to and improve the quality of primary educational The construction, furnishing and
equipping the Freetown Teachers College for the training of primary school teachers in rural
areas constitute other necessary measures for the provision of quality primary education.
Provision and distribution of textbooks under the project largely contributed to improved
quality of primary education., The Department of Education should provide the necessary



APPENDIX B
educational environment and teachers need for effective, and efficient use of the new
facilities.
B.   Administration. Plannine and Evaluation
The objectives of this project component were geared toward provision of support to
Government's efforts to develop policies, plans for the educational system and capacity
building translated into concrete programs for the educational system and capacity building
translated into concrete programs for the improvement of primary education in the country.
The Project financed consultancies, fellowships, seminars, workshops, procurement of
equipment and rehabilitation of physical structures for the Department of Education during
the period of the project.
Institute of Public Administration and Manaaement (IPAM)
Administration and Educational Staff Training Program was subcontracted to IPAM. Of the
30 five-day workshops planned over a four-year period for headteachers, teacher supervisors,
inspectors and supervisors, about 90% were conducted successfully, irrespective of the rebel
war in the country. A Handbook of Inspectorate Practice was upgraded and produced.
Educational Outcome
In the absence of formal training for headteachers and inspectors in school management, this
program (based on impact course evaluations of participants), the project contributed
positively in the following:
-     rate of performance of managerial skills; and
-     effective classroom teaching methods and skills
It is recommended that this training program be continued to improve management of schools under
the new education policy.
Textbooks ComDonent
Procurement and distribution of primary textbooks was subcontracted to the British Council. The
procurement was completed on schedule and over 96% of primary textbooks have been distributed
to all district inspectorates, inspite of the rebel war. Supplementary Reading Scheme was part of the
British Council contract This imaginative pilot scheme was designed to give children in 100 pilot
schools the opportunity to develop language skills and reading habit. Books, fiction and non-fiction,
were chosen for their relevance to the children's lives. The pilot scheme completed as scheduled.
An important part of the scheme was the writing and publishing of new books for the children. The
preparation of manuscripts is far advanced for the following subjects: English, Mathematics, Science,
Environmental/Practical Arts, plus Supplementary readers. The authors teams have completed most
of the Manuscripts.



APPENDIX B
C.   Proiect Manaeement
The main objective of this project component was for strengthening the operation of the
Project Implementation Unit through the proposition of staff and equipment. The Project
Implementation. arrangements for the Third Education Project were similar to those for the
Second IDA-credit.
The PIU established in 1983 under the Department of Finance and was staffed by well
qualified Sierra Leonean, most of whom were involved with the implementation of the
Second Education Project. It performed with efficiency and responsibility while coping with
country-wide economic problems, until July 1995 when Management was changed because
effective direct supervisions from Department of Finance was lacking. The existing senior
and ancillary staff was greatly reduced to superintend the phasing out of the project.
The PIU was responsible for monitoring implementation progress and coordinating
communications with IDA. It also handled all physical implementation (including
procurement and contract administration) and financial and accounting matters. Between
August 31 and December 31, 1995, significant progress was made in the performance of the
functions of the PIU. The Aide Memoire (November 1995) before the closing date
(December 31, 1995) mentioned satisfaction on the significant progress the PIU Management
made on civil works, procurement of furniture, equipment and materials, as well as the other
components of the project. Despite the World Bank's disbursement recovery procedure for
previous advances to the project and the inadequacy of Government's counterpart funds, the
method of direct payments to contractors and suppliers was vigorously pursued by the PIU.
IDA 3/GOSL PERFORMANCE
Overall, project's implementation benefited considerably form IDA Preparatory Missions but less
from Supervision Missions. However, between June and December 1995, the project benefited from
three (3) MA Supervision Missions. Throughout the implementation of the project, Government
remained committed to the project's principal objectives and made serious efforts, despite country-
wide external economic constraints and the rebel war, to implement the project as agreed. But, the
country's rapidly deteriorating economy which resulted in severe constraints on the Government
necessitated changes to be made on the project IDA responded with considerable flexibility to the
Government proposals to make greater use of local consultants by agreeing-to use funds originally
allocated for expatriate specialist services to financing operating costs (travel, subsistence and
supplies) and relocation of primary classrooms construction sites to safer areas from non-secured
areas.
The cooperation between IDA and the Government in respect of hosting two Donor Conferences on
Social Sectors, the production of a National Education Action Plan, New National Education Policy
and the preparation of a Master Plan of Action for Education with funds available from IDA and the
Government of Sierra Leone were very positive steps. This had great impact on local expertise
capacity building and sustainability was achieved in a project based on education sector work and
pre-investment studies carried out largely by local and regional specialists.



APPENDLx B
OBSERVATIONS. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
General Assessment
IDA-3 Education Project (Credit 1353-SL) was formally closed at the end of December 31, 1995,
about 7 years behind the closing date foreseen at appraisal. Not all project components/ institutions
were completed before the closing date. The project's hardware objectives for furniture and
equipment and some for civil works were met. The institutional and educational building objective
were partly achieved. The partial completion of the project was due to several factors, including
external countrywide economic constraints and rebel war. On the average, the following results
were achieved: Civil Works - C 75%; Teacher Education - C 100%; Textbooks - C 95%
Management Training - C 90%.
Lesson Learned
Design of the Project
The project was designed with multiple objectives and fairly large number of components. This was
understandable at the time, considering the rate of development of the education sector of the
country. However, our experience in implementing this project confirms the difficulties inherent in
this approach, and the delay in project completion was probably the unsuitable result. The lesson
learned from this project design approach is that future projects be designed to have at most two
main objectives and also limited to one level of the education sector with supporting services.
Institutional Development/Capacity Building constituted one of the expected end result of the
project. However, experience with this project illustrates the difficulty in strengthening national
institutions during a period of serious economic decline and national insecurity. The Government's
difficulties in recruiting professional (senior) staff for research and planning are telling in this respect.
The use of local consultant and local institutions for carrying out the bulk of the preparatory studies
and training programs supported by the project was highly commendable. This illustrates that if
determined efforts are made to find local consultants/ institutions to provide the necessary
operational support and local costs financing, positive projects results can be achieved. This
underscores the point that future development projects designed for the education sector should
effectively utilize local consultants/institutions support their planning and implementation process.
Small Scale Contractors - Experience with this project illustrates the difficulties in using small scale
contractor for large scale civil works (construction) purposes (e.g. their lack of finance, skilled
labour and management facilities to perform large scale construction contracts).
Although the degree to encourage local small scale entrepreneur in the development of building
industry was well conceived but the inherent difficulties were many and contributed largely to the
delays in the completion of the project. Future projects with civil works component be designed to
use small scale contractors for small construction works only.
Staffing of the PIU Experience with the project shows that the use of large staff to manage the
implementation of a project is not cost effective. This indicates that the implementation of future
project must consider contracting of progran/project activities to local consultants/institutions/firms



APPENDIX B
or Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to cut down on project operational and implementation
costs. In future, Project Implementation Unit should be located in the Ministry that would largely
benefit form results of the project. Experience from this project clearly illustrates that better
supervision and monitoring of project implementation activities could have been carried out by the
beneficiary department (e.g. Ministry of Education) instead of Department of Finance under which
the Education Project's PIU was located.
CONCLUSIONS
There are indications that both quality and access to education improved slightly as the
implementation of the project. However, an impact study to determine the extent of improvement in
both qualitative and quantitative term needs to be carried out.
It is therefore strongly recommended that a new IDA-4 Project replaces IDA-3 with the same
education for most objectives of improvement of quality education and provision of access to
education for most Sierra Leonean children. Such a project should start in the accessible areas of
Sierra Leone and slowly expands as the security situation improves.



APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. NO 1353-SL)
COMMENT FROM THE BORROWER (DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION)
GENERAL
On the whole draft report is considered good and acceptable in general terms. Attempt
has been made (though 5 months after the 'completion' of the project) to present an
objective and balanced posture on the pros and cons of the project implementation
assessment including
1.1.  Project Implementation
(a)   that not until the very end of the project in 1995 was satisfactory
performance realized in the largest component of the project (2/3) dealing with
classroom construction and furniture; and
(b)   that the location of the PIU outside the Ministry was inappropriate and,
indeed harmful to the project implementation.
1.2   Project Outcome
(c)   that the outcome of the project was unsatisfactory since all indicators
show that the situation sin the 3 major components addressed by the project
worsened over the period, and necessitating their reoccurrence in the new
proposals for the bank credit; and
(d)   that the blames for the unsatisfactory performance of the project are
shared by: the (rather explicable)deterioration in government's economic and
budgetary conditions; the PIU modality; and poor IDA supervision process.
1.3   Lessons Learned
(e)   the need to include for implementation, monitoring and evaluation,
project design indicators that measure impact rather than mere record of inputs
(f)   the need to integrate project implementation within the mainstream
beneficiary Unit/Agency to ensure project ownership, policy flexibility and also
for sustainability; and



APPENDIX B
2.    SPECIFIC COMMENTS
2.1   Teacher's Training College (FTTC)
Water Supply: The use of a generator to pump water for a campus has the
inherent problem of absence of funds in the recurrent expenditure of the college
to carry out task. The quantum of funds made available to the college will be too
small to undertake this task. The contractor should find ways and means of
connecting the college to the main water supply scheme in that part of
Freetown,. As it was the case of Bunumby and Njala University College no
special consideration will be made to the College in terms of funds for this facility
to be provided to students and staff, and the lack of this facility is a common
source of strike action by students.
Electricity Supply: This is another source of staff and students agitation in
Tertiary Institutions. It is advisable that the NPA makes efforts to connect FTC
to the local electricity net using the current equivalence of USD 31, 779.00
which was paid to it in 1985. It is highly likely that the connection desired can be
done out of the equivalence of the funds paid in 1985.
The fencing of the campus of FTC appears desirable and IDA should be
encouraged to fund this activity to avoid encroachment on the College land by
members of the public.
2.2   COUNTERPART FUNDS:
The question of delayed payment of counterpart contributions to the
implementation of projects is and age-old problem. Project agreements should be
entered into after proper assessment of our ability to support the implementation
and sustain of the project after the donors have pulled out.
2.3   Project Objectives
The long-term development objectives of the project were quite rational and
logical (in relation to the development constraints). However the position of the
ICR that the design of the project was most appropriate seems contestable. The
conceptual framework for weighting the project components was over skewed in
favor of civil construction and furniture for development of Primary Education.
Vital factors for improving efficiency, access and quality in primary education
(e.g. Reduction of private cost to pupils, teacher quality and motivation,
teaching/learning materials and pedagogical support) were grossly re-
emphasized. The allocation to the three major components showed:



APPENDix B
Component I Development of Primary Education (US$17,6 million of total base
cost of US$20.6 million) of this cost over 90% was spent on civil works
(construction furniture and equipment).
Component II Strengthening Administrative, Planning and Evaluation capacities
(US$1.3 million)
Component IIIProject Management (US$1.6 million)
The Importance of human resource capacity over and above the passive factors
of development (e.g. Facilities, equipment, infrastructure) cannot be over-
emphasized in projects with long-term development objectives.
The above comment is clearly accepted by the report which states that;
"The one potential criticism of the project concept was the (inevitable)
preponderance of physical investments as compared to the limited
emphasis on qualitative aspects such as training and institutional
strengthening".
2.3   Achievement of Objectives
Acceptable No comments
2.4   Major Factors Affecting the Project
2.4.1 Macro-Economic and Sector Policies
Acceptable. However, the blame which the report puts on the impact of
government macro-economic and sectoral policies appears over stretched. If the
original project design and schedule were realistically verified and adhered to
between 1983 and 1991 most of the adverse macro-economic, budgetary, and
environmental factors (mostly the results of the civil strife) could, perhaps, have
been averted or would have been marginal.
2.4.2  Implementation Arrangements
Acceptable.
2.5   Project Sustainability
Acceptable
2.6   Bank Performance
Acceptable



APPENDIX B
However, it could still be argued that if timely and greater attention was given to
the capacity constraints on ground, many of the problems could have been
averted. The ICR accepts that "it is clear that the design for the 3rd Education
Project relied too much on the "PIU", and that "too little attention had been
given to the details of strengthening the institutional capacity of the MOE". This
acceptance of faults is re-echoed
2.7   Borrowers Performance
Acceptable
2.8   Assessment of Outcomes
This commentary, though sad and painful, is acceptable.
3.    Future Operations and sustainabiity
3.1   The components listed for "An Education Institutional Development
Project are acceptable.
3.2   The envisaged creditof about US$10 million (on grounds of "volatile security
situation") should be revisited in view of the sustainability of the premise. In addition,
the scope of the new project (IDA IV) should encompass priorities related to 3.1 above
but particularly within the framework of the National Education Master Plan (Phases I &
II the short and medium-term targets.)
4.    LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
Acceptable. Already the MOE has drawn up plans to accommodate the lessons in terms
of the new MOE strategy for;
(a)   Improved Project Coordination using most effective capacities.
(b)   Participative project irnplementation by and within beneficiary, Divisions,
Units and Institutions
(c)   Streamlined project monitoring, evaluation and reporting systems.
The Bank Group is expected to corroborate the MOE improved aid coordination
strategy by redressing the issues raised.



APPENDIXC
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CR. NO 1353-SL)
COFINANCIER CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
The Overseas Development Association(ODA), provided no comment on the draft ICR.






I 3RD 16404R
3'                                         ~~~~~                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'  .  u    ]3
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                       60/6 Prony clo-soo-s/so-rc-f
TeltcooK 51 1es
FCee - le,ohe,s fr.jeqe
r ICTIEEO 0    IC   20   30   O  50   63   '0  8i0
MIIES 0       I       270      30       0       5C                                                                                                    F; ed
N 
G        U    I    N     E    A          a        '1,                                                    <         ..        \            +    A,.,,,R0
KAM.                         '-.non,,             , ----.-- -.srctbDndre
p 'e"F
KABALA ~ ~     ~      ~      ~         AIAIU          ISRC
!   '.   /   j                  , _   _ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -   -  - -, -  -  - -r - - -1 - - -x -
~~~ E rO i g ~~~~~~~-~~Kr mokw e ' \ ' J1 ' < ~~~~~~~~~~~~G    U    I   N    E   A
'8      /  t            t                   t   . /    ;                 ~~~KOINADUGU  
_ ,,- /)5sS50   2   ~N\ R T H E                   <v;                                0           sun 
NIGER<93                                                                                               ~~''-P R 00
PER O V/ I                     OEA N                     '                                  b D I S T R I C T )
GRNE    jj          BAMie I >'  VLT   ;(I -2' 
Momt>                <    $<POR LK''DITCT)                                 0_                          /.ONO  DISTRICT 
K .1 n   c   t   =  a   :     81.1   NDISTR ICTIA
SWIEnRRA .SONS   <  ''  CA S-T E  R   N                                                                         'C.t -o
LIBRRIAo- n                                                                                          !''C<,6
K-kREdA                                 7     9                                                                                           )
K*.  Eiouec>;- < AxOSenehon | 5AG   URA Ada) ! /</
80NTtHE ~~~1~ FiTRC                                                         A     Ty  E P.AXL /
Igo/8             + UU <nJ HlrSb E R_ N                                        /                  r
0,11                 ;P  R                               .t9 I NC  E                              LAMA\   RICTF             .    OrS H   
X _ _ _ _ S ~~~~~M- A                                                                                                                    L I BErIA fzANA  J|Fr  lsd~tafJ'
|s  AAURITANiA     I                                                                        Hq        I TRIS5v ;;frn  LdPsad
SERLENEG. ,            oS  GAr,  NIGERI                                                                                                        . J7e . r o    ;;
COAsr ,  ),' 









IMAGING
Report No:      15767
Type: ICR



