Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3932-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
April 5, 1983
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Leone
US$1             =   Le 1.25
MEASURFS
1 mile                     =   1.61 kilometers
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile
1 square mile              =   2.56 square kilometers (km2)
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.39 square miles
1 foot                     =   0.30 meters (m)
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet
,1 square meter (m2)        =  10.76 square feet
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY
ADB  -     African Development Bank
EEC  -     European Economic Community
FTC  -     Freetown Teachers College
GCE  -     General Certificate of Education
IPAM -     Institute of Public Administration and Management
ODA  -     British Overseas Development Administration
UNDP. -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    THE  EDUCATION AND  TRAINING  SECTOR  ...........................                                 1
A.   Social  and  Economic  Background  ..........................                               1
Population  ............................................                                1
The Economy  ...........................................                                1
Development  Prospects  .................................                               2
Human Resources  .......................................                                3
B.  The Educational  System  ..................................                                 3
C.   Main  Issues  in Education  ................................                               4
Access  to Education  ...................................                               4
Quality of Education                ......................,                             5
Institutional  Weaknesses  ..............................                               6
Education  Cost  and  Finance  ............................                             7
The Government's  Strategy  .............................                               8
D.   The  Bank  Group's  Role  ...................................                              9
Previous  Involvement  in  the  Sector  ....................                            9
Lending Priorities  ....................................                              10
II.   THE PROJECT  .................................................                                  10
A.   Project  Objectives  ......................................                               10
B.   Project  Components  ......................................                               11
Development  of  Primary  Education  ......................                           11
Strengthening the Administrative, Planning and
Evaluation  Capacities  ................................                             11
Project  Management  ....................................                             12
C.   Project  Description  .....................................                               12
Primary  Schools  .......................................                             12
Primary  Teacher  Training  ..............................                            13
Textbook  Procurement  and Distribution  .................                            15
Training  of  Administrative  and  Educational  Staff  ......                         17
Educational  Planning  ..................................                             18
Evaluation  ............................................                              19
Project  Management  ....................................                             20
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
III.   PROJECT  COST AND FINANCING PLAN  ............................                         21
Cost of the Project  .......................................                        21
Financing Plan  ............................................                         23
Recurrent Cost  Implications  ...............................                        25
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .....................................                          26
Project Preparation  ....... ............                ...................       26
Project Management  ....... .............               ...................        27
Special Account                               ..                                   28
Specialist  Services  and Fellowships  ......... ..                ...........     28
Sites       ....................................................                   29
Procurement          ....................... .......................               29
Contract Review  .....................                .....................        30
Disbursements          ......................       ......................         30
Accounts  and Audits  ....... ............               ...................       31
Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ..........             ..      ............     31
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .31
Educational Benefits .. .                          .31
Risks  ..32
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOIMENDATIONS  .....................                          32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Sierra Leone from January 18 to February 6, 1982. The mission members
were Messrs. 0. Markgren (general educator), A. Verspoor (economist),
P. Bussat (architect), M. Carroll (consultant - textbook procurement
specialist), and Mrs. B. Searle (education evaluator).



- iii-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Labor Force and Employment Estimates, 1974
3.   Structure of the Educational System
4.   Population of Sierra Leone by Town Size, Showing Male/Female
Ratio Census Figures
5.   Comparison of Recurrent Costs per Student in Selected West African
Countries
6.   Recurrent Cost Estimates, 1976-82
7.   Actual and Projected Enrollments and Teachers in Primary
Education 1980-81 - 1990-91
8.   Enrollments in Primary Teacher Training, 1981-82
9.   Distribution of Textbooks and Teachers' Guides among Subjects
and Grades
10.   Summary Account by Project Component
11.   Financing Plan
12.   Summary of Specialist Services (Expatriate)
13.   Summary of Specialist Services (Local)
14.   Summary of Fellowships
15.   Schedule of Disbursements
16.   Implementation Schedule - Civil Works/Teaching Equipment
17.   Implementation Schedule - Book Provision
18.   Implementation Schedule - Book Distribution
Map         IBRD No. 16404



- iv -
SIERRA LEONE
BASIC DATA
Area                                   71,840 km2
Population:  total (1981)              3.5 million
rural (1980)             2.6 million
Population growth rate (1980)          2.6%
Literacy rate                          15%
Life expectancy at birth               47 years
GNP per capita (1982)                  US$280.00
Percent of
Enrollments (1977/78)   No. of Students  Age Group   Age Group   Percent Girls
Primary                     227,815 1/        5-11         37.0           40.0
Primary Teacher Training      1,764 2/                                    35.0
Secondary General            39,397 1/       12-14         18.0           34.0
Secondary General            13,763 1/       15-16         10.0           28.0
Higher                        2,008 2/       19-22          0.8           n.a.
Central Government Expenditures on Education
as percent of GNP (1980-81)                 4%
as percent of total Government
recurrent budget (1980-81)               18%
Public Expenditures per Student 1980 (est.)
Primary                            US$68
Secondary General                 US$216
Higher                             US$4,000-6,000
1/   1981-82 statistics in preparation under the IDA Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 970-SL).
2/   1981-82.



I.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Background
Population
1.01      Sierra Leone has a population of 3.5 million (1981), growing at
an annual rate of about 2.6%. The high birth rate, combined with a short
life span, has produced a young population: 40% are under age 15 and 55%
are under age 25. The main urban center is Freetown, where about 10% of the
population live; the rest of the population is widely dispersed over the
country, with about 55% living in villages of less than 500 inhabitants and
15% in villages with between 500 and 2,000 inhabitants.
1.02      The population is composed of about 18 ethnic groups, of which
three (Mende, Temne and Limba) account for nearly 70% of the population.
English is the official language and the medium of instruction in schools,
but its use is generally limited to administrative, business and technical
communication.
1.03      Sierra Leone does not have a well-developed social and economic
infrastructure, especially in the rural areas. Only about 12% of the popula-
tion have access to a safe water supply and this is mostly in urban areas.
Health facilities are scarce and infant mortality rates (200/1,000) high.
Only about 40% of the school-aged children attend primary school, and 85% of
the population are illiterate.
The Economy
1.04      Per capita GNP is estimated at US$280 (1982).  But there are
significant income disparities between the urban areas, where per capita
income averages US$700, and the rural areas where per capita income is
estimated at only US$150. However, even within the urban areas about 25%
of the population have an income level below the urban relative poverty
threshold, estimated at US$198.
1.05      The agricultural and mining sectors have been the main sources
of income and growth in Sierra Leone. The agricultural sector, still largely
outside the monetary economy, provides a livelihood for nearly 65% of the
population even though it produces only 30% of GNP. Rice, the staple food,
is grown by over 80% of the farmers, primarily for subsistence. Coffee, cocoa
and palm products are the major export crops and the principal sources of cash
income for the rural population. With less than 10% of the arable land under
cultivation, there is considerable potential for agricultural development in
Sierra Leone.
1.06      Although diamonds still accounted for 37% of Sierra Leone's export
earnings in 1981-82, the production of diamonds has been steadily declining.
The volume of diamond production in 1979-80 was less than one-fourth of its
1970 level. Moreover, the country lost its second largest source of foreign



-2-
exchange earnings with the closing in 1975 of the only iron ore mine, due to
rising production costs and the declining grade of the iron ore. Over the
same period, mineral production as a whole declined by about 60%. On the
positive side, agricultural exports increased in volume as well as in value
during the same period. Total merchandise exports increased from Le 82
million in 1970-71 to Le 234 million in 1979-80, an average annual growth rate
of 10.7%. Imports, however, increased even faster and the balance of payments
deteriorated steadily during the 1970s. The current account balance, which
showed a deficit of Le 18 million in 1970-71, registered a deficit of Le 184
million in 1980-81. The changes in the production base adversely affected
the country's economic performance, and during the 1972-80 period the growth
of GNP became erratic and barely exceeded 1% per year on average. With the
population growing at about 2.6% per year, this has resulted in a decrease in
already low per capita real incomes.
1.07      Poor economic performance, combined with the growing balance
of payments and Government budget deficits, led Sierra Leone to seek IMF
assistance in 1979 and in 1980. Because of unfavorable external conditions
combined with the Government's inability to control its spending, the balance
of payments as well as the Government budget registered record deficits for
FY80-81. This led to the suspension of the Extended Fund Facility Agreement
by the IMF in June 1981.  The Government's overall deficit for FY82 is esti-
mated at Le 151 million, or 10% of GDP (at market prices).
Development Prospects
1.08      Sierra Leone's long-term development strategy needs to aim at taking
advantage of its considerable agricultural potential and reducing income
inequalities. In the past 10 years the investment ratio to CDP was barely
high enough to satisfy the needs for capital replacement (especially in the
mining sector) and provide a minimum of social infrastructure. To continue in
the future to provide a minimum of infrastructure and ensure a dynamic growth
of the productive sectors, Sierra Leone will have to gradually increase its
ratio of investment to GDP.
1.09      The preparation of a second five-year National Development Plan
(1982-86) was delayed because of the national elections which took place in
May 1982. Given the magnitude of the economic and financial crisis Sierra
Leone is facing today, the first order of priority for the new Government is
short-term stabilization, which the new Government has initiated. The
new Government has been responsive to Bank and Fund advice or. macroeconomic
policies, and has initiated a far-reaching macroeconomic reform program,
including the introduction of a dual exchange rate, reduction of public
spending, and steps to increase public revenue. The Fund recently approved a
concessionary loan to the Government under the compensatory financing facility,
and is also negotiating a standby loan. While addressing the pressing short-
term issues, the new Government should not ignore the long-term structural
adjustments the economy will have to make if Sierra Leone is to benefit from
its growth potential. A serious planning effort will be needed to define a
long-term development strategy and the measures needed to implement it.



-3-
Human Resources
1.10      The total labor force in 1974 was estimated at 1.3 million persons,
representing about 50% of the total population (Annex 2). Wage employment,
including some small-scale activities, is estimated at about 120,000 persons,
of whom about 50% are unskilled or semi-skilled workers. Annex 2 gives
details on employment by sector, indicating the insignificance of large-scale
wage employment outside the commercial and service sectors. The public sector
provides the bulk of wage employment: 46% of the wage earners work directly
for the Government and 12% for public enterprises. The slowdown in economic
activities in recent years has led to stagnation of employment growth in
large-scale enterprises. Most of those who entered the labor force and found
non-agricultural private sector employment have been absorbed by small-scale
industries or informal sector enterprises.
1.11      Under favorable economic conditions an increase in modern sector
employment could be expected, creating an estimated 4,000 job openings annually
(including replacement demand) for middle- and high-level workers. But
under present circumstances the prospects of this occurring are not good.
Consequently, the majority of the new entrants into the labor force during
the 1980s will have to be absorbed in agriculture, small-scale industries
and the informal sector--i.e., in sectors where formal wage rates do not
prevail and earnings are downwardly flexible. Over the long run, employment
opportunities in the larger industrial and commercial enterprises should
increase, but the extent of the increase will depend on the success of the
Government's efforts to increase agricultural production. Since the modern
sector is very small in Sierra Leone, human resource policies should aim at
improving the productivity of the dominant traditional sector through literacy
training and basic skill development which would facilitate the introduction
of improved technologies in agriculture and small-scale industry.
B.   The Educational System
1.12      Sierra Leone's educational system (Annex 3) was originally pat-
terned after the British system and maintains close links with it in terms
of standards, examinations and professional qualifications. The primary
course of seven years is followed by a five-year secondary course leading
to GCE Ordinary-levels, and some schools also offer a two-year Sixth Form
program to prepare pupils for the GCE Advanced-levels. Tertiary level
education is provided by five teachers colleges, two technical institutes
and the branches of the University of Sierra Leone at Fourah Bay and Njala.
A number of specialized institutes within the formal system provide technical,
vocational and agricultural training. English is the official language of
instruction at all educational levels. The vernacular is not an integral
part of the curriculum, although it is used unofficially in the first few
years of the primary cycle to facilitate understanding and the transition to
English.
1.13      The Ministry of Education has overall responsibility for formal
education in Sierra Leone. Until recently, authority was almost completely
centralized, with very little diffusion to the regional level, but now



- 4 -
District Education Committees have been set up to operate schools within
their jurisdictions. The management of education is complex and diverse, with
several employing authorities (e.g., the Freetown City Council and the WIestern
Area Regional Education Committee, as well as a variety of religious bodies)
also operating schools. Most of the schools operated by employing authori-
ties are financially assisted by the Ministry of Education (they are called
"assisted schools"), but an estimated 10% of the students in Sierra Leone are
enrolled in private schools, which receive no government assistance. The
University of Sierra Leone and its institutes have autonomous status, but
the University's budget is largely dependent on government grants included in
the budget of the Ministry of Education.
1.14      Educational planning and evaluation are the responsibility of the
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, Educational research, curriculum
development and teacher upgrading are the responsibility of the Institute of
Education, which is attached to the University of Sierra Leone.
C.   Main Issues in Education
1.15      Until the mid-seventies, the expansion of the educational system
was geared toward producing skilled manpower to meet the most urgent shortages
in the modern sector of the economy. High priority was given to investments
in secondary general and technical education and university education. The
development of secondary education has been particularly dramatic, with enroll-
ments increasing at an average annual rate of more than 13% between 1963 and
1977. The development of primary education has been slower and enrollments
have increased by only 5% annually. For the present, the existing institu-
tions can satisfy the modern sector's limited demand for skilled manpower;
consequently, the main issue facing the education sector--in the context of a
development policy aiming at both growth and poverty alleviation--is how to
increase access to education while at the same time improving the quality
without unduly burdening the Government's recurrent budget.
Access to Education
1.16      Educational opportunities for children in rural areas are still
limited.  Between 1968 and 1978, primary enrollments increased from about
140,000 to 230,000, but the gross enrollment ratio in 1978 was nevertheless
only 37%. Girls represent 40% of total enrollments; however, actual attendance
figures are thought to be considerably lower, possibly by as much as 20%, so
that only about 32% may actually be enrolled.
1.17      There is a considerable disparity in enrollments between urban and
rural areas. About 50% of the primary school enrollments are concentrated in
towns with more than 2,000 inhabitants, where about 30% of the total popula-
tion live. These include Freetown, the provincial and district capitals, and
the larger mining and marketing towns. The gross enrollment ratio for these
towns is estimated at 70%, whereas for settlements with fewer than 2,000
inhabitants the ratio is estimated at 25%.



- 5 -
1.18      Settlement patterns in Sierra Leone are an obstacle to the imple-
mentation of the Government's plan to increase access to education in rural
areas. About one-third of the population live in villages of less than
200 people where the number of school-aged children (averaging about 40) is
barely sufficient to support even a one-teacher, one-room school. Further-
more, an estimated 30% of the population live in villages of between 200 and
1,000 people (with between 40 and 200 school-aged children) which could
support a school with one to four teachers.
1.19      To increase primary enrollment ratios, methods will have to be
found to provide educational opportunities for children in small villages,
at a reasonable cost. Among the alternatives that could be considered are
increased use of multigrade teaching and biannual entry. In any event, a
careful school location planning exercise would be an essential feature of
any program attempting to address the access issue.
1.20      Even if these pedagogical issues could be quickly resolved, finan-
cial constraints would make universal primary education a policy objective
that can be realized only over the long term. However, as a first step, the
Government could aim at achieving universal access to primary education (i.e.,
a gross Grade 1 enrollment ratio of almost 100%) and a gross overall enroll-
ment ratio of 70-80% by the mM-1990s. Public expenditures on primary
education would then have to increase by about 6.5% per year in real terms,
assuming a 45:1 pupil/teacher ratio. This in itself is not an unrealistic
objective, but it will require budgetary allocations commensurate with the
Government's stated emphasis on primary education.
Quality of Education
1.21      Although pupil/teacher ratios are generally low in both primary and
secondary education, the decline in recurrent expenditures per student has
seriously affected the quality of the inputs in the educational system. At
the primary level, half of the teachers have no professional certification,
practically no textbooks or other learning aids are available, classrooms
in urban areas are overcrowded, many of the school buildings in rural areas
are in poor repair, and school furnishings are often totally lacking.
1.22      The poor quality of the teaching environment has had a negative
impact on the internal efficiency of the system, and about 35% of primary
school students drop out before reaching the end of Grade 7 and about 12%
of pupils in each grade level are repeaters. Much of the dropout is con-
centrated in the lower grades, with slightly higher rates in rural areas.
Boys and girls do not progress equally well through school. Boys constitute
about 60% of students in Grade 1, 65% in Grade 7, 65% in Form I, and 70%
in Form V. In addition there is a sharp difference between Freetown and
the provinces: in Freetown, 60% of secondary school students are boys,
whereas in the provinces the figure is 75%. Although the internal efficiency
of primary schools in Sierra Leone is average or above average compared with
other West African countries, the substantial rural-urban difference and the
lower initial participation and higher dropout rates for girls, especially in
rural areas, pose serious problems.



- 6 -
1.23      Available evidence suggests that student achievement is low in
Sierra Leone. In a mathematics test administered to a representative sample
of 3,000 second, third and fourth graders, only 15% of the second graders
and even smaller percentages of the older students scored at what the test
developers (Mathematics Curriculum Panel) considered an "expected" level for
their grade. Only about 55% of primary school leavers pass the Selective
Entrance Examination each year. Finally, pass rates on the West African
School Certificate Examination ("O" level) are quite low -- about 20%. This
evidence, while fragmentary, supports the complaint often heard in Sierra
Leone that the quality of schooling has been dropping and is now unacceptably
low.
1.24      To improve student achievement and increase the internal efficiency
of primary education, the Government has proposed a comprehensive set of
measures that include upgrading and providing in-service training for unquali-
fied teachers; increasing the supply of learning materials, especially text-
books; and improving physical facilities and school furniture. Furthermore,
to monitor and evaluate the impact of these measures on student achievement,
the Government intends to strengthen the capacity for evaluation.
Institutional Weaknesses
1.25      A serious constraint to the coherent and rational development of
primary education, as well as efficient project implementation, is the weak-
ness of the institutions responsible for managing and planning the education
system. For instance, many of the officials of the Ministry of Education have
been trained as teachers and not as education specialists or administrators.
These institutional problems in the education sector cannot, however, be
isolated from the overall decline in effectiveness that the civil service has
experienced over the past decade, when most civil servants experienced a
30-50% decline in real cash earnings. This erosion of the relative wage
position of the civil service appears to have taken its toll; morale is low
and turnover at many levels of public employment is said to be high, with the
most experienced personnel leaving the civil service.
1.26      The First Education Project (Cr. 170-SL) and, to a larger extent,
the Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL) have provided significant support
to the Ministry of Education's Planning Unit and the Institute of Education
to strengthen their capabilities for educational planning, evaluation,
research, curriculum development, and in-service teacher training. Although
much valuable work has been done, the lack of staff to fill existing vacancies
and the absence of an adequate operating budget have made it difficult to
fully achieve the institutional project objectives. The Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 970-SL) includes a provision for an educational planning adviser
and staff training in educational planning, but this represents only a first
step toward building a local capacity for educational planning and for project
preparation, implementation and evaluation.



- 7-
1.27      The shortage of competent administrators is becoming increasingly
apparent as administrative responsibilities for primary education are de-
centralized to the regional offices (para. 1.13) and the task of managing the
expanding system becomes more complex. The strengthening of educational
administration at both the central and the regional levels is essential to
the long-term success of the Government's plans for the expansion and improve-
ment of primary education. Furthermore, and equally important, particularly as
regards the qualitative measures, is the strengthening of the inspectorate and
the training of headmasters to familiarize them with the new textbooks and
teaching techniques suitable for larger classes and multigrade teaching.
Education Cost and Finance
1.28      The most recent estimates of the Government's average annual
expenditures per student date back to 1977, when they were estimated at
about US$30 for primary education, US$120 for secondary general education,
and US$3,000-5,000 for the University of Sierra Leone. They may, however,
have risen by 60-100% since then. Per student costs in primary education are
therefore estimated at about 25% of GDP per capita (US$68) and about 80% in
secondary education (US$216) (Annex 5), which is average by West African
standards. While the low pupil/teacher ratios (35:1 for primary and 22:1 for
secondary education) increases unit cost levels, the employment of large
numbers of poorly paid uncertified teachers counterbalances this tendency.
1.29      The total recurrent expenditure on education represents 4% of GDP
and 18% of the Government's total recurrent budget for 1981-82. While the
former percentage is roughly similar to that in other West African countries,
the 18% figure is relatively low. In addition, significant financial contri-
butions to education are made by employing authorities and parents. About 40%
of the education budget is allocated to primary education, the median for
sub-Saharan Africa. The Government's financial outlays for primary education
have been considerable in recent years, when expenditure on primary education
as a percentage of GDP increased from 1.3% to 1.6%, which is considerably
above the average in African countries at a similar stage of educational
development.
1.30      Capital expenditures have been heavily concentrated in secondary
and higher education, and the Government has contributed very little to the
expansion of physical facilities at the primary level. In 1977-78 an esti-
mated 60% of the recorded capital expenditures for education were financed by
external agencies. In addition, self-help efforts by parents' associations
contributed to educational investments. Apart from the Bank Group, the most
important bilateral and multilateral donors for educational development
in Sierra Leone are the UK, the EEC, the UNDP and the ADB. The UK is the
main source of technical assistance for educational development.
1.31      Implementation of the planned human resource policies would require
increased allocations to education from the recurrent budget although the
Government's financial difficulties (paras. 1.07-1.09), which are likely to



- 8 -
persist throughout much of the 1980s, make it unlikely that in real terms
available public funding for education will increase before the mid-1980s.
Under these conditions, the further development of the system will have to
be financed initially by a more efficient resource allocation within the
education sector and possibly by a further diversification of the sources of
finance. Specifically, to increase the return on educational expenditures and
to free resources to finance the planned expansion and improvements in quality
of primary education in rural areas, the Government intends to implement mea-
sures that would ultimately lead to the control of costs as well as improved
resource utilization through: (a) a reduction in the duration of primary
education from seven to six years; and (b) implementation of policy measures
aimed at a gradual increase in the number of pupils per teacher in primary
education (paras. 3.09-3.11). Assuming that by the mid-1990s these measures
will have been fully implemented and that about 2% of GDP will be allocated
to primary education, there should be adequate resources to provide a place
in primary schools for 70-80% of the school-age children, including all
six-year-olds (para. 1.20).
The Government's Strategy
1.32      Beginning with the first five-year National Development Plan
(FY75-79), the Government's stated economic policy has given increasing
emphasis to agricultural and rural development as the "motor" of economic
development. For the educational sector this has meant an increased emphasis
on primary education, and in recent years the Government has given increasing
priority to curriculum development and pre-service primary teacher training
through projects supported by the UNDP and the ADB. In 1979, the Government
undertook an in-depth review of its educational sector policies, and its
conclusions emphasized the need to take further steps toward achieving the
above-mentioned policy objectives by implementing: (a) a nationwide primary
school construction program; and (b) a series of measures aiming at improve-
ments in the quality of education, and the teaching staff and the production
of educational materials.
1.33      In regard to training specialized manpower for the agricultural
sector, the Government is emphasizing improvements in the quality of instruc-
tion in the existing institutions, and has obtained assistance from the EEC
and the UK for this purpose.
1.34      The Government's priorities within the educational sector are sound
and in line with the national development priorities. Universal primary
education remains a long-term objective. There is, however, a possibility
that successful implementation of the recommendations of the 1979 sector
review report (para. 1.32) will result in providing, by the mid-1990s, school
places for all children six years of age. We expect improvements in the
quality of education to significantly reduce repetition and dropout rates,
and universal primary education could become a reality around the turn of the
century.



-9-
D.   The Bank Group's Role
Previous Involvement in the Sector
1.35      Both the First Education Project (Cr. 170-SL for US$3.0 million,
signed January 5, 1970) and the Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL for
US$7.25 million, signed July 29, 1975) supported the Government's priorities
for skilled manpower development by providing assistance for: (a) the diversi-
fication and expansion of secondary education programs, especially with
regard to the teaching of science and practical skills; (b) the expansion and
upgrading of trade schools and technical institutes; and (c) the provision of
facilities for secondary technical teacher training and management training,
and the upgrading of facilities for primary teacher training. In addition,
the second project actively supported the Government's more rurally oriented
development strategy through the creation of a training institute for community
development workers. It also supported educational planning and research in
fields promoting improvement of the quality of primary education as well as
primary teacher upgrading. A series of studies on the improvement and
expansion of primary education provided the basis for the project proposed in
this report. The Bank Group has also supported manpower development in
Sierra Leone through training components in agricultural, power and technical
assistance projects.
1.36      The First Education Project was completed at the end of 1975, about
18 months behind the appraisal schedule. The project's principal objectives
were to:  (a) better prepare secondary school students for employment, mainly
through the introduction of practical training streams; and (b) strengthen the
general administrative and planning capabilities of the Ministry of Education.
All schools are now in operation.  Civil works were provided efficiently.
The Ministry was largely successful in building up its administrative and
planning capacities. In contrast, the forecast targets more directly related
to project school operations fell short initially owing to, inter alia,
shortages of practical subject teachers and consumable student materials. It
proved difficult to fully meet the objectives of the primary teacher upgrading
program at the Freetown Teachers College. This program was set up to train
unqualified primary school teachers in the afternoon and evening hours, using
the teaching facilities of a secondary school. The Project Completion Report
described the FTC's difficulties in attracting unqualified teachers for this
program, since most practicing teachers found it too demanding to hold teach-
ing jobs while studying. As a result, only half the students in 1975 were
practicing teachers. The technical assistance program was ineffective, due
to inappropriate scheduling vis-a-vis the completion of project facilities.
Nevertheless, this project compared favorably with other previously audited
education projects with respect to general institutional achievements,
according to the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 1433 dated
January 26, 1977), although there has been little improvement in the FTC
program since the PPAR was written. The Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL)
was completed by the end of 1982, about two years behind schedule because of
start-up delays. After the first two years, project implementation accelerated
and most project institutions are now operational. A completion mission is



- 10 -
scheduled for the first half of 1983. It will provide us with an opportunity
to assess--in perspective--the impact of some project activities carried out
under both the First and Second Education Projects.
Lending Priorities
1.37      The Government's development strategy emphasizes investments in
the agricultural sector to strengthen and diversify the country's renewable
resource base, stimulate export earnings, and improve the income levels of the
rural population (para. 1.32). The low rate of schooling (para. 1.16) and
the resulting high illiteracy rates among adults (para. 1.03) are likely to
be serious constraints to the efforts to increase agricultural production.
Consequently, expanding access and improving the quality of primary education
are the top sectoral priorities, especially in light of the growing body of
evidence based on research in several parts of the world which indicates that
education, especially at the lower levels, is an essential condition for
economic and social development. Education has been found to be positively
related to changes in agricultural and industrial productivity and earnings,
the adoption of modern economic behavior, and the acceptance of modern health
and nutrition practices. Increasing access to primary education programs of
good quality is probably the most effective way to bring about a long-term
increase in the earnings of low-income people and thus reduce income distribu-
tion inequities. Consequently, primary education and related teacher training
are priorities for Bank Group lending.
1.38      Successful implementation of the Government's program for the
development of primary education will to a large extent be contingent upon
the successful implementation of measures aimed at containing costs (para.
1.31). Progress in this respect would be monitored during project imple-
mentation. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
would furnish IDA with a plan for its review and comments on the execution
of measures to improve the use of resources available for primary education.
These measures would include reducing the duration of primary education
and increasing the pupil/teacher ratio by one additional pupil per year
(paras 1.31, 3.09-3.11). The Government would furnish IDA with this plan by
December 31, 1983 and submit a progress report on the implementation of
the cost-containment measures to IDA for review before December 31, 1985
(para. 3.11). Possible future Bank Group assistance for the primary educa-
tion development program would be contingent on the results of this review.
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
2.01      The project would assist the Government in moving toward achieve-
ment of the following priority policy objectives for the sector (para. 1.32):
(a) improvement in the quality of primary education through support to primary



teacher training and the provision of textbooks; and (b) increase in access
to primary education in rural areas through the construction of primary
schools.
2.02      The project would also support the Government's efforts to strengthen
the country's capacity for educational planning, administration, management,
evaluation, and effective project implementation.
B.   Project Components
2.03      The project would be implemented during the six-year period between
1983-88, and would comprise the following components:
Part I: Development of Primary Education
(a)   Primary education.  Construction, and operation of about 500 class-
rooms, with about 22,500 student places, in rural areas and provi-
sion of (i) furniture and equipment for these classes and (ii)
specialist services to develop standards and simple designs for
school buildings and furniture. Construction of about 66 staff
houses including furniture for primary school teachers at schools in
remote locations.
(b)   Primary teacher training.  Construction and operation of a primary
teacher training college in Freetown, construction of three staff
houses, and provision of (i) furniture and equipment and (ii)
specialist services for studying the efficiency of teacher training.
(c)   Textbook procurement and distribution.  Construction, and provision
of furniture, equipment, consumable materials, specialist services
and fellowships to (i) procure, store and distribute primary school
textbooks, (ii) improve the existing central book storage facility
in Freetown and nine district book warehouses, and (iii) operate the
textbook task force.
Part II: Strengthening the Administrative, Planning and Evaluation Capacities
Providing equipment, specialist services and fellowships, and operating
programs for:
(a)  improving the administrative and educational skills of all key
staff at the central, regional and local levels concerned with
primary education, and providing training to support the implemen-
tation of the textbook component;
(b)  strengthening the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education,
specifically its capacity to collect educational data and carry
out school location planning;
(c)  promoting studies to be conducted by the Planning Unit staff,
emphasizing topics related to education planning and financing;
and



- 12 -
(d) strengthening evaluation research, specifically on matters
related to the textbook component.
Part III: Project Management
Strengthening and operating the Project Unit established under the First
Education Project, by providing equipment and local staff services.
C.   Project Description
Primary Schools
2.04      To assist the Government in increasing access to primary education
(para. 1.20), the project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for about 500 classrooms in about 170 primary schools located in rural areas.
(The project also includes provision for the incremental recurrent costs
generated by these schools during project implementation.) Most of the
schools would have two or three classrooms. This would add about 22,500
student places to the primary school system, representing a 10% increase in
present enrollments, and would assist in increasing access to primary educa-
tion in rural areas. The project would provide about 66 staff houses and
furniture for primary school teachers serving in the most remote project
schools where rented accommodation is not available. This would help attract
better qualified staff to the most remote school locations. The staff
would be required to pay a rent equivalent to 12% of their salaries (about
US$305 per year) in accordance with the Government's staff housing policy.
2.05      The new primary school curricula, approved by the Ministry of Educa-
tion in 1981, would also be applied in the project schools. The curricula
include the following subjects: English language, mathematics, science,
and environmental and social studies.
2.06      The project schools would operate with multigrade teaching, as all
six primary grades would be taught in two or three classrooms. The teaching
would be supported through the supply of simple instructional equipment.
2.07      All the project schools would be located in sparsely populated
rural areas: 300 classrooms in the Northern Province and 200 classrooms
in the Southern and Eastern Provinces. This would allow the enrollment ratio
in these provinces to increase to about 30-40% from the present average of
20-30%. The Government and IDA agreed during appraisal that the project
schools would be located in accordance with the following criteria:
(a) the selected villages should have a central location in relation
to neighboring villages without schools, and should have a popula-
tion growth potential and be accessible for modern transport and
construction;
(b) the catchment area for a two-classroom school should have a minimum
of about 150 children of school age (5-11 years), and for a three-
classroom school the catchment area should have a minimum of about



- 13 -
225 children (20-25% of the total population is estimated to be of
primary school age). The walking distance from home to a school
site should not, as a rule, exceed three miles one way; and
(c)   the local authorities should show interest in having a school built
in their area, and should (i) provide an acceptable school site and
access roads without cost to the Government, and (ii) make rental
housing available for teachers whenever possible.
2.08      Acceptable sites for about 85 primary schools, with about 250
classrooms, for the first phase of construction to be implemented in 1983-84
were already selected by appraisal. The Government gave assurances during
negotiations that a list of all sites for the primary school and staff housing
construction program would be submitted for IDA's review and approval by
December 31, 1983.
2.09      As an experiment, six pilot primary schools were constructed under
the Second Education Project in selected rural locations. They were designed
and equipped to serve community needs as well as to teach multigrade classes.
The objectives of this experiment were to: (a) test an alternative L-shaped
classroom design for multigrade teaching; (b) determine the capability of
small contractors to build small, simple buildings in remote locations;
and (c) assess the implications for the Project Unit of supervising direct
labor and supplying materials on site. At appraisal it was found that: (a)
L-shaped classrooms are suitable for small schools with one or two classrooms
and six grades; (b) in addition to a higher financial class of contractor, the
medium financial class of contractors ranging from Le 50,000 to 100,000
(US$40,000-85,000) could participate in the primary school construction
program, with the Project Unit assisting in the procurement and transportation
of materials such as roofing sheets, roof trusses, windows, doors and cement;
and (c) using direct labor with the present designs and construction methods
would result in irregular work progress, require intensive supervision and
should not be used at this point. The experience gained from this pilot
project will be applied to implementation of the project schools.
2.10      In addition to the construction program, the project includes a
provision for two staffyears of technical assistance by an architect to develop
simple standard designs for primary schools and school furniture in order to
help the villagers construct additional schools with their own means. These
voluntary efforts will be needed to help the Government meet an increasing
demand for classrooms during the 1980s. The architect would be attached to
the Project Unit.
Primary Teacher Training
2.11      The project would finance construction, furniture and equipment
for a new primary teacher training college, including incremental recurrent
costs for teachers' salaries (para. 3.08). The college now operates in a
secondary school which was expanded under the First Education Project (Cr.
170-SL) for common use by the secondary school and the college; that project
provided office space, storage facilities, a staff room for the college, and



- 14 -
some common teaching space. The college has continued to offer a four-year
training program for unqualified practicing teachers during day and evening
hours, but difficulties in operating the teacher upgrading program persist,
and only half the students are actually employed as teachers. Although
the Government has started giving the practicing teachers leaves of absence
with pay during their final year of study, passing rates in final examinations
remain low. One reason for this low achievement may be the difficulty the
college has experienced in finding good instructors for the evening courses.
In addition, the present output from the teacher training colleges is inade-
quate to meet the needs of an expanded primary education system (Annex 7).
Therefore, the Government has decided to replace this program with a full-
time program to be offered at a new teacher training college. When the new
college becomes operational, the secondary school facilities would be used
for secondary education only. The proposed new college would include faci-
lities for preservice and in-service training of primary school teachers, a
six-classroom demonstration school, and three staff houses for teachers. The
demonstration school would be built with the same standard design as the
project primary schools. The staff housing is needed for security reasons,
since the campus, with its substantial equipment supply, would otherwise be
unattended after school hours, and for the supervision of students who would
be using the library after school hours. The staff would be requested to pay
a rent equivalent to 20% of their salaries (about US$1,255 per year) in
accordance with the Government's staff housing policy.
2.12      Sierra Leone has five colleges for training primary school teachers.
The total student capacity is about 1,200 and the enrollment in 1981-82 was
about 1,750. The new college, replacing one of the five existing colleges,
would have a capacity for 432 day students in a three-year program which would
have an annual output of about 130 graduates. One-third of the students would
be women. The total output of the country's five teacher training colleges
during the 1980s would increase the percentage of qualified primary school
teachers from about 50% in 1982-83 to about 60%-70% in 1990-91 (Annexes
7 and 8).
2.13      The entrance requirements for the teacher training program include
completion of five years of secondary education with at least three ordinary-
level passes according to the standards of the West Africa Examinations
Council, or at least three years of teaching experience and a passing grade in
an entrance test established by the Ministry of Education. Unqualified
teachers with teaching experience could be admitted directly into the second
or the third year of the program. The Freetown college facilities will also
be used for vacation upgrading courses for unqualified teachers.
2.14      The college would operate on the basis of a new curriculum introduced
in 1980. The teacher training courses would be gradually adjusted to support
the new primary school curricula (para. 2.05). The experience gained from the
ongoing UNDP-financed teacher training and curriculum development project at
Bunumbu Teachers College, which is geared to the educational needs of the
rural population and which will be completed in 1983, would be taken into
account in the further development of the teacher training program.



- 15 -
2.15      Training in teaching methods and techniques would be offered by the
new college in Freetown in facilities designed for micro-teaching and in the
demonstration school. Practice teaching would be offered at primary schools
in the Freetown area. Emphasis would be given to techniques of teaching
multigrade and large classes as well as in the efficient use of textbooks.
2.16      The college instructors would be subject specialists, most of them
with academic training from the University of Sierra Leone and/or extensive
teaching experience in primary schools. The average number of students per
instructor in teacher training would continue to be about 12, and the number
of students in the demonstration school at the college would be about 35-40
per class. The number of instructors in the college would increase by about
11, and the project includes provision for incremental costs of salaries
during project implementation (para. 3.08).
2.17      The Freetown college facilities and staff would also be used by the
Ministry of Education for the in-service training of primary school teachers
and other educational staff during the school year as well as during school
vacations. The courses would be organized by the Institute of Education and
would be similar to those which will be offered by the Instructional Resource
Centers established at the existing primary teacher training colleges under
the Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL).
2.18      The planned expansion of primary education (para 1.20) will not only
have quantitative implications for teacher training, but will require programs
to prepare students for teaching in rural areas where small schools and
multigrade teaching prevail. To assess the development of primary teacher
training and the future demand for teachers, the project would finance three
staffmonths of technical assistance for a study, to be undertaken in 1986, of
the efficiency, capacity, utilization and demand for teachers in primary
education. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the study
would be carried out in accordance with a research design acceptable to IDA and
the completed study will be submitted to IDA for review and comments before
December 31, 1986.
Textbook Procurement and Distribution
2.19      The availability of textbooks in the primary school system is
generally very low and in many schools, especially those in rural areas,
no textbooks at all are available (para. 1.21). To alleviate this problem,
the project includes construction, specialist services and funds for the
procurement and distribution of primary school textbooks, and operating funds
for a textbook task force. Specifically, the project would finance (a) the
procurement and distribution over a three-year period of about one million
textbooks and 125,000 teachers' guides in English, mathematics, science and
social studies for primary Grades 1-6; and (b) structural improvements,
furniture and equipment for the existing central book storage facility (Tower
Hill) in Freetown and for nine existing district book warehouses.



- 16 -
2.20      The books would be basic textbooks, readers, activity books,
teachers' guides and dictionaries, all written in English. For teaching
English in Grades 1-6, there would be one basic pupils' book and one teachers'
guide for each grade, in addition to extra pupil books such as activity books
and readers. For Grades 4-6, English teachers would be provided with dic-
tionaries. For teaching mathematics in Grades 1-6 there would be one pupils'
book and one teachers' guide for each grade. For science and social studies
there would be a teachers' guide in each subject for each grade and pupil
books in each subject for Grades 3-6 (Annex 9). The 58 different book titles
would be distributed to all primary schools, the primary teacher training
colleges, and other government institutions concerned with the project. The
allocation of basic textbooks to the schools would be at the rate of one book
for two students, readers at the rate of one for six or eight students, and
teachers' guides at the rate of one per teacher in each subject. The textbooks
would be kept in the schools and used by the pupils during school hours.
2.21      The curricula developed by the curriculum panels in the Institute of
Education would form the basis for the development of textbooks and teachers'
guides (para. 2.05). The textbooks would be adapted versions of existing
books which would be published for use in Sierra Leone to fit the agreed new
curricula, with contributions from Sierra Leonean authors where appropriate.
Certain teachers' guides would be written by local authors. The publishers
would make the necessary adaptations in cooperation with the textbook committee
which the Ministry of Education has created.
2.22      The textbook component, except for operating costs, would be financed
by the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA). The textbooks would
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to ODA (paras. 3.06 and
4.13) from among prequalified tenderers. Small editions of books might be
printed locally by the Government Printers. All materials issued under the
project would be copyrighted by the Ministry of Education (Government), or
copyrighted jointly with the publishers. Royalties, if any, would be deter-
mined as part of contract negotiations.
2.23      The textbooks provided by the Government would carry an imprint
showing that they are Government property and not for sale. Publishers
would be allowed to issue their own editions of the same books for sale and
these books would not carry the Government imprint.
2.24      To avoid overloading the school system and teaching staff and to
execute a successive introduction of the textbooks in the classrooms, dis-
tribution would be carried out over a period of three years, starting with
210,000 textbooks and teachers' guides for Grade 1 in 1984-85, followed by
406,000 for Grades 2 and 3 in 1985-86, and 509,000 for Grades 4-6 in 1986-87.
The central book warehouse at Tower Hill and the nine district book ware-
houses would be upgraded and equipped under the project. The books would
be distributed from the central book storage facility through commercial
transport hired on a competitive basis. Transport from the district offices
to the schools would be organized by the district inspectorate in cooperation
with the schools, and headmasters would collect the books during their regular
visits to the district offices. Large quantities of books for the villages



- 17 -
would be transported by commercial means to community centers for pick-up.
The textbooks would be kept in the schools in lockable cabinets provided under
the project.
2.25      A temporary task force would be established to initially coordinate
the preparation, production and distribution of textbooks. This task force
would report to the Ministry of Education and work closely with the Project
Unit. The task force is expected to evolve into a national textbook service.
The task force would have its own staff. An advisory committee, to be
appointed by the Minister of Education and composed of representatives of all
parties concerned, would be established to assist and advise the director of
the task force, who is now being recruited by the Minister of Education.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that the textbook task
force would be established and the advisory committee appointed not later than
August 31, 1983. The members would have appropriate qualifications and
experience. The project includes provisions for financing the operating costs
of the task force which will eventually evolve into a national textbook
service.
2.26      The deputy to the manager of the central book storage warehouse
funded under the project would design a warehouse system for the central
facility and the district warehouses. The distribution manager, also paid
by the project, would design a textbook distribution and storage system
and would supervise its implementation.
2.27      Specialist staff and consultants would be provided under the project
to assist the task force in implementing the textbook component (Annex 12),
and fellowships would be provided for training the staff (Annex 14).
2.28      Administrative and educational staff at all levels of the primary
school system would receive training in effective use of the textbooks and
in record-keeping. The textbook component would be evaluated during project
implementation (para. 2.36). In light of the experience gained during the
implementation of the textbook component, the Government would study the
organizational, legal and financial frameworks for a national textbook service
and prepare relevant draft legal documents. During negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that it would submit the study and draft legal documents
to IDA for review and comments not later than June 30, 1985, and establish the
national textbook service by June 30, 1986.
Training of Administrative and Educational Staff
2.29      Management and development of the primary school system are hampered
by the fact that most educational administrators lack adequate management
training and experience (paras. 1.25 and 1.27). To assist the Government in
making administration more efficient and improving the quality of pedagogical
support and supervision, the project would finance 45 two-week workshops for
training administrative and educational staff concerned with primary education
at the central, regional and local levels and in the primary teacher training
colleges. The project would also include financing for travel funds (about
US$200,000) to increase the inspectorate staff's mobility. This would contri-
bute to better monitoring of primary school activities and also help to keep
the schools informed about the education project.



- 18 -
2.30      The workshops would (a) promote improvement of key staff capabili-
ties in such areas as administration and supervision of education, management
of curriculum development and change, and educational statistics and finance;
and (b) promote the development of more specific skills, such as compiling of
educational statistics, school location planning, methods of teaching multi-
grade classes, and school maintenance. The workshops would also support the
implementation of the project, particularly the textbook component.
2.31      The workshops would be conducted under the responsibility of the
Itinistry of Education, but the Institute of Public Administration and Manage-
ment (IPAM) would be responsible for preparation of the courses and organiza-
tion of the necessary logistical support in close cooperation with the Ministry.
A steering committee composed of representatives of the authorities involved
in the training program would be created, and a program coordinator/lecturer
would be employed full time.
2.32      The workshops would be arranged for two levels of staff.  The first
series of workshops would be for about 30 key administrators, including staff
from the Ministry of Education and the inspectorates, regional supervisory
staff, and principals of teacher training colleges. The workshops, which
would be conducted in Freetown, would deal with all matters relating to
primary education but would concentrate on central and regional administration
and organization. The second series of workshops would be for about 1,000
school supervisors, teacher supervisors, and head teachers of primary schools.
These workshops would be conducted in the regions, using staff from the
Ministry of Education, the teacher training colleges and the inspectorates as
instructors; they would also deal with a wide range of educational matters but
would concentrate on matters relating to the implementation of the project,
particularly the textbook component. Outlines of the workshop programs were
reviewed at appraisal. The Government gave assurances during negotiations
that it would submit the final programs and the cost estimates for each series
of annual workshops planned for the upcoming school year to IDA before
August 31 of each year for review and approval.
2.33      The funds for inspectorate staff travel would be used to promote
better monitoring of school activities through school visits and arrangement
of courses and conferences by the inspectorate staff. The Ministry of Educa-
tion would be responsible for planning the use of the travel funds allocated
under the project. The inspectorate staff would use regular means of trans-
portation and would follow the established rules for travel compensation in
Sierra Leone. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
detailed plans for the use of the funds for the forthcoming school year and a
report on the use of the funds during the preceding school year would be
prepared by the Ministry by August 31 of each year, and submitted to IDA for
review.
Educational Planning
2.34      The Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education is hampered in its
activities because of a lack of adequately trained staff and operating funds
(para. 1.25). To strengthen educational planning, the project would provide
the Planning Unit with specialist services, fellowships for staff training,



- 19 -
equipment, and some operating funds. This assistance would support the key
activities of the Planning UJnit and would focus on: (a) the establishment
and implementation of a system for the continuous collection of educational
statistics; (b) the preparation of a school location plan ("school mapping");
(c) the training of junior and senior staff of the Planning Unit; and (d)
studies on issues concerning the planning and financing of education. Similar
assistance was provided to the Planning Unit under the Second Education
Project (para. 1.35). The Ministry of Education is preparing a plan to
strengthen the Planning Unit. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that it would furnish the Association for its review and comments
not later than December 31, 1983, a plan to strengthen the Planning Unit, and
start implementing this plan not later than July 1, 1985.
2.35      In support of the above efforts, the project includes financing
for an educational planning adviser, who would be employed for two years
beginning July 1, 1983, or later, when the contract of the educational adviser
presently working in the Planning Unit under the First Technical Assistance
Project (para. 1.26) expires. Terms of reference for the adviser have been
agreed to between the Government and IDA. Three fellowships (9 staffmonths
each) in educational planning, educational statistics and school location
planning would be awarded to junior staff employed by the Planning Unit.
During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would award
these fellowships to Planning Unit Staff employed in established positions.
Evaluation
2.36      The textbook component is new to the country and is expected not
only to have a major impact on pedagogical activities in the primary schools,
but also to place a heavy burden on the administrative and organizational
capacities of the education system. Evaluation of the impact of project
activities would be conducted under the project.
2.37      The project would finance fellowships, specialist services and
operating costs in support of (a) a study on the impact of the textbook
component on changes in student achievement, attendance and promotion rates;
and (b) a study on the distribution, storage and use of textbooks. The
project also includes support for other studies related to the project
components, e.g., on patterns of entry into and exit from the teaching
profession, and problems of multigrade teaching in rural primary schools.
2.38      All the project-financed research and evaluation studies would be
coordinated by the Institute of Education, which is expected to play a key
role in their implementation, and encourage the use of the research capabili-
ties of the IUniversity of Sierra Leone, Milton Margai Teachers College, and
other local institutions. The Institute of Education would also assist in the
preparation of the project completion report (para. 4.20). The Government
gave assurances during negotiations that all the studies would be carried out
in accordance with research designs acceptable to IDA, and that the reports on
textbook use and textbook studies would be submitted to IDA for review before
December 31, 1986.



- 20 -
Project Management
2.39      The Project Unit responsible for implementation of the First and
Second Projects was established under the Ministry of Finance. The Unit would
coordinate implementation of the third project, and would continue to be
responsible to the Ministry of Finance. In order to strengthen the Unit, this
project includes financing for equipment, staff salaries and Unit operating
costs (paras. 4.04-4.07).



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01       The breakdown of costs by component is detailed in Annex 10 and
summarized below.
% of Foreign
Base Exchange
Project Item          Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Cost  as % of
 --Le million------  ---US$ million-----               Total
Development of
Primary Education
Primary Schools         11.7      5.0    16.7    9.4    4.0    13.4   64.9    29.8
Primary Teacher
Training                1.1      1.7      2.8    0.9    1.3       2.2   10.8    59.9
Textbook Procurement
& Distribution          0.6      1.9      2.5    0.5    1.5       2.0    9.8    74.4
Strengthening of
Administration, Plan-
ning and Evaluation
Capacities
Training of Key Staff  0.5        0.1      0.6    0.4    0.1       0.5    2.4    17.3
Strengthening of the
Planning Unit           0.1      0.5      0.7    0.1    0.4       0.5    2.7    79.8
Evaluation               0.2      0.2      0.4    0.2    0.1       0.3    1.5    41.5
Project Management         1.7      0.4      2.0    1.3    0.3       1.6    7.9    18.1
Base Cost               16.0      9.7    25.7   12.8    7.8    20.6  100.0    37.7
Physical Contin-
gencies                 1.0      0.7      1.7    0.8    0.6       1.3    6.5    41.9
Price Contingencies    4.6        2.1      6.7    3.7    1.7       5.3   26.0    31.5
Total Project Cost        21.6    12.5    34.1   17.3   10.0    27.3  132.5    36.7
Note:  Identifiable taxes and duties are about Le 2.1 million (US$1.7 million
equivalent). The total project cost net-of-taxes is Le 32.0 million
(US$25.6 million equivalent).
Not all columns in the table above add up to the exact totals shown due to
rounding.



- 22 -
3.02      The cost estimates for civil works are for October 1982 and are
based on preliminary designs reviewed during appraisal and unit costs derived
from construction contracts awarded from 1977 to 1981 for similar buildings.
Goods imported for the project will be exempted from customs duties and other
import taxes, and expatriate specialists will be exempted from income taxes.
However, sales taxes and income taxes on local specialist salaries paid by
the project are included in the total project cost. The average net-of-tax
cost of construction for the project-financed Freetown Teachers College (FTC)
is estimated at US$365 per square meter. The cost per student place for
academic and communal facilities at the FTC is estimated at US$2,285 which
is lower than construction costs for similar institutions in neighboring
countries. The average net-of-tax cost of construction for the primary
schools is estimated at US$128 per square meter. The cost per student place
in the primary schools is estimated at US$258. The average cost of expatriate
specialists, based on recent recruitment experience of international organiza-
tions and the Government, is estimated at USS8,000 per staffmonth, including
salary, allowances and overhead, and the cost of local specialists will
average about $1,000 per staffmonth.
3.03      Estimated costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
Foreign
Category                                                                    % of    Exchange
of Expenditure         Local Foreign Total 1/  Local Foreign Total 1/  Base Cost  as % of
----Le million -----      ----US$ million----                    Total
Capital Costs
Civil Works           8.41   5.40  13.81        6.72   4.32  11.04        53.4        39.1
Professional Fees    0.20   0.14   0.34         0.17   0.11   0.28          1.4       40.0
Furniture             1.10   0.68   1.78        0.89   0.54   1.43          6.9       38.1
Equipment             0.04   0.83   0.87        0.04   0.66   0.70          3.4       95.0
Textbooks             0.05   1.05   1.10        0.04   0.84   0.88          4.3       95.0
Specialist Services  0.89   1.14   2.03         0.71   0.92   1.63         7.9        56.4
Training of Local
Personnel            0.23   0.21   0.44        0.18   0.17   0.35          1.7       47.2
Operating Costs 2/   1.86   0.27   2.13         1.49   0.22   1.70         8.3        12.7
Incremental
Recurrent Costs         3.26   0.00   3.26        2.61   0.00   2.61         12.7       0.00
Base Costs           16.04   9.72  25.76       12.84   7.78  20.62        100.0       37.7
Physical Contin-
gencies              0.98   0.70   1.68        0.78   0.56   1.34         6.5        41.9
Price Contingencies  4.58   2.10   6.68         3.66   1.68   5.34        26.0        31.5
Total Project Cost    21.60  12.52  34.12        17.28  10.02  27.30       132.5        36.7
1/   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
2/   Operating costs are defined as costs necessary to implement the project.
These expenses would end when the project is completed.



- 23 -
3.04      The project includes physical contingency allowances for 10% of the
base cost for civil works, furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for
price escalation is 26.0% of base cost plus physical contingencies. The price
contingency allowance was estimated on the basis of the following trends in
the prices of both local and foreign goods and services:
Category                                1983   1984   1985   1986-88
Civil works, furniture, equipment
and textbooks:   Foreign              8.0%    7.5%   7.0%    6.0%
Local             10.0%   10.0%  10.0%   10.0%
Specialist services:  Expatriate        8.0%    7.5%   7.0%    6.0%
Local           5.0%    5.0%   5.0%    5.0%
Fellowships                             8.0%    7.5%   7.0%    6.0%
The price increases for local civil works costs were estimated on the basis
of the 1977-80 trend. Price contingencies for local salaries, estimated at
5%, are in line with Government policies.
3.05      The estimated foreign exchange component of US$10.0 million repre-
sents about 36.7% of the total project cost of US$27.3 million. This has been
calculated as follows: civil works for the primary schools and the textbook
stores, 36%, and for the FTC, 59%; furniture for the primary schools, 25%;
other facilities, 95%; equipment, 95%; professional fees, 40%; specialist
services and fellowships, 90%; and operating costs, excluding salaries, 13%.
Financing Plan
3.06      The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 18.5
million (US$20.0 million) and a grant of approximately US$2 million equivalent
from the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) for financing the
textbook component (para 2.22). The Financing Plan would be as follows:



- 24 -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government
of which
Total Cost   IDA      ODA      Total    Taxes
Civil Works                           11.0     10.0      0.1       0.9       0.9
Professional Fees                      0.3      0.3
Furniture                              1.4      1.2      0.1       0.1       0.1
Equipment                              0.7       0.7
Textbooks                              0.9               0.9
Specialist Services                    1.6      1.1      0.4       0.1      0.1
Training of Local Personnel            0.4      0.3      0.1
Operating Costs                        1.7      1.1                0.6       0.1
Incremental
Recurrent Costs                     2.6        _                 2.6
Total Base Cost                    20.6      14.7      1.6       4.3      1.2
Physical Contingencies                 1.3      1.2       -        0.1       0.1
Price Contingencies                    5.4      4.1      0.3       1.0      0.4
Total Cost                         27.3      20.0      1.9       5.4      1.7
Details of this Financing Plan are shown in Annex 11.
ODA would finance all costs of the textbook component except for the opera-
ting costs (US$1.9 million). The IDA credit would finance the rest of the
project's foreign exchange costs (US$8.1 million) and 69% of the local costs
including 65% of the operating costs (US$11.9 million). The Government would
finance all incremental recurrent costs, 35% of the operating costs and all
the taxes levied on the project goods and services. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that it would make adequate provisions in its
recurrent budget to cover the incremental recurrent costs included in the
project, and adequately staff the project institutions.



- 25 -
Recurrent Cost Implications
A.   Project-related
3.07      The table below shows the annual incremental recurrent expenditures
we expect each component to generate upon completion of the project.
Increased Recurrent Costs Per
Annum After Project Completion,
Project Component                           1988 (in 1982 prices) Le
Primary School Teachers (500)                           530,000
Teacher Trainers (11)                                    85,000
Textbook Task Force:
Professional Staff       33,400
Nonprofessional Staff    7,700
Advisory Committee         3,900
Other Costs              20,000                   65,000
680,000
The total annual recurrent costs generated by the project after project
completion represent about 1% of the Ministry of Education's 1981-82 budget.
3.08      During the implementation period, the project would include pro-
vision for the incremental recurrent costs for 500 primary school teachers
(para. 2.04), 11 teacher trainers (para. 2.16), and the textbook task force
(para. 2.25). The Government would continue to make these budgetary provi-
sions upon completion of the project. To ensure that the procurement of
textbooks for primary schools will continue after project completion at the
end of 1988, the Government may have to seek additional external assistance
for that purpose, or set up a cost-sharing system, if by that time it still
faces financial constraints, and cannot include adequate financing in its
recurrent budget.
B.   Sector-related
3.09      Implementation of the Government's policy objectives, aiming at a
simultaneous quality improvement and expansion of primary education, could be
constrained by the tight budgetary situation. The Government is currently
spending about 18% of its total recurrent budget on education, but unit
costs have been increasing in recent years (para. 1.28) and are now comparable
to unit costs in neighboring countries (Annex 5). The cost of increasing the
percentage of qualified teachers from the present estimated 50% to about 70%
of the total and providing the schools with textbooks would add about Le 15 to



- 26 -
the unit costs and would increase primary education unit costs by about 22%.
However, savings would be generated by: (a) the reduction in the duration
of primary education from seven to six years, starting with implementation of
the new curriculum in Grade 1 in 1984-85; and (b) the increase in pupil/teacher
ratios from 35:1 to 45:1 (para. 1.31). Combined, these measures are not
expected to lead to substantial increases in primary education expenditures,
and the improved resources allocation would result in gains in the quality of
education.
3.10       Increases in class sizes would be brought about by increasing the
number of pupils per teacher as a basis for the payment of salary grants
to the employing authorities, and would be enhanced by the project through
(a) developing a design for primary school buildings suitable for multigrade
teaching, and constructing school buildings using this design; (b) adjusting
the location and size of new schools to population density to allow for full
use of student places; and (c) training teachers and school administrators in
methods of teaching large and multigrade classes. Savings on salary grants to
employing authorities would be achieved through successive increases during
the implementation period in the number of pupils per teacher as a basis for
salary grants. The first increase would be from 35 pupils per teacher in
1982-83 to 36 in 1983-84. These measures are expected to gradually increase
the teacher/pupil ratio from about 1:35 in 1982-83 to a ratio of 1:45 not
later than the 1991-92 school year.
3.11      The Government has submitted to IDA a copy of a circular issued to
the employing authorities, defining the method of calculation of salary grants
on the basis of 36 pupils per teacher for the year 1983-84. Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that the measures mentioned
in paras. 3.09 and 3.10 above would be implemented, that an annual circular
would be issued to the employing authorities, reflecting an incremental increase
of one pupil per teacher as a basis for salary grants, and that a report would
be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1985 for review of progress in implementing
the above measures.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Preparation
4.01      The project was prepared with funds supplied under the Second
Education Project (Cr. 573/52-SL). Educational specifications for all the
project institutions have been prepared and working papers are available for
each project component. A locally established firm of consulting architects
has been appointed for the architectural design work. The Government has
reviewed with IDA the experience gained with primary school construction under
the Second Education Project, conducted a full evaluation upon completion of
the schools and submitted the results to IDA. The conclusions of this evalua-
tion have been incorporated into the bidding documents for the construction of
500 primary school classrooms. The equipment list for the schools was approved
by IDA during appraisal. The Government has prepared bidding documents for
the first phase of the school construction and equipment program. These were
reviewed during negotiations.



- 27 -
4.02      Architectural briefs and sketches and equipment lists for the
Freetown Teachers College (FTC) were reviewed and fotnd acceptable by IDA
during appraisal. Final drawings were reviewed during negotiations. Documents
for prequalifying textbook suppliers were prepared and found acceptable by IDA
(para 2.22).
4.03      Construction of buildings and installation of equipment for the FTC
is expected to be completed by October 1988 and for the primary schools by
October 1987. Provision of textbooks and specialist services would continue
until December 1986. The entire project would be completed by the end of 1988
and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1989, to allow for closing all the
project accounts.
Project Management
4.04      The educational aspects of the project would be implemented by
existing government agencies, as indicated in para. 4.05 below. Coordination
of project activities would be the responsibility of the Project Unit, which
was created within the Ministry of Finance under the First Education Project
(Cr. 170-SL) and which also implemented the Second Education Project
(Cr. 573-SL). The Project Unit would continue to be responsible to the
Ministry of Finance for the implementation of the third education project.
4.05      Several government agencies would be involved in the implementation
of the educational aspects of the project, as set out below.
(a)  Primary education.  All educational matters would be handled
by the Inspectorate and the Institute of Education. Decisions
concerning primary school locations would be made by the Ministry
of Education after preparation by the Planning Unit.
(b)  Teacher training.  All matters regarding the education and training
of teachers would be handled by the Ministry of Education.
(c)  Textbook procurement and distribution.  This component would be
implemented by the textbook task force, reporting to the Ministry
of Education (para. 2.25). Policies and decisions by the Ministry
regarding this component would be formulated by the textbook
advisory committee in cooperation with the Institute of Education.
(d)  Staff training.  The training of educational and administrative
staff would be implemented by the Institute of Public Administration
and Management (IPMI) at the University of Sierra Leone, under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Education.
(e)  Planning Unit.  The measures for strengthening the Planning Unit
would be implemented by the Ministry of Education. The training
of educational and administrative staff by IPAM, as well as the
measures supporting the Planning Unit, would contribute to
strengthening the Ministry's institutional capacity as a whole.



- 28 -
(f) Evaluation. This component would be implemented by the Institute
of Education in collaboration with the Planning Unit of the Ministry
of Education.
4.06      Responsibility for project coordination, administration and procure-
ment would be centralized in the Project Unit, which would also (a) coordinate
project implementation at the national level, (b) liaise with the government
agencies concerned, (c) supervise construction of the primary schools and the
structural improvement of the book stores, and (d) monitor project implementa-
tion to ascertain compliance with the Credit Agreement and other project
documents.
4.07      The Project lJnit is well managed and efficient, and all its staff
are Sierra Leoneans. In 1979 the Government assigned the Project Unit the
additional responsibility of implementing other education projects. The first
was financed by the African Development Bank. In that same year, the Ministry
of Education and the Project Unit staff jointly undertook a review of the main
issues in the education sector. During implementation of the First and Second
Education Projects, the Project Unit staff acquired experience in all aspects
of project implementation. This experience will be used to strengthen the
capacity of all the government agencies involved in implementing the proposed
third project.
Special Account
4.08      Because the Government may have difficulty in prefinancing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA credit, a Special Account of US$250,000,
corresponding to about four months of expenditures financed by the IDA credit,
would be established for the local purchase of building materials, spare
parts, equipment and project operating costs eligible for IDA credit finan-
cing. The Government would open an account for this purpose in a local
financial institution acceptable to IDA, to be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, and IDA would replenish the account upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the Special Account for allowable expendi-
tures. Should there be any payments made from the Special Account that are
not acceptable to IDA, the Government would be responsible for replenishing
the fund in the corresponding amount. In addition, the Government would
deposit Le 100,000 in a separate Project Fund to prefinance the local contri-
bution to project investment costs. This fund would be replenished quarterly
from the Government budget. The Project Director would be responsible for the
management of the Special Account and the Project Fund. As conditions of
effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government should: (a) establish a
Special Account in a local financial institution; and (b) submit evidence to
IDA that Le 100,000 had been deposited in the IDA/Project Unit account as a
Project Fund for financing the local contribution to the project investment
costs.
Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.09      The project would finance 1,174 staffmonths of specialist services,
of which 125 staffmonths are expected to be provided by expatriate specialists
(para. 3.02 and Annexes 12 and 13). The Government gave assurances during



- 29 -
negotiations that the services of internationally recruited staff and con-
sultants would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and that
all specialists and consultants employed under the project would have qualifi-
cations, experience, and terms and conditions of service acceptable to IDA.
4.10      The project would provide 90 staffmonths of fellowships for the
training of local staff (Annex 14). During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that the fellowships would be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs acceptable to IDA.
Sites
4.11      Sites for the staff houses and the primary schools would be located
in villages selected by the Government according to mutually agreed criteria
(para. 2.08). A suitable site has been selected for the Freetown Teachers
College. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it would take all action necessary to ascertain that land would be available
for the construction and operation of all facilities included in the project.
Procurement
4.12      Works.  Civil works for the FTC valued at US$1.6 million and fur-
niture and equipment valued at US$0.4 million, to be financed by the IDA
credit, would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA's guidelines. Domestic contractors would be given a
preference of 7.5% in the evaluation of bids for civil works.
4.13      Goods.  Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or the total applicable customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Items
of furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$50,000 equivalent, or which are not suitable for international competitive
bidding, would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding pro-
cedures, which were found at appraisal to be acceptable to IDA. Items below
US$15,000 equivalent, for which potential suppliers are limited, would be
procured by inviting quotations from at least three reliable suppliers whenever
possible. The total value of items procured by both of these methods would
not exceed US$500,000. Textbooks valued at $0.9 million would be procured in
accordance with ODA's procedures (paras. 2.22 and 4.02). In-country trans-
portation of textbooks valued at US$100,000 would be carried out by private
local firms.
4.14      Primary Schools.  Civil works, valued at IJS$9.4 million, for the
primary school and staff housing program (para. 2.04)--all comprising small,
widely dispersed buildings--are not likely to interest foreign bidders and
would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures which have been
reviewed and found acceptable to IDA. Building materials, including materials



- 30 -
provided to small contractors, valued at US$1.0 million and to be purchased in
lots of less than US$50,000, and furniture and equipment totalling an estimated
US$1.2 million, to be purchased over a four-year period and delivered to the
widely dispersed project sites would be procured either by inviting quotations
or through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
Contract Review
4.15      We expect from 50 to 70 contracts in the estimated US$11.0 million
civil works category of the project. With a threshold of US$200,000 for prior
Bank review of procurement documentation, about 40% of the total number of
packages would cover about 90% of the value contracted. For goods, we expect
between 40 and 60 contracts to make up the estimated US$3.0 million of furni-
ture and equipment to be procured under the project. With a threshold of
$50,000 for prior Bank review of procurement documentation, about 15% of
packages would cover about 60% of the value of the contracts. The remaining
60% of the civil works contract and 8% of the goods contracts would be subject
to random review by IDA after award of the contract.
Disbursements
4.16      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
project items indicated in para. 3.06, as follows:
(a) 90% of total civil works expenditures - US$11,000,000;
(b) 95% of total expenditures for professional fees - US$300,000;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported furniture and
equipment, spare parts and building materials, and 90% of local
expenditures for items purchased locally - US$2,100,000;
(d) expenditures for specialist services:
(i)  100% for expatriate services              US$1,000,000
(ii)  70% for local services                    US$  500,000
(e)  100% of total expenditures for the training of local personnel -
IJS$350,000;
(f)  65% of total expenditures for operating costs - USS800,000;
(g)  Initial disbursement for the Special Account - US$250,000; and
(h) US$3,700,000 would be unallocated.
4.17      Disbursements have been estimated on the basis of the regional
profile for education projects in West Africa. This profile has been shortened
by about half a year to take account of the advanced stage of project prepara-
tion (para. 4.01), and previous implementation experience in Sierra Leone.



- 31 -
4.18      All disbursemencs from the credit account would be fully documented
except for the workshops conducted in Sierra Leone under category (e) and for
operating costs under category (f). Both would be disbursed against certified
statements of expenditure, with the documentation not submitted to IDA but
held by the Project Unit for review by IDA supervision missions or for auditing
of project accounts. These expenditures would be in local currency and
disbursement would be made only to reimburse the Government. Disbursement
against certified statements of expenditure is the only reasonable method to
disburse against categories (e) and (f), since the expenditures would be small
and numerous and most of them would be made under Government financial
procedures.
Accounts and Audits
4.19      The Project Unit would establish accounts for the project, in
accordance with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expen-
ditures. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that: (a) all
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the
project accounts and the audit report would be submitted to IDA for review and
comments within six months after the close of each fiscal year; and (c) the
accounts and the audit report would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA
should reasonably request, including a review of the operation of the Special
Account and the Project Fund and a separate opinion whether the expenditures
withdrawn from the credit on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided. The IDA credit would
finance the audit fees.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      The Project Director would submit quarterly progress reports to
IDA. The Government gave assurances during negotiations that the Project
Director would submit: (a) quarterly progress reports to IDA; and (b) within
six months of the project's closing date, a final report on implementation
experience and project achievements. As noted in para. 2.38, the Institute of
Education would coordinate the evaluation studies relating to the project and
would also assist in preparing the project completion report.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Educational Benefits
5.01      The project would have both short-term and long-term educational
effects on the development of the primary school system. The short-term
effects would be important in terms of: (a) better access to primary school
places in rural areas through the provision of about 500 new classrooms; (b)
recruitment of better qualified teachers to the most remote primary schools
through the provision of about 66 staff houses; and (c) an improved learning
environment in the primary schools through the supply of about one million
textbooks and 125,000 teachers' guides. Potentially, long-term effects could



- 32 -
be even more important, since the project aims at starting to develop an
institutional framework for the expansion and quality improvement of the
primary school system through: (a) strengthening the educational planning
capacity of the Ministry of Education; (b) developing the evaluation capacity
of the Institute of Education; (c) preparing the basis for development of a
Sierra Leonean textbook service; and (d) developing appropriate school building
and furniture designs for use by local communities in their school construction
schemes.
Risks
5.02      The project might face three important risks.  First, the Project
Unit has had no experience in coordinating and monitoring the construction
of such a large number of primary schools in remote areas, and the number of
local contractors with competent personnel and appropriate equipment is
limited. These issues have been addressed by the implementation of a pilot
primary school construction scheme (paras. 2.09 and 4.01) and by the strength-
ening of the Project Unit supervisory staff (para. 2.39). Second, the distri-
bution of about one million textbooks and 125,000 teachers' guides from the
Tower Hill central book warehouse in Freetown to about 1,200 primary schools
throughout the country poses a risk. The textbook component has therefore
been carefully designed to take account of this risk by providing (a) con-
sultant services specialized in textbook storage and distribution, as well
as training for support staff (paras. 2.27 and 2.28); and (b) operating
funds for the transport and distribution of textbooks by private enterprises
(para. 2.24). Third, strengthening of the Planning Unit may encounter
difficulties, as did similar attempts by the Ministry of Education under the
Second Education Project, mainly because of the difficulty in recruiting and
retaining qualified staff (para. 1.25). The performance of the Planning
Unit has improved, however, since it was strengthened in 1981 with an educa-
tional planning adviser, with financing under the Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 970-SL). As the capacity for educational planning is a crucial factor in
the development of the educational system, the project would contribute to the
efforts to enhance the efficiency of the Planning Unit by financing fellow-
ships for staff training abroad (paras. 2.35 and 4.10). The Government's
discussions with the UNDP on the pervasive weaknesses in public administration
and the civil service, and proposed UNDP assistance, should enhance these
efforts to improve Planning Unit efficiency.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) a plan would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1983 for review and
comments regarding the execution of measures to improve the use of
resources available for primary education, specifically (i) a
reduction in the duration of primary education from seven to six
years for all classes entering the first grade in the 1984-85 school
year, (ii) gradually increasing the class sizes in the school system
by increasing the teacher/pupil ratio starting with 35:1 in 1982-83



- 33 -
and ending with 45:1 not later than the 1991-92 school year and the
annual issuance by the Borrower to the employing authorities of a
circular reflecting the annual incremental increase in the student/
teacher ratio for purposes of increasing salary grants provided to
the schools by the Borrower. A report would be submitted to IDA by
December 31, 1985, for review of the progress in implementation of
the above measures (paras. 1.38, 3.09, 3.10, and 3.11);
(b) a list of all proposed sites for the primary school and staff
housing construction program would be submitted to IDA for review
and approval by December 31, 1983 (para. 2.08);
(c) all studies financed under the project wouldd be carried out in
accordance with research designs acceptable to IDA (paras. 2.18 and
2.38);
(d) the teacher training study, the textbook use study, and the textbook
impact study would be submitted to IDA for review and comments before
December 31, 1986 (paras. 2.18 and 2.38);
(e) the task force for implementation of the textbook component would be
established and an advisory committee of members with appropriate
qualifications would be appointed not later than August 31, 1983
(para. 2.25);
(f) the study of the organizational, legal and financial frameworks for
a national textbook service and the relevant draft legal documents
would be submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than
June 30, 1985, and the textbook service would be established by
June 30, 1986 (para. 2.28);
(g) final programs and cost estimates for each series of workshops
for the training of administrative and educational staff would be
submitted to IDA before August 31 of each year for review and
approval (para. 2.32);
(h) detailed plans for the use of travel funds for the forthcoming
school year and a report on the use of those funds during the
preceding school year would be prepared by the Ministry of Education
before the start of each year and submitted to IDA for review (para.
2.33);
(i) a plan to strengthen the Planning Unit would be submitted to IDA for
review and comments not later than December 31, 1983, and implemen-
tation of the plan would start not later than July 1, 1985; and
fellowships in educational planning would be awarded to staff
appointed to established positions in the Planning Unit (paras.
2.34-2.35).
(j) it would make adequate provisions in its recurrent budget to cover
the incremental recurrent costs of the institutions included in
the project, and adequately staff the project institutions (para.
3.06);



- 34 -
(k)  following completion of the project, it would continue to make
adequate provision in the recurrent budget to meet the recurrent
costs of the institutions supported under the project (para 3.08);
(1)  the services of internationally recruited staff and consultants
would be procured in accordance with IDA's guidelines, and all
specialists and consultants employed under the project would have
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of service
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.09);
(m)  the fellowships would be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs acceptable to IDA (para. 4.10);
(n)  it would take all action necessary to ascertain that land will be
available for the construction and operation of all facilities
included in the project (para. 4.11);
(o)  (i) all accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA, (ii) the project accounts and the audit report would be
submitted to IDA for review and comments within six months after
the close of each fiscal year, and (iii) the accounts and the audit
report would be of such scope and in such detail as IDA should
reasonably request, including a review of the operation of the
Special Account and the Project Fund and a separate opinion whether
the expenditures withdrawn from the credit on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purposes for which they
were provided (para. 4.19); and
(p)  quarterly progress reports and a final report on the implementation
experience and achievements of the project would be submitted to IDA
within six months of completion of the project (para. 4.20).
6.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit, the Government
should (a) establish a Special Account under terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, for the local purchase of building materials, spare parts and equip-
ment; and (b) submit evidence to IDA that Le 100,000 has been deposited in
the IDA/Project Unit account as a Project Fund for financing the local
contribution to the project investment costs (para. 4.08).
6.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of SDR 18.5 million
(US$20.0 million) to the Government of the Republic of Sierra Leone (para.
3.06).



____         00          0          0      0 00   0 0.  000.                         0   0
00 00          C       .0 C     00000  00 C 00.0.0.00    OCCO .0  COCOOC
0,4 In    000000  00000000000 0 0.-0000  000000  OOOOoOOOOCO  0  OoOoOo 00000000 CCC CC
0 Cooo0oo.- C 00000 0C0C.-O0  00000CI lOo'0 01200CC  0  CCOOOO 00000000000 02
o         oo 1-.o.. .-  00000.0   -.200200000 - 000,-0  .200001 Io.-.oOOO 000-0o1100.--I00 01000000001000 102
-z <002200                     I                                  01 122120210
10      0         CO           I .OC     I C   C     010.0   1.0.01    CC    I
0000  0Cl02O00C 0CC I 0002000  COOI 000001,000I0 0000000010
C                                 0              00 0        00        0  0  000
C                               0 0           0  00 0    0  00        000000  0  00   00
0          00       00       011 IC C  0    010 I ICC 0 0  0 0CC    000C  C I CCCOO  CC   CC
0,4    0   000000  OflOCO 0000001000000C0  0010 I I OCCOOCOIOC C000.0000002I0C000020 CC000000
0.0o.I.I -.  0000 0o002020Io0-2o0 I I I o0020   o.-20   ooo.000oI00200C00000 CCO
0001-0
1-C
02011-C
010   0  0  0      0    I      IC   OC      lOll    I   I  10  I    0I0'I   I    00   10   II
C0>..00' .-.  000o,CC  00CC I 20000IC I 00CoooOO  00' 1010100.0000' 0000  00 I I '001.0201000.01 OCOOI I I
OCOCOO 2   0000,0 C  COOC 100020 I 00.020020  00 I 1010100000010002  oCO 'CI I 0011 CCC I CCOO 100001 I
0C0           --
1-1-  0CC    0,                                      a
00I0140 o'   0 0Cc,  CoO 00000-00000  0'C   0    0 0    0  C            CO  C    0    I, 0.
OCOCOIO 0  I 'I ...CC  0 CCC 00 000  I 0                                       I 10000
00.CiC00C000i0000i100  021 '010CC 1001 COO   ii0iC0I CII I00IZ002I I
O CC 0 0 0
CC 0                             0          0 0,000   0   0 00       00  0   o0 0   0
00 C        I 0          C .0 IC C  0      00 .OCCC   C 01.0 CC    OOOC  CI  CC C  CC   C
...  2l000  2002 0000000100020000  COOOC C0000000210000  oOoOOOoO 01.000022000000000
00 1202  0000000CC 00 100000000  00C00000000000 10000  .-.000 00002 1000000 0000 00 000
CCC           0         II      I I 0        0111101    I 0 III      0111   II   0.   I   II
CC0.4  ,.  OCOoCo  0001 10000001 10002000  0011 I IOICCOIOCI 1100  0001 11.0001101100000 IOCO II
In       .400CC C   000000  OCCI IOCOOOCI CCC COCO  0011 I 1010001001 1100  0001 I 10001 101 10000010001 I
0   0   0           0  0  000 0
0         C'                          0    000              00   0   0  0        00  0  000 0  00   00
C         0.-I       0000    01<    C  0 ICOCCOC.      01011CC   C  ICc C    000C  C  CCC C  CC   CC
C         <.4   0'  0.00.000  00000000000 IC-C 000000010 I I 00000000 10000  oOOOOo 000100000000000000.0
CoOl 0   000000  OOOOOOCOCOO 10000000 0001011000C0001000    0000000021 COCO0000COCCOOO
20CC..,                                                             2  In 212              22
0 0       o2
0   <0          t  0'        0
0   14  2       0    C    CC.0.OC    C   I  C  C IC   CC  CC
0         CO 0'0 0'   I 00000  00 I 00000000 I 00000000  C I I I IC I C  C I C I CCC  IC  I IC  CC
C 0       .40000 C   10000 000122000000100C00200  21101 '0100000010001  000CC I 20C020 I 100000000000
C 14      CC   0'   I                                 2112112100022  12221  00000 ICOOCOCI I 0C000000000
.zI0't
oC     10  I        0            C       0  1111010  0   0  I   10  0   0 I   I  I I  II   0  I  II
020     101000000.00000020  .            0011 I '.0100000010120  020101001 '.0011.00001000011
01-0    101 0112  202 .220..0 220 .22000    01111  1c.120.,,I0 101 00  220212100 I 12011 200120201 I
0CI4    101        C         0    C       01111010  0 01 10   0 0111  II  II 0  10   II
C         10001-C 0'  101020  CCC 00000000000000C00  20 1111010C000010 InC  2C21 I 1001 120110000100001 I
o         COCOO 0    01002000002002020200200000011110100000010102   0001 I 1001 10 I I o0Ol2.2O I I
14        00C
014C,40    10  I               0    C       0 111110   0   0 I   10  0   0 I   I  I I  II   0  10  I
00040      101002  00000220000000C00000  0011 I Cl 000000 ICIC2  0.001210011001 IOOOCIOOOOI I
C000C     101 000  OOOCOOOOOOCOOCOOOOOC  00 111101 00000010100  000101001 IOCI ICCOOIOOCO I I
000      0                                 0 0         0    0              0 000   0  0
00         OC            0      OOCOOCC   C 0  COO    00 C   0 CCCOC 0CC  CCC
.4            C00200  00000 0000000 000..00   00.000000 OCOOCCCC0O  00200 OOOOOC2COOOOOOCOOOOO
00000 CC '..
00000.400     000000  0000202022202100C0200C020 OCO IOO2CCOOCCO  0000.000220.000000000200 COO
1-000C.OCC   22  22  022002020022002100.0020  02000  2102022 0202  2200 200220020 2222022  2
COO                                         00                    0                 0
CCC               0                        00000 C    0   00    00 0       00000  00  0
-     00  0   CC0 COO.0    0 0  00   OOOCOCO0O  C 00 COO    00 C   OCCOCOC  CCO C 0
CCC 0'  OOC 00000000000000000o0100.-.  00,000000CC .000020 000  000000000..00020000000 COO.,.
00< 0
01-14 o.  COOOO 0  COCOOOOOOCOOOOOO COO  COOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOCO  00000000 OOCOOOOOCOOOOOOOO
C  C   C   C C CCCCIIC  COCC  C         CC CC               CC             C
C        000020  OOOOOOOOOOOOOCO 00000  0000000000000000000  000000001 COOCOOCOOC 000000
0< 0'    000000  OOC COO200 000000 COOC 000000000000000020000200000 C2100000002 00000200
CC0'0 2   0 COOCO  00002000000020C00000  0002C000000020I000002  00C0002 0102CC 000202020000
000   0                      .                 -   ,
0000 ...  OOOOCO           02 2                0   2             0002222222    22222000
0002       02 0                                                 0
0140'0' 0
CC  C   C C C   CCCC C  C CC  C           C CC        C      CC  C   C   CC
.0' COOOOO 0000000020000 000C000 00000 C COOOOOCOCOOO C 000000000000 OOOCCOCOOCOO0
*00.0.
0,40    000000  OOO020000000000 00000000020 02000C2000000 20 OOOCOCOOOOOC 00000020C0200
0.4o' 2   20C2       02      CO  220             2      0      <0   220           C   02  2
Coo 2
Zo 14
CO                                                             C
20      000000  00000000000000000002  0.OOCCOOCOOOOOOOOOOC CCOCOOCOOOCOOCCCOOCC000000
<0     C 00000  OOOCOoOoOCOoOCOOOOC 00000000000000000000 1-000000000000000000000000
0                                                      0
C                                                      C                        02
O       0                       0
0       0                       14                     0          C             C
0    000  0                     0          C           12           o           C
12          12                    0       000
02  0,4  0   20  14   0   4                            <      <12  12  1212  0  0   C   0   12
000000 00.,4C00   12  0          140 12 0.4  C 12oo<  o0 OCCO  <0
404<                                                                       0 0 <CC
.400<000 000000.OCCC2004 200000 00CC 0000000000012 0 00 1200.COO OC<CO0oO 1400000
0000000 000000 000000' -100 00 0 0    0 0 2 C 02                  2040< <140<00 0<0
CC 000 OCOC 002000000000000000 C 00.000000 OCOOCCO 000 00 000,400<00CC CCC 0000<0000
0000CC 00C0020000,4000 00<0<200 0000.00000200,400000CC  1-0 0,400,40000 <2C0 1<14000000
0000000 OCoCoC 000<000000<14000 000.000<0 0000<2000CC 00 <000000014,40,4<0< CoO <COOC
000000000014CC  4000,00000 COCOC 301414141400000,40,00000CC 40 00001414141400000000 0 OCCCCOC



- 36 -
Asne 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                               Page 2 of 2
MARCH 17, 1983
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                       COMPLETION             RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION        ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                 UNIT COST  PROCRESSION SECONDARY                HIGHER
GNP PER               AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY        PRIMARY  PRIMARY      RATE FROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE             RATIO   SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO           STUDENTS  RATI0
YEAR MILLS. (US0)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (2)    (NET)   CYCLE                 PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)         PER        (GROSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  HI   (1976)    (x)               (2)      TEACHER  CNP/CAPITA        (x)         (1)    TEACHER       Cl)
(1)     (2)         (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)       (8)         (9)        (10)         (11)         (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA               79   901.8       260      3.3          6.6        29   34   27       66        93         64         27         8.0          83           47        19        2.80
INDONESIA           81   142.9       370     3.0          gq.1.       66   39   ---    32b         94a       68          34         1.4          44           23x       16        2.008
KOREA               82    39.3b  1.636b    7.7W           20.8        34   34   31       96        99        98          43        19.0          98           84        38       21.80
MALAYSIA            80    14.2   1 4606        .2         22.0        39   32   13       606       96x        94         28        ---           84           65        27        3.70
PAPUA N.G.          79      2.9      760     5,4W         16,4W       ---  ---  ---    --          58X       73          31         1.1          ---          64b0      23       ---
PHILIPPINES         79    48.3b    695b    2.8H           14.0        64   36A-----    75b         84        65          31         7.1          89           55        36       21.00
SINGAPORE           80      2.4   4,420      2.7           6.7        39   40   16       83        92        82          31         8.8          96           55        22        8.00
SOLOMON ISL.        80      0.2      460     4.2P,        10.08       41   34   20       ---       60        80          26        ---           35           18        ---      ---
THAILAND            80    47.3b    723b    3.4            20.9        59   15   13       86b       96        ---         17         9.3          59           58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH          79    92.3b       90      I.1P        10.18Y      51   17   20       22b       63Y       ---         53         5.6          ---          14        23        1.43
INDIA               77   659.6       210     2.9Y          9.9W       ---  ---  --      36        790       ---        41        ---            ---         28X       ---       8.300y
NEPAL               80    14.3b    140b    2.4             9.9        27   18   36       19        88X       30          380       ---           64           148       20a       2.08"Y
PAKICSTAN           79    79.7       270     2.00y         5.1Y       39   26   27       24        060       805         48         6.5          51          20"        17        6.00
E0ROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN         77    15.5       ---      1.7          3.7        47   19   15       12        31by      69          37b       ---           62            8        22bY      1.00Y
ALGERIA             79    18.3   1,770        3.88        12.3        34a  268  210    35          83Y       45a         37         7.0?         55s          29Y       26        3.70Y
EGYPT               81    43.0b    580b    3.18w           4.5        31a  358  268    44          N4O       808         34         9.8a         83"         43         19       15.008
GREECE              76      9.3   4,140      2.6w         10.6b       37   26   21        ---      97by 00      -        29b        6.2?          ---         79b0      27by    17.80bY
IRAN                79    36.9       ---     5.70y        14.18y      ---5                       1 ---  0180  _--      32a        ---           ---         4485      24a       4.908Y
IRAQ                79    12.6   2,710       4.3ay         6.9gy     ---  ---  ---    --         100Y       ---        28        ---            ---         45Y8      29"       9.30-Y
IRELAND            81      3,4b  4 480       6.30Y        11.87Y      ---  ---  ---    98          93        94         29        ---            98          81        14       11.00
JORDAN              81      2.2b  1,420b    4.90          10.2        19   44   18       70b      1080       85          32         7.2          91          82X       25        19.00
LEBANON             79      2.3      ---      ---         18.6      Y ---   ---  ---    --       96x        ---        19        ---           ---         46x       ---      27.808Y
MOROCCO             80    19.5       740     6,3t,        17.58       36   44   20       28        568y      35          39        19.7          40         275         21        4.50
OMAN                79      0.9   3,530      3.7v5y        4,98y      ---  ---  ---    ---         450y      ---         23a       ---           ---           70        9       ---
PORTUGAL            79      9.8b  2,060      3.6          22.2        50   28   11       78        97        20          190       12.8          88a         45X        178       8.30x
ROMANIA             78    22.1   2,100       3.9by         6.2Y       ---  ---  ---    98         106b3 ---             23b        ---           98          g4b0      22b       10.60bY
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y         16.8Y       __986                                              79                      ---         67--      ---      24.10by
SYRIA               78      8.6   1,170      4.4P         10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80         35b       ---            68          4iby      2ib      12.60
TUNISIA             79      6.4   1,130      7.0P         19.0        42   39   18       62b      100"       80          39b       12.8          30          30"        30       6.00
TURKEY              79      4.3   1,380       3.6avy      18.6        ---  ---  ---    60         1050        ---        308       ---           ---         41"       27         7.078y
YEMEN A.R.          80      6.8      420      5,0pw       12.0        94    7    7       21b       37         12"        38Y       67.0          85            3        20        1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.        80      1.9      424      6.0         10.5        63   14    8       40b       65        53          24        22.4          81          22         16        2.50
SYHBOLS:                                                             FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                                 A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
...  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                       B = DATUM MORE RECENT THAN RASE YEAR
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                                N - CURRENT PRICES
A  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                       P - GDP
*o  COMBINED WITH PRIMARY                                             Q - INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
808  COMBINED WITH HIGU ER                                             R - CENTRAL GOVERNEMNT ONLY
S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T M MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
* - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Columns 1 and 2:  World Bank Atlas or IBRD missions.
Columns 3 to 14:  IBRD missions, Goveroent sourcet  and/or Unesco Statitical Yearbook.
Comparative Education Data are useful in the evaluation of various education aystean and analysis of relstive stages of educational development between various
countries.  However, on the basin of the present data, croon-national comparioso  should be approached vith great caution.  DOto presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Rahk missions from government  nurcesI the re..aisder are staff estimates or data frnn Unesco.  Efforts have beee made to standardioe
definitions and, withia linits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, nuch data are atill inperfect in several respects and the Bank is working to
improve them progres-ively on the occasion of its operational work. On the use of these dsta, the fo1lowing qualifications should be kept in mind:
(1)  'Education  as defined in the table includen all education and training, both formal and non-fornal.
(2)  'Primary" education refers to edscatlon at the firnt level and  secondary  education refers to all edocation at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., gesecal, technical, agricultural).
(3)   Literacy rates' (col. 6) are often obtained from country ce.nssen.  In many countries they are only appronimatioss and it is doubtful that any uniform
definition of "literate- has been followed consistently.
(4) 'Public expenditure in education" (cola. 4 and 5) refers to all cspital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quasi-public
agencies.
(5)   EsrolL.ent ratios" (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-tine in the appropriate school,
public and private by level.  They are often subject to o side margin of errnr in the developing countries owing to variations in the accuracy of basic
data (i.e., age-specific population and enrollnentn). Enrollment figorer frequently are higher than the number of ntudantn actually in school. Over-aged
students honme inclusion is indicated by footnotes. also can inflate the ratims.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT ESTIMATES,1974
('000)
Freetown                Sierra Leone
M       F        T        M        F       T
Total Population              146      130     276    1359    1376    2735
Population 12 years of age
and over                    100       82     182      864      883    1747
Labor force 1/                 80       28     108      770      568    1338
% of total population       54.7    40.0    47.8   56.6    41.5    48.9
Modern private sector          29        7       36      57        7       64
(> 6 employees)
Government                     16        4      20       43        7       50
Agriculture                     3        2        5     562      475    1010
Informal sector                27       15      42       95       78     173
Registered unemployed           5       -         5      40        1       41
1/ Including two-thirds of housewives between ages 12 and 45 in rural
areas.
Source: Census data and 1978 economic mission estimates.



-38--                                        ANNEX 3
SIERRA LEONE
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION 1981/82
PRIMARY EDUCATION                                 SECONDARY EDUCATION                                          SIXTH FORM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                               5e
University of Sierra Leone
*        Selective Entrance Examination                                                                                          3     HTC   lagric. ed.)
*        West African Examination Council (WAEC) 'O' Level
O        'A' Level
B        Bachelor of Arts/Science/Engineering
DE       Diploma in Education (Teachers for upper forms)
HD       Honours' Degree                                                                                    Teacher Colleges
HTC      Higher Teachers' Certificate (Teachers for lower froms and                                                             _
specialists in agriculture education, home economics, etc.) _l-0                                                     H     T
HTD      Higher Technicians' Diploma
TC       Teachers Certificate (primary school teachers)                                                                         TC
OTD      Ordinary Technicians' Diploma
CA       Certificate in Agriculture
CHE      Certificate in Home Economics
CC       Crafts Certificate
Note: 1. F.T.I. FreetownTechnical Institue. F.T.I.also offersfour-year                                      Technical Institute (F.T.01
part-time trade courses with entry after Form 3m-
2. These courses are offered at Njaia University College, U.S.L.
_Extension Workers' Training2
<  {}                ~~~CA
Trade Schools
AGE 5+       6       7      8       9      10     11+        12+    13     14          15        16+             17+        16      19        20+       21+
l      l                                     1 I               1 l  I                       I l  l  l  l  l
Source: Ministry of Education
World Bank-23837



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
POPULATION OF SIERRA LEONE BY TOWN SIZE SHOWING
MALE/FEMALE RATIO - 1974 CENSUS FIGURES
BELOW             2,000 -         5,000 -         20,000 -       100,000
2,000             5,000    %   20,000    %   100,000   %    & Above  %            TOTAL       %
TOTAL  1,977,540  72.3  177,711  6.3  130,205  4.8 173,456   6.3  276,247  10.1  2,735,159  100.0
MALE      961,228  70.7   90,766  6.7   69,095  5.1  92,320   6.8  145,912  10.7  1,359,321  100.0
!FEMALE 1,016,312  73.9   86,945  6.3   61,110  4.4  81,136   5.9  130,335   9.5  1,375,838  100.0
MALE/
FEMALE
RATIO   94.5/100          104/100         113/100       114/100          112/100             99/100
Source: Central Statistics Office, Freetown



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
COMPARISON OF RECURRENT COSTS PER STUDENT IN SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES
Annual Recurrent Costs per Student
in US dollars            as percentage of GNP per Capita
GNP per       Primary          Secondary          Primary             Secondary
COUNTRY                   YEAR       capita        Education        General             Education          General
Education                             Education
Sierra Leone                      1980       270              68                 216               251/              80/
Mauritania                        1978        270            142                 797                52               295
Ivory Coast                       1976       610             120                1040               20                170
Senegal                           1976       420             117                 260               28                 62        p
Benin                             1977       200              41                  92               20                 46
Central African Republic          1977        250             44                 117               18                 47
Upper Volta                       1977        118             62                 440                52               373
Niger                             1976        190             60                 310                32               163
Togo                              1980        421             31                 184                 7                44
Source: World Bank Missions
1/ Estimates
U'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT ESTIMATES MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 1976-1982
MINISTRY OR DEPARTMENT                 1976/77                               1977/78                              1980/81                                1981/82
TOTAL       P.E.         O.C.        TOTAL         P.E.         O.C.      TOTAL        P.E.         O.C.       TOTAL          P.E.          O.C.
Ministry of Education   3,769,932    292,851   3,477,081   3,983,361    296,673   3,686,608   4,626,812   396,975    4,229,837   5,232,854    495,609                4,737,245
Primary Education        6,722,845    197,861   6,524,984   7,439,228    196,990   7,242,238  16,251,424   237,867   16,013,557  19,951,814    298,334    19,653,480
Secondary Education      6,182,174  1,008,589   5,173,585   6,558,166  1,093,012   5,465,154  10,479,863 1,349,556    9,130,307  14,719,997  2,028,105    12,691,892
Teacher Education            25,506     22,823        2,683       22,757      19,892        2,885       32,665    28,865          3,800       41,505      36,705          4,800
Technical Education        431,053    246,803       184,250      477,276    294,436       182,840      844,060   377,519       466,541   1,089,299    491,200           598,099
Teaching Aids               66,953      48,623       18,325       58,956      39,456       19,500       86,266    67,366         18,900      113,807     85,504          28,303
Education Subsidies      5,249,357        -       5,249,357   5,983,632         -       5,983,632   8,330,266        -       8,330,266  10,975,990         -        10,975,990
Planning Unit                50,771     40,621       10,150       50,301      40,351        9,950       80,046    72,096          7,950       98,929     89,729           9,200
Total                   22,498,591  1,858,176  20,640,415  24,573,677  1,980,810  22,592,867  40,731,402  2,530,244  38,201,158  52,224,195   3,525,186   48,699,009
P.E.: Personal Emoluments
O.C.: Other Changes
Source:  Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure Government
of Sierra Leone



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENTS AND TEACHERS IN PRIMARY EDUCATION 1980/81 - 1990/91
TEACHER/  REQUIRED    OUTPUT FROM        ANNUAL                 TEACHERS                TEACHERS
YEAR    ENROLLMENTS    PUPIL        NUMBER OF   TEACHER TRG.    REPLACEMT.                T                                 %
RATIO      TEACHERS    COLLEGES          OF QUALIF.       QUALIFIED  UNQUALI-  QUALIFIED  UNQUALIFIED
_______                                     TEACHERS (3%)                        FIED FIED
80/81      271,331       1:35         7,752         447 1/            119           3,961       3,791          51          49
81/82      287,611       1:36         7,989         469               129           4,289       3,700          54          46
82/83      304,868       1:37         8,240         493               139           4,629       3,611          56          44
83/84      323,160       1:38         8,504         508               150           4,983       3,521          59          41
84/85     342,550        1:39         8,783         500               161           5,351       3,432          61          39
85/86      363,103       1:40         9,078         500               171           5,690       3,388          63          37
86/87     384,889        1:41         9,388         500               181           6,019       3,369          64          36
2'1
87,188-    407,982       1:42         9,714         550               190           6,338       3,776          65          35
88/89      432,461       1:43        10,057         550               201           6,698       3,359          67          33
89/90      458,409       1:44        10,418         550               211           7,047       3,371          67          33
90/91     485,910        1:45        10,798         550               222           7,386       3,412          68    J    32
1/  Actual Output.       2/ First output expected from Freetown Teachers' College in new facilities.
Source:  Ministry of Education and Appraisal Mission.



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRDMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGES
STUDENT CAPACITY AND ENROLLMENTS 1981/82
PLANNED
NAME          STUDENT CAPACITY        ENROLLMENTS   /   YEAR OF STUDY
OF
COLLEGE       DAY      BOARDING           1         2       3       TOTAL
Bo                     300            160       130    140         430
Bunumbu                   180              75       63      61         199                        1
4-'
Makeni                   300             270      135      70         475
Port Loko                   180             60      164    114          338
Freetown       250         -             120       118      84         322
TOTAL        2501        960            685       610    469       1,764
l/ Part time courses.
Note:  The colleges are used above capacity.  Present enrollments will have to be
reduced.
Source: Ministry of Education
Do



- 44 -                          ANNEX 9
SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF TEXTBOOKS AND TEACHERS' GUIDES AMONG SUBJECTS AND GRADES
Grade                      Grade / Number of Books    _
Subject        1                 3         4         5         6
ENGLISH  P    2          3         3         3        3         3          17
T        1         1         1         21-_   21/          2-     9
MATHEM.  P    1          1         1         1         1        1           6
T        1         1         1         1         1         1      6
SCIENCE  P                        1         1         1         1           4
T        1         1         1         1         1         1      6
SOCIAL
STUDIES P                          1        1         1         1           4
T        1         1         1         1         1         1       6
SUB-TOTAL P   3          4        6         6         6         6          31
T       4         4         4         5         5         5     27
TOTAL          7         8        10       11        11        11        58
P : Number of books each pupil will have access to
T : Number of teachers' guides per teacher
1/   One book is a dictionary
Source: The Appraisal mission
March 22, 1982



- 45 -
SIERRA LEONE                                                        ANNEX  10
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Susaro kccount bs P roject Component
(Le. 000)
XEVELOPlENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION   ADMINISTRATION, PLANNING  ND EVhALLATION                               Fhssicai
PRIMARY     TEXTB00                   STRENGTHENING OF EVALUATIGN OF                         Continsencies
PRIMARY  TEACHER  PRODUCTION AND TRAlNING OF   THE PLANNING   THE TEXTBOOK   PROJECT                   -------------
SCHOOLS  TRAINING  DISTRIBUTION   KEY SThFF          OFFICE       INTRODUCTION  HANAGEHENT  Total        7   A.ou It
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL NORKS                          11.724.3  1,B78.0            203.1            -                  -              -          - 13.805.4  10.0 1-380.5
Ph4sical Continsencies                1,172,4    187.8             20.3            -                 -              -           -  1,380.5   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                   3,842.7    351.7             27.3            -                 -              -           -  4,224.8   9.1   384.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       16,742.4  2,407.5            250.8                                                            19,400.7   9.1 1,764.6
Taxes                                 1,339.4    193.4             20.1            -                 -              -           -  1,52.9   9.1   141.2
Foresin Exchange                      5,746.3  1.405.2             88.8            -                 -              -           -  7,240.4   9.1   650.2
B. PROFESSIONAL FEES                       234.2    110.1                -            -                  -             -           -    344.3  10.0    34.4
Phssical ContanHencies                   23.4      11.0               -            -                 -              -           -      34.4   0.0      0.0
Price ContinHewies                       37.1      13.7               -            -                 -              -           -     50,7   9.1       4.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          294.7    134.8                -            -                  -             -           -    429.5   9.1    39.0
Taxes                                    11.8       5.4               -            -                 -              -           -      17.2   9.1      1.6
Foresin Exchange                        115.5      53.1               -            -                 -              -           -    168.6   9.1    15.3
C. FURNITLIRE                            1,426.4    1550.            178.0          1.0                 -              -        20.0  1,780.4  10.0   178.0
Phssical Contioseicies                  142.6      15.5            17.8          0.1                 -              -         2.0    178.0   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                     492.5      31.4            23.9          0.1                 -              -         5,.7    53.7   9.1    50.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES        2,061.6    201.9            219.7          1.2                  -                      27.7  2,212.1   9.1   228.4
Taxes                                    82.5         -               -          0.0                 -              -         1.1     83.6   9.1       7.o
Foreign Exchange                        486.2    191.3            208.4          0.3                 -              -         6.6    892.9   9.1    01.2
D. EGUIPMENT                               150.0    364.5             26.0         52.0              22.8              -       250.0    825.3  10.0    86.5
Phbsical Contingencies                   15.0      36.5             2.6          5.2               2.3              -        25.0     86.5   0.0      0.0
Price Contintencies                      40.3      73.9             1.2          2.3               1.0              -        43.5    162.3   9.1    14.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          205.3    474.9             29.8         59.5              26.1              -       318.5  1,114.1   9.1   101.3
Foreign Exchange                        194.3    450.0             28.3         56.2              24.8              -       301.8  1,025.6   9.1    96.0
E. TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION                          -        -         1,097.2            -                 -              -           -  1,097.2   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                         -         -           223.2            -                 -              -           -    223.2   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               -        -         1,320.4                                                            1,320.4   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchanse                            -         -         1,250.5            -                 -              -           -  1,250.5   0.0      0.0
F. SPECIALIST SERVICES                     180.0      30.1           493.1        111.8             532.0           21.3       662.9  2,034.2   0.0       0.0
Price Continmencies                      25.6       8.1            54.7         15.1             111.3            3.3       115.9    334.0   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          205.6      38.2           547.9        126.9             643.3           24.5       781.0  2,368.2   0.0      0.0
Taxes                                       -         -               -            -                 -              -      253.8    223.8   0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                        185.9      34.7           494.9         64.3             526.7           22.2         7.3  1,336.1   0.0      0.0
G. TRAINING OF LOCAL PERSONNEL                  -        -            38.1        212.2              67.5          120.0           -    438.1   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                         -         -             4.1         31.9               8.0           19.0           -     63.0   0.0      0.0
Sab-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               -        -            42.1        244.4              75.5          139.0           -    501.0   0.0      0.0
Foreign Exehanse                            -         -            31.9            -              71.9          132.4           -    236.1   0.0      0.0
H. OPERATING COSTS                              -        -           490.3        240.0              60.0          236.0    1,100.0  2,126.3   0,0       0.0
Price Continsncies                          -         -            91.4         38.7              11.8           46.8       201.9    390.6   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               -        -           501.7        278.7              71.8          282.8    1,301.9  2,516.9   0.0       0.0
Taxes                                       -         -           232.7            -                 -              -           -    232.7   0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                            -         -           109.8            -              33.2           30.2       152.1    335.2   0.0      0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     13,714.9  2,537.7          2,525.7        617.3             682.3          377.3    2,035.9 27,491.2   7.5 1,679.5
Phssical Contingencies                   1,353.5    250.8             40.7          5.3               2.3              -        27.0  1,679.5   0.0       0.0
Price Continoewcies                      4,441.2    478.9            425.9         88.0             132.1           69.1       367.1  6,002.2   7.6   453.8
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES              19,509.6  3,267.3          2,992.3        710.7             816.7          446.3    2,429.9 30,172.9   7.1 2,133.3
Taxes                                    1,433.A    198.8            252.7          8.8                 -              -       254.9  2,140.1   7.0   150.3
Foreign Exchanae                         6,728.2  2,134.3          2,222.6        121.1             656,5          184.8       467.9 12,512.4   6.8   850.7
II.  INCREMENTAL RECURRENT  COSTS
A. SALARIES  D hLLOWICES                3,000.0    255.0                -            -                 -              -           -  3,255.0   0.0       0.0
Price Continaeecies                    624.0      55.4               -            -                 -              -           -    679.4   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       3.624.0    310.4                -            -                 -              -           -  3,934.4   0.0       0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                       3.000.0    255.0                       -              -                -                  -  3,255.0   0.0       0.0
Price Continsencies                        624.0      55.4               -            -                 -              -           -    679.4   0.0       0.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               3,624.0    310.4                -            -                  -             -           -  3,934.4   0.0       0.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                        16,714.9  2,792.7          2,525.7        617.3             682.3          377.3    2,035.9 25,746.2   6.5 1,679.5
Phlsical Contingencies                    1,353.5    250.8             40.7          5.3               2.3              -        27.0  1,679.5   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                       5,065.2    534.2            425.9         88.0             132.1           69.1       367.1  6,681.5   6.8   453.8
Total MOJECT COSTS                          23,133.6  3,577.7          2,992.3        710.7             816.7          446.3    2,429.9 34,107.2   6.3 2,133.3
z= =======   ====== ==   =     =       ====  == ====  == =   == = === == ===== ===    == ------ == -  ---   -----  -- -   -------= = __ =            =_=  = ===  
Taxes                                     1,433.6    198.8            252.7          0.0                 -              -       254.9  2,140.1   7.0   150.3
Foreign Exchange                          6,728.2  2,134.3          2,222.6        121.1             656.5          184.8       467.9 12,515.4   6.8   850.7
Narch 8, M193  0:59



- 46 -                                                  ANN   U
Sierra Leone - Third Education Project
Financing Plan
(USsOOQa)
Of which
Total Cost            IDA            ODA           Government             Taxes
Development of Primary Education
Civil Works                                   11,045            10,013           149                   883                 883
Professional Fees                                275               264              -                    11                  11
Furniture                                      1,408             1,202           142                     64                  46
Equipment                                        432               411            21
Textbook Production                              878                  -          878
Specialist Services                              563               169           394
Training of Local Personnel                       30                  -            30
Operating Cost                                   392                255             -                   137                  16
Incremental recurrent Cost                     2,604                  -             -                2,604
Base Cost                                       17,627            12,314         1,614                  2,699                 956
Physical Contingencies                           1,316             1,189             31                    96                  96
Price Contingencies                              4,820             3,747            265                  808                  465
Total Contingencies                           6,136              4,936            296                  904                 561
Total Cost                                     23,763             17,250         1,910                 4,603                1,517
Strengthening of Administration,
Planning & Evaluation Capacity
Furniture                                           1                 1             -
Equipment                                          60                60             -
Specialist Services                               532               532             -
Training of Local Personnel                       320               320             -
Operating Cost                                    429               279             -                   150                    -
Incremental Recurrent Cost                          -                 -             -
Base Cost                                         1,342             1,192             -                   150
Physical Contingencies                                 6                 6            -                      -
Price Contingencies                                  231               205            -                     26
Total Contingencies                               237               211             -                    26
Total Cost                                        1,579             1,403             -                   176
Project Management
Furniture                                           16                16            -
Equipment                                          200               200            -
Special Services                                   533               359            -                   174                   174
Operating Cost                                     880               572            -                   308
Base Cost                                          1,629             1,147            -                   482                   174
Physical Contingencies                                21                 21            -
Price Contingencies                                  294               207            -                     87                    31
Total Contingencies                                315               228            -                     87                    31
Total Cost                                         1,944             1,375             -                   569                   205
Total Base Cost                                   20,598            14,653        1,614                 4,331                 1,130
Physical Contingencies                           1,343             1,216           31                     96                    96
Price Contingencies                              5,345             4,159          265                    921                   496
Total Contingencies                              6,688             5,375          296                  1,017                   592
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                27,286             20,028       1,910                  5,348                 1,722



SIERRA LEONE - TIIIRI) EDUCATION PRO.JECT
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVTCES (EXPATRIATE)
CODE  PRJECT COFONENT     POSITION            TILENO. OF                       TOTAL          START OF        ESTIMATED       OIAYF10DECPTN
CODE    PRO.JECT COMPONENT         POSITION            TITI.E          ISPECIALISTS   STAFF-          SERVICES        BASE COST       SUARY OF .OB DESCRTPTTON
MONTHS
_ __-                        _                             ~        I                                   __ ._         Le            _._ ______         ___ _____ __ _._ _
100   Primary Education           100:1        Architect                      1             18             1984         180.000   Development of standard design of primary school
buildings and fuirniture as well as guide lines
for construction uf schools with local meanis.
200   Primary Teacher             200:1        Teacher Training               1             3              1987           30,100   Study of demand for teachers and Efficiency
Training                                Specialist                                                                           and capacity of Lhe teacher trainiing system,
300   Textbook prodtiction                     Task Force:             |               _                                              __ t  
and distribution            300:1       Textbook editor                1              1             1983           10.600   Advice on textbook adaptation to the textbook
lanels (financed by British Council)
300:2       Legal specialist               I             4              1983-85       42-5n0  lender documents and contracts, legal documenits fo,r
I national textbook service.
300:3       Deputy to the Tower            1             9              1983-84        95,600| Design of ware house systems, traininig of stafl.
300:4          M    oanaganner             I             3              1983          31,900   Prepare materials and lecture in courses
300:5-6    Education adminis-             2              3              I98 3         30,000   arranged by IPAM oni topics related to text-
trator    a i-                                                              ,       book uise, registration, etc.
300:7       Manager of distribution        I            24       !      1983-85      240,000    Install and manage the niationiwide book distri-
bution system; Traininig of staff.
300:8       Evaluationl specialist        1              4              1985          42.500    Study of future textboo s! scrvices in Sierra Leon,
400  'Training of adminis-
trative and educa-
tional staff                400:2-5    Consultanits                    1-4           6              1984          63,800    Preparationi of special courses and lecturing
500   Planning Unit               500:1        Education planner        .    I             .4              1983         240.000    School location plantning, preparation of system
for data collection and disseminiation staff
training.
j 500:2        Project Preparation                         24              1986-87    240,000   May he done bv local staff
600   Evaluation                  600:2-3   i Educational research            I or 2        2              1984-85       21,300    Experts in design of eduicational research studies to
methodologist                          t                                            assist with determining research design, sampling
I ___________________________-  .                                                                 - ___________               procedures,  methods  of data analavsis.
125                         1,268,300
TOTALII
Sou _ Appraisal   _ _m_i_ssi_  -                                  i   -        --          -       __                                                                          _
source: Appraisal mission



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES (LOCAL)
CODE       PROJECT COMPONENTS          POSITION              TITLE           SPECIALISTS         TOTAL           SERVICES    ESTIMATED BASE
300    Textbook Production and           300:0       Task force:
Administration                  300:1       Director                        1              66              1983
300:2       Editor                         2              132             1983          183,700
300:3       Counterpart to man-            1              66              1983
ager of distrib.
300:4       Advisory committee                            -               1984           19,300         203,000
400    Training of Administra-           400:1       Lecturer/Coordina-             1               48             1984           40,100
tive and Educational                         tor of Training
Staff                                        Programs
400:2       Lecturer/Consultant            1               12           1984-87           8,000          48,150
500    Planning Unit                     500:1       Consultants                  5-10              78             1983           52,000          52,000
700    Project Management                700:1       Project Director               1               66             1983          110,000
700:2       Deputy Project                 1               66             1983           82,500
Director
700:3       Senior Architect               1              66              1983           93,500
700:4       Architect                      1              66              1983           66,000
700:5       Senior Accountant              1              66              1983          66,000
700:6       Accountant                     1              66              1983           49,500
700:7       Senior Clerk of                1              66              1983          49,500
Works
700:8       Clerk of Works               2-4             228              1983          142,500
700:9       Auditor                        1                5             1984            6,400         665,900
TOTAL                                                                             1097                           969,000          969,000
Source:  Appraisal Mission



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF FELLOWSHIPS
CODE PROJECT COMPONENTS         POSITION/                                NO. OF       TOTAL        STARTING  ESTIMATED               COMMENTS
FIELD OF STUDY      ~FELLOWS      STAFF-         DATE       COST
.________________      _ _                MONTHS                     Le
300   Textbook production        300:1      Publishing processes            1            8            1984        16,000     Training in Publishing Processes
and administration        300:2       Editorial Training              1           2            1984         4,000      Training in Editorial Techniques
300:3-4    Distribution Training           2            5           1984        10,000      Training in distribution of printing
materials (overseas and/or Africa)
500   Planning Unit              500:1       Educational Planning           3           27            1984       67,500      Educational Planning; School Location
Planning; Educational Statistics
600   Evaluation                 600:1      Educational Research          1-2          48             1984       120,000     Training and Research Methods and
and/or evaluation                                                               Evaluation
.  .                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
TOTAL                                                                     90                       217,500                                                                   X
Source: Appraisal Mission



- 50 -                           ANNEX 15
SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA CREDIT ACCOUNT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS CUS$tO00)
FISCAL YEAR           QUARTER      DISBURSEMENTS    ACCUMULATED       UNDISBURSED
DISBURSEMENTS   BALANCE
1983
4              720                720         19,280
1984                   1              840              1,560         18,440
2               860            2,420          17,580
3             1,000            3,420          16,580
4             1,020            4,440          15,560
1985                  1              1,040            5,480          14,520
2             1,120             6,600         13,400
3             1,260             7,860         12,140
4             1,260             9,120         10,880
1986                  1              1,220           10,340           9,660
2             1,220            11,560          8,440
3             1,180           12,740           7,260
4             1,160            13,900          6,100
1987                   1            1,040             14,940          5,060
2            1,040            15,980           4,020
3              820             16,800           3,200
4              800            17,600           2,400
1988                   1              600             18,200          1,800
2              580            18,780           1,220
3              520            19,300             700
4              400            19,700             300
1989                   1              300            20,000               0



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Civil Works/Equipment/         Years        1982              1983               1984              1985              1986             1987
Quarters    1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2  3   4          1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
NEGOTIATION
EFFECTIVENESS
PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
Pilot School Construct. (Cr. 573-SL)
NO. I PHASE
Tender Preparation (approved)
Tendering
Bid Evaluation/Awarding
Construction 1st halfl//Deliveryzl
Construction 2nd half!J/Delivery2_
NO. II PHASE
School List Preparation
School List Approved
Tender Preparation
Approval                                                                 _II
Tendering
Bid Evaluation/Awarding
Construction 1st halfi//Delivery2/
Construction 2nd half!J/Delivery2_
FREETOWN TEACHERS COLLEGE
Final Drawings/Lists/_
Approval
Tender Documents' Preparation
Approval
Tendering (ICB)
Bid Evaluation/Awarding                                          _
Approval
Construction
Note: 1J About 125 Classrooms.
2J Teaching Equipment.
Source: Appraisal Mission                                                                                                     World Bank-24015



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - BOOK PROVISION
1982                1983                 1984                1985                 1986
1    2   3    4    1   2   3    4    1   2   3    4    1   2    3    4    1'    2    3    4
APPOINTMENT TASS FORCE DIRECTOR                               IIIIIIIIIIIIIII0
PREPARAT. FOR TENDERING
PRE-QUALIFICATION TENDERS
SHORT LIST
FINAL TENDERS                                                                                                                                                 I
TASK FORCE ESTABLISHED                                         _
FINAL AWARDS                                                       m
ADAPTATION/FINAL COPY                                                        II I I
SHIPPING/DELIVERY TO FREETOWN                                                      _S*
SHIPPING/DELIVERY TO SCHOOLS                                                                              V IB 935 
TASK FORCE DIRECTOR TRAINING                                             _              _
EDITOR TRAINING                                                _
EDITORIAL CONSULTANT
LEGAL CONSULTANT                        .      _
Note: This implementation schedule will be revised by ODA.
.R= Grade 1, Primary Education
1htht1l= Grades 2-3, Primary Education
__L= Grades 4-6, Primary Education
Source: Appraisal Mission
World Bank-24016



SIERRA LEONE - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - BOOK DISTRIBUTION
1982                     1983                    1984                     1985                    1986
1     2    3      4    1      2     3    4    1       2      3    4     1    2    3       4      1    2     3      4
DISTRIBUTION CONSULTANCY
(Tower Hill Deputy)
CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
TENDERS:
Awards
Construction
Equipment Installation
Technical Assistance
(Manager of Distrib.)                                                             -    m _         _      _-_    _     _
Books to Tower Hill                                                                       _                       _
Books to Districts
Books to Schools                                                                                _                       _                     |
Note: This implementation schedule will be revised by ODA.
Source: Appraisal Mission
World Bank-24017              co






I BRD 16404R
1-31                                                                                                                                                         MARCH 1983
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                         60b6Prnmry classrooms/staff houses
Y    Te,tbook stores
Freeroon teachers college
r rOMETERS 0    10   20   30   40   50   60   70   80
MILES 0       10      20       30       4T     00so                                                                                                       t g  roadn
-10'                                                                                                                                                Ul~~~0    - posed  F"FFG'y old 5ecoodary,_
Feeder -oods
'\\ A } _.s j A \\ - ' O foreo ~~~~~~~~~RoRwray
I-- loter-at0oal 0 ryort
G    U    I   N    E   A                                                                                                                          A \,   / X ),\      F XI'St PS
r.2   SN,   4   JJF           X W          ,             \         \    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -AiSrsCtrips dOi
D,sttict bo.odo,ies
Q -    --Q C     _ -Pro,,c co  boudor,es
loternct,oi,al bolddr,es
MATO \OKA B            o AA                        SEFAD-
Hilt                                                                                                           EASTERN                        -G  U I   N  E  A
R ZMST IITH                                                                             U  DISTRICT
63'                  - >         X     *      U    -      W     l R .CS     <                        Thrs mao has been DreparddI fT  V I C 
LOYAMBA  o~~  Niolo       7B0   DISTRICT                                         -0      DISTRIC
K   d MAURITANIA    I                              Ao,od o,rssfo,rir
J  N ~~~~~~~~~  MALI~~~MGRR
LUNGIA    =>               ('PCeR .    f                    OCMANTOT                                            M.oogoE Fr0U
ESS^U   >GUINEA    >rA   4    (IZ  S                            SuLmo  fr>5                                    memalFonalFenancer,oirJ)rAtreen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioeror,ooirOro o,e,or,i
SIERRtA LEONE<r  F1    ' COS       sizNAogW   IEI                                                                                                   eourrwmn FF0 e ea sa
-,-
Ar dfAN,VT/C  O CFA N                                                         fN                                            )  
is.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d



