Document of
The World Bank                         FILE CO N
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3438-SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 18.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
April 5, 1983
I This documet has a restricted distibutin and may be used by recipients only in the perfor_mce of
their offcial duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be diselosed witbout World Bank authorizatlon.  i



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US$ = 1.25 Leones (Le)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  African Development Bank
MOE     -  Ministry of Education
ODA     -  Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO  -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
Third Education Project
Credit and Proj'ect Summary
Borrower:       The Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:         SDR 18.5 million (USS20 million)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  The project seeks to:  (a) improve the quality of primary
education through support for primary teacher training and
provision of textbooks; and (b) increase access to primary
education in rural areas through the construction of primary
schools. It also provides assistance for the Government's
efforts to strengthen educational planning, administration,
management, evaluation, and project implementation. Over a
six-year period, the project would construct and equip class-
rooms for about 22,500 primary school students, staff housing,
a new teacher training college in Freetown, and facilities for
a textbook distribution service. It would also provide over
one million textbooks and teachers' guides. All primary school
children would benefit from the quality improvements supported
by the project. The project would provide increased opportuni-
ties to attend school in the Northern area, which is the least
developed part of the country and where only 20 percent of
school-age children currently attend school. Major risks
are (i) that construction of such a large number of schools in
remote areas, as well as distribution of so many textbooks,
might exceed local physical and managerial capabilities; and
(ii) that efforts to improve educational planning and admin-
istration might be undercut by fundamental weaknesses in
government administration and the civil service. To minimize
the first risk, the geographic scope of the project has been
carefully selected.  To deal with the administrative weaknesses,
efforts under this project would be reinforced by other proposed
activities being discussed with the Government by the UNDP.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Project Item                              (US$ million)
Local 1/       Foreign          Total
Primary Schools                 9.4              4.0           13.4
Primary Teacher
Training                    0.9              1.3             2.2
Textbook Procurement
& Distribution               0.5              1.5             2.0
Administration, Planning
and Evaluation                0.7             0.6             1.3
Project Management              1.3             0.3             1.6
Base Cost                      12.8             7.8            20.6
Physical Contingencies          0.8             0.6             1.3
Price Contingencies             3.7              1.7            5.3
TOTAL 2/        17.3             10.0            27.3
Financing Plan:               Local           Foreign          Total
IDA                      11.9              8.1           20.0
Government                5.4               -              5.4
Overseas Development
Administration           -               1.9            1.9
TOTAL           17.3             10.0            27.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                     (US$ million)
FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
Annual                   1.4       3.1       4.4       4.9       3.8       2.4
Cumulative               1.4       4.5       8.9      13.8      17.6      20.0
Project Completion Date:    December 31, 1988
Staff Appraisal Report:        3932-SL
Map: IBRD No: 16404
1/   Includes US$1.7 million in taxes.
2/   Columns may not add perfectly due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDRs 18.5 million
(US$20 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Education
Project. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) is expected
to contribute a grant of about US$2.0 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Sierra Leone - Prospects for Growth and Equity"
(No. 3375-SL) of July 31, 1981 was distributed to the Executive Directors.
The following discussion is based on this economic report and on the findings
of two updating missions which visited Sierra Leone in February/March and June
1982. Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        Agriculture is the dominant sector providing employment to 65
percent of the labor force. But its contribution to GDP is about 30 percent,
implying the low productivity in the sector. Rice, the staple food, is grown
primarily for subsistence by more than 80 percent of the farmers. Even so,
the country faces increasing rice shortages. Coffee, cocoa and oil palm are
the major export crops and are also the principal sources of cash income for
the agricultural population.
4.        Sierra Leone is rich in minerals, and mining is a key sector.
Of the country's mineral resources, diamonds are most important, having
accounted for nearly 37 percent of all exports in FY82. The other minerals
exported are bauxite, rutile, and gold. The manufacturing sector is small
and consists largely of import-substituting industries; it employs about 10
percent of the labor force.
5.        Sierra Leone's social and economic infrastructure is not well
developed. The road network is generally adequate, but feeder roads are
often lacking and road maintenance is poor. The country has good water
resources, but its hydro-electric power potential has not been fully exploited.
6.        There is a substantial disparity in incomes between the modern and
traditional sectors of the economy. With a population of about 3.5 million
(1981), average per capita GNP was estimated at about US$150 for the rural
sector, while that in urban centers was estimated at about US$700. About 22
percent of the population live in urban areas.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Between 1962 and 1972, the first decade of independence, production
and income rose impressively. GDP grew nearly 5 percent a year, foreign
exchange earnings were adequate, and public revenue grew satisfactorily. The
Government did not face any serious limitation of financial resources. The
situation changed after 1972; diamond output declined, mainly as a result of
the depletion of alluvial deposits; oil prices increased sharply; and there
was a general rise in import prices of manufactured goods. The situation
worsened further in 1975, when the country lost its second largest source of
export earnings: the only iron ore mine closed due to rising production costs
and the declining grade of the iron ore. As a result of these factors, real
GDP declined 4 percent in 1976 and remained virtually stagnant thereafter.
Agricultural and mineral output, which together account for 40 percent of GDP
and almost all the country's exports, have declined since 1980. Per capita
real income has also declined because the population has grown at 2.6 percent
a year.
8.        Fiscal Performance.  The slowdown in economic growth and the erosion
of the export base after 1973 contributed to a marked deterioration in fiscal
performance. While public revenues increased 12 percent a year between FY73
and FY81, public spending rose more rapidly at a rate of nearly 21 percent a
year. Between FY81 and FY82, public revenues actually declined slightly,
while public spending continued to increase. The estimated budget deficit for
FY82 was US$119 million, which was nearly 10 percent of GDP. Public expendi-
tures are difficult to reduce because nearly 40 percent of the expenditures
are for salaries and wages. There is also heavy pressure on the current
budget from interest payments on outstanding debt.
9.        Balance of Payments.  Sierra Leone's balance-of-payments situation
has deteriorated steadily since the early 70s as import bills rose, largely as
a result of the sharp increase in energy prices after 1973, and exports
falling in value and volume. The cost of petroleum imports jumped from US$8
mill'ion in 1971 to about US$65 million in 1980, claiming more than a third of
the country's export earnings. The price of other imports also rose during
this time. For exports, on the other hand, stagnant production was reflected
in the volume of exports. During 1980 and 1981 the continued decline in the
reduced volume of exports was aggravated by depressed prices for Sierra Leone's
exports. Diamond prices fell sharply, and the other agricultural exports,
such as cocoa, coffee and palm oil, also suffered a substantial decline in the
world market. Meanwhile, domestic demand rose sharply because of expansionary
Government spending. The money supply also increased at an average annual
rate of more than 20 percent a year during 1977-81; inflation has been 15-20
percent a year. The rise in domestic demand created pressure on imports,
making things even worse. The balance-of-payments deficit increased from
3.9 percent of GDP in FY80 to 11 percent of GDP in FY81. At the end of
June 1981, the outstanding debt of Sierra Leone was about SDR300 million, or
about 30 percent of GDP.



10.       Development Planning.  Development spending during the first Five-
Year Plan (FY75-79) fell far short of the target mainly due to fiscal manage-
ment problems and serious foreign exchange constraints. Because of the
experience with the first Five-Year Plan and the time needed to prepare the
second Five-Year Plan, two interim investment plans--one for FY79-81 and the
other for FY82-84--were prepared. There has also been a serious shortfall in
implementing these plans. A short paper on the strategy of the second Five-
Year Plan is now available, but much work is needed to finalize the Plan. IDA
and UNDP have provided technical assistance for plan preparation, but progress
has been very slow. The sector plans needed as input to the Five-Year Plan
are still being prepared. A new cabinet appointed following the April 1982
elections appreciates the need to have an investment plan that will clarify
developmental objectives, determine intersectoral priorities, and ensure
coordination.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
11.       In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has relied since the mid-1970's on foreign borrowing to finance
its capital expenditures. Total external debt outstanding increased from
US$184.0 in 1975 to US$437 million in 1981, of which US$345.7 million was
disbursed. Of the total debt outstanding and disbursed, 33 percent was in
commercial credits, 37 percent in bilateral loans, and 30 percent in loans and
credits from international institutions. As of December 1981, the Bank Group
held 13 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding and disbursed.
Assistance from bilateral government sources came mostly from the Federal
Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China, the Netherlands, and
Japan. The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt has
deteriorated since the mid-1970's as a result of substantial borrowing through
suppliers' credits in the mid and late 1970s. Unable to service its external
debt, the Government approached its creditor countries through the Paris Club
in September 1977 and November 1979 and negotiated debt-relief agreements.
The relief amounted to an estimated US$39 million under the 1977 Agreement and
US$37 million under the 1979 Agreement. At present, Sierra Leone has arrears
on the renegotiated portion of both Paris Club consolidations as well as on
other consolidated debt to Paris Club members. Debt service on Bank Group
loans and credits amounted to about 6.0 percent of Sierra Leone's debt service
liability in 1981.
Development Issues
12.       Unsatisfactory economic management is the most immediate issue.
Without macroeconomic policy reforms, the economy cannot be put back on a
growth path. The reforms must include budgetary measures to increase revenue
and reduce spending; extra-budgetary expenditures will have to be eliminated.
Added to this is the need for appropriate pricing policies, especially for
foreign exchange, to help exports and curb domestic demand. A tight monetary
policy, consistent with fiscal policy, is also needed to ease the inflationary
pressure and help stabilize the economy. In addition to these short-run
policies, the Government has to address some structural issues important
for growth and equity. First, the economy at the moment is highly dualistic.



- 4 -
The agriculture sector is based on subsistence with low productivity. A very
small modern sector covers mining and some manufacturing. The dualism creates
inequities in living standards and incentives for outmigration from the
traditional sector, causing labor shortages during the peak agricultural
season and further losses in productivity in agriculture.
13.       Second, the economy has an exceptionally low rate of saving,
estimated at only 2 percent of GDP for FY82. The rate of taxation is also
very low. Compared with other economies having a similar mining sector,
Sierra Leone's rate of taxes on mining is exceptionally low, and this is
contributing to the low rate of overall saving. While the saving rate is low,
the investment structure has been such that the incremental capital-output
ratio for the economy has been quite high, at about 10 in the 1970's. This
has been due to heavy emphasis on infrastructure development and capital-
intensive projects. Third, the development of human resources has been poor.
The literacy rate for the country is only 15 percent; life expectancy esti-
mates vary between 35 and 47 years. Access to social services in rural areas
is extremely limited. Only 12 percent of the population has access to safe
drinking water. Sierra Leone has one of the highest infant mortality rates in
the world, about 200 per 1,000 live births during 1974-79. The primary school
enrollment ratio is low compared with other neighboring African countries.
The lack of educational and training opportunities is reflected in the
shortage of skilled manpower. Although Sierra Leone has a reasonably com-
petent administrative structure with adequate managerial and professional
skills, mid-level skills and the overall quality of labor have been poor.
Short-term economic management is needed to put the economy back on track.
Long-term growth prospects depend, however, on development of agriculture and
of human resources.
Recent Economic Reform Measures
14.       An Extended Fund Facility agreement with the IMF, which became
effective in early 1981, was abandoned after less than six months in part
because of the Government's inability to control spending. The new Finance
Minister has been responsive to Bank and Fund advice on macroeconomic policies
and has initiated a far-reaching macroeconomic reform program. A Government
announcement, "The Modification of Exchange Arrangements" dated December 1982,
set up a "commercial" market for foreign exchange, in addition to the existing
fixed or "official" market. The rate in the commercial market is determined
by a periodic foreign exchange auction and has resulted in a rate about twice
the "official" rate. The dual exchange rate is expected to converge after
about a year through a phased devaluation of the official rate. The Govern-
ment consulted with the IMF before announcing this procedure, including which
transactions should fall under each exchange rate. Significant measures to
contain public expenditure and mobilize additional resources are also under
way. Effective January 1983, the Government raised the domestic prices of
agricultural export commodities from 8 to 50 percent over last year's prices.
In the light of these reforms, the Fund has recently approved a concessionary
loan under the Compensatory Financing Facility and has begun negotiation of a
standby agreement.



-5-
Future Prospects
15.       The next two to three years will be difficult for Sierra Leone.  The
earliest revival of economic growth will probably not be before 1985-86, even
with the new investments in mining and continued investments in agriculture.
Appropriate agricultural prices and intensified efforts to increase agricul-
tural production could increase export earnings from cocoa, coffee, and palm
oil. But the total export earnings will change little during the first half
of the 1980's. The cost of imports may still rise, with the rate of increase
depending on the demand management policies pursued by the Government. In any
case, the balance-of-payments will continue to be under pressure. Further
rescheduling of both official and private debt servicing may be necessary.
In the medium and long term, Sierra Leone could both restore and sustain its
creditworthiness as the Government implements macroeconomic policies required
to implement an IMF supported program to improve the balance-of-payments.
16.       The future outlook of the mining sector is mixed.  The extent of
mineral deposits is not, however, fully known. The Kimberlite underground
diamond mining project has good prospects, but it may take some time to
materialize. Large iron ore reserves have been discovered, but most of these
are of low grade and presently not economic to mine. Only one iron ore mine,
which had earlier ceased operations because it was incurring losses, has now
reopened. Mining of rutile, which faced early difficulties, has progressed
satisfactorily, although the mine still operates well below capacity. Bauxite
mining has improved recently with the installation of new machinery and more
bauxite deposits have been discovered, but these are of low quality and will
be economic only if these are used to manufacture alumina. In recent years,
the interest in gold mining has revived but the total production remains very
small and comes mostly as the side-product of diamond mining.
17.       The Government is proposing the Bumbuna hydroelectric power project
to produce lower cost energy. This is a large project for a country the
size of Sierra Leone; total costs are estimated at about $280 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $180 million. In June 1982 the Board approved a
Power Sector Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit to help in the pre-
paration of the project. The Government and the Bank are currently analyzing
the macroeconomic implications of the project, including its effect on the
availability of resources for other development activities. If the project is
assessed as economically attractive, almost all the funds needed will have to
be raised externally and on concessional terms. In any case, a hydroelectric
project like Bumbuna would have a long gestation period. The benefits of
the Bumbuna project, if taken up, would not begin to accrue for five to six
years.
18.       Although the present balance-of-payments situation and the country's
debt profile do not justify lending on Bank terms, the country's low per
capita income justifies IDA assistance. At the same time, to ensure an
adequate flow of foreign exchange resources for the country's development
during a period of budgetary stringency, it would be appropriate to finance a
part of local costs of projects.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE I/
Bank Group Operations
19.       Bank and IDA operations in Sierra Leone to date have totalled
US$88.0 million. There have been five loans amounting to US$18.7 million
and eleven credits totalling US$69.3 million. IFC has provided a loan of
US$2.1 million to Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd which is now fully
disbursed. Five loans and five credits are fully disbursed. Disbursement
performance under Bank loans and IDA credits was satisfactory in the past,
with disbursements amounting to more than 40 percent of loans and credits
outstanding at the beginning of each fiscal year from FY78 to FY81. This was
because foreign assistance, including cofinanciers' contributions, have
accounted for a high proportion of project costs and because the Government
provided counterpart resources promptly. However, over the past year or so,
the Government has been experiencing a severe shortage of resources for
investment and this has delayed the execution of several projects in the
agricultural sector as well as the Second Highway Project. We are maintaining
a close dialogue with the Government on provision of counterpart funds so
as to minimize delays in project execution. Bank and IDA operations have
been in support of agriculture (39 percent), education (12 percent), power
(24 percent) highways (22. percent) and technical assistance (3 percent).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
February 28, 1983 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In
general, the execution of the ongoing projects has been satisfactory.
Lending Strategy
20.       The principal objectives of Bank and IDA assistance to Sierra Leone
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic develop-
ment planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate the productive sectors
with a view to broadening the country's export base; (c) improve the country's
essential infrastructure, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of
which presently constitutes a constraint upon the country's economic growth;
(d) raise the income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of
the population; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the
rural areas, and improve its quality. At the same time, the Bank and IDA seek
to encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing policies and to
strengthen the management of public sector corporations wherever appropriate.
21.       With the gradual decline in the production of diamonds, it has
become increasingly important to develop the agricultural and manufacturing
potential of the economy. Bank Group financed agricultural development
projects have provided improved extension services, feeder roads and farm
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Power Sector Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(P-3341-SL) of May 27, 1982.



- 7 -
inputs to smallholder farmers. These activities were started in the Eastern
area under the first project in 1970, and expanded in the East and introduced
in the North under the second project. A third agricultural development
project in the East and a second for the Northern area were approved by the
Executive Directors in FY81. These ongoing operations complement other
integrated agricultural development projects under way with the assistance of
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European
Economic Community (EEC). To ensure smooth assimilation of these projects
into the Ministry of Agriculture administration, a project is being prepared
for possible Bank Group support. The Bank carried out a review of the agri-
cultural sector in late 1982 and is now preparing its report with a view to
agreeing on a detailed set of policies with the Government which would help
accelerate development of the sector.
22.       In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project included
sections in the country's main trunk road system and a maintenance program,
as well as studies for further improvement of the road system. The second
highway project is strengthening the country's capacity to maintain its road
network. A power sector engineering and technical assistance project, which
was approved in June 1982, is helping complete preparation for the Bumbuna
hydroelectric project (see para. 17).
23.       Bank Group assistance to education is described in Part III of this
report. The proposed third project would increase access to primary education,
largely in the rural areas, and improve its quality. The project would
address a critical constraint to development--the low educational achievement
of workers in rural areas--and thereby complement the Bank's support for
agricultural development.
24.       To achieve its medium and longer-term development objectives, the
Government needs to improve its econonic planning and project preparation
capabilities. In response to a request from the Government, IDA is financing
a Technical Assistance Project which is designed to assist the Government
to formulate a second National Economic Development Plan and prepare well-
conceived development projects in a number of priority sectors.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
economic difficulties in the last few years. Improvement in the Government's
management of the economy will be an important determinant of the level of
future Bank Group operations in Sierra Leone.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOIJRCES SECTOR
Human Resources
26.       About 65 percent of Sierra Leone's labor force are employed in
agriculture. While the total labor force was estimated at 1.2 million in 1974,
wage employment, mostly outside the agricultural sector, accounted for only



- 8 -
about 120,000. Of those employed, some 58 percent work for either the Govern-
ment or public enterprises, and half of those employed are either unskilled or
semi-skilled workers. The slowdown in economic activity in recent years has
led to stagnation of employment growth in the modern sector. Given the
uncertainties regarding resumption of growth over the medium term, prospects
for a substantial increase in modern sector employment do not appear good.
Agriculture does, however, hold the potential for increases in productivity,
incomes, and export earnings through the adoption of improved methods of pro-
duction and policies which would provide adequate incentives. Consequently,
the majority of new entrants into the labor force during the 1980's will need
to be absorbed into agriculture, small-scale enterprises, and the informal
sector. It follows that human resource policies should support increased
productivity of the dominant traditional sector through literacy training
and basic skill development to facilitate the introduction of improved tech-
nologies in agriculture and small-scale industry.
Education System
27.       Sierra Leone's education system was patterned after the British
system and maintains close links with it in terms of standards, examinations,
and professional qualifications. The system comprises a primary course of
seven years, a five-year secondary course, and, in some schools, a two year
sixth form. Higher education is provided by five teachers colleges, two
technical institutes, and the constituent branches of the University of Sierra
Leone at Fourah Bay and Njala. A number of specialized institutes within the
formal system provide technical, vocational, and agricultural training.
English is the language of instruction at all levels.
28.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) has overall responsibility for
formal education in Sierra Leone. IJntil recently, authority was almost
completely centralized, with very little diffusion to the regional level,
but now District Education Committees have been set up to operate schools
within their jurisdiction. In addition, a variety of private agencies
(employing authorities) operate schools with financial assistance from MOE.
The University of Sierra Leone and its institutes have autonomous status, but
the University's budget is largely dependent on Government grants included in
MOE's budget.
29.       Educational planning and evaluation are the responsibility of the
Planning Unit of MOE. Educational research, curriculum development, and
teacher upgrading are the responsibilities of the Institute of Education,
which is attached to the University of Sierra Leone.
Main Issues in Education
30.      Until the mid-seventies, priority was given to the development of
secondary general, technical, and university education in order to produce
skilled manpower to meet shortages in the modern sector of the economy.
The development of secondary education has been dramatic, with enrollments
increasing at an average annual rate of more than 13 percent between 1963 and



- 9 -
1977. In contrast, primary education enrollments have increased by only
5 percent annually. Existing secondary schools and vocational training
institutions can satisfy the modern sector's present limited demand for
skilled manpower. Consequently, in the context of a development strategy
to achieve growth and alleviate poverty, the main issue for the education
sector is how to increase access to basic education while at the same time
improving its quality without unduly burdening the Government's budget.
Access to Education
31.       Only 40 percent of school-age children were enrolled in schools
in 1978, and actual attendance figures are believed to be considerably lower.
Moreover, there is considerable disparity in enrollment between urban and
rural areas, ranging from 70 percent in the towns to 25 percent in rural
areas. Universal primary education is a national objective. However, the
wide geographic dispersal of Sierra Leone's population is an obstacle to
the growth of education in rural areas. Careful school location planning is
therefore essential if access to education is to be increased at a reasonable
cost.
Quality of Education
32.       Although pupil/teacher ratios are low in both primary and secondary
education, quality has reportedly declined in recent years. UInqualified
teachers, poor facilities, and a lack of textbooks have had a negative impact
on the internal efficiency of the system. There is a high drop-out rate, a
high number of grade repeaters, and student achievement is low.
Institutional Weaknesses
33.       An important constraint to the coherent and rational development
of education, as well as efficient project implementation, is the weakness
of the institutions responsible for managing and planning the education
system. Recent efforts to decentralize educational administration, while
desirable, have accentuated the institutional weakness of MOE. In addition,
MOE suffers from a decline in morale and general effectiveness which has been
apparent throughout the Government in recent years.
34.       The First Education Project (Cr. 170-SL) and, to a larger extent,
the Second Education Project (Cr. 573-SL) have provided significant support
to MOE's Planning Unit and the Institute of Education to strengthen educa-
tional planning, evaluation, research, curriculum development, and in-service
teacher training. In addition, the Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 970-SL)
includes financing for an educational planning adviser and staff training in
educational planning. Although much valuable work has been done, achievement
of the institutional project objectives has been limited by the lack of
qualified staff to fill existing vacancies and the absence of an adequate
operating budget.



- 10 -
Education Cost and Finance
35.       Total recurrent expenditures on education represented 4 percent of
GDP and 18 percent of the Government's total recurrent budget for 1981/82.
While the former percentage is roughly similar to that in other Wjest African
countries, the latter is relatively low. About 40 percent of the education
budget is allocated to primary education, which is equivalent to the median
for sub-Saharan Africa. The Government's financial outlays for primary
education have increased in recent years; expenditures on primary education as
a percentage of GDP increased from 1.3 percent in 1977 to 1.6 percent in 1981.
The latter proportion is considerably above the average in African countries
at a similar stage of educational development.
36.       Apart from the Bank Group, the leading bilateral and multilateral
donors for educational development in Sierra Leone are the United Kingdom
(UK), the European Community, the UNDP, and the African Development Bank (ADB).
The UK is the main source of technical assistance personnel for education.
Government Strategy
37.       Beginning with the first five-year National Development Plan
(FY75-79), the Government's stated economic policy has given increasing
emphasis to agricultural and rural development as the "engine" of economic
development. In support of this policy, the development of primary education
is given a much higher priority than before, with the initial emphasis on
curriculum development and pre-service primary teacher training. In 1979 the
Government undertook, with support under the Second Education Project, an
in-depth review of its education sector policies. The review's conclusions
emphasized the need to take further steps toward achieving the above-mentioned
policy objectives by implementing (a) a nationwide primary school construction
program, and (b) a series of measures to improve the quality of education,
including an increase in the number of qualified teachers and production of
educational materials.
The Bank Group's Role
38.       Both the First and Second Education Projects supported the Govern-
ment's priorities for skilled manpower development by providing assistance
to: (a) diversify and expand secondary education programs; (b) expand
and upgrade trade schools and technical institutes; and (c) provide facili-
ties for secondary technical teacher training and management training, and
upgrade facilities for primary teacher training. The second project also
supported the Government's rural development strategy through the creation
of a training institute for community development workers. In addition, the
project financed educational planning and research to improve the quality
of primary education.
39.       The First Education Project was completed at the end of 1975, about
18 months behind the appraisal schedule. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR No. 1433 of January 26, 1977) says that the project compared



- 11 -
favorably with audited education projects in other countries with respect to
general institutional achievements--in educational administration, planning,
and curriculum development. Civil works and equipment were appropriate and
all the schools are now in operation. The outcome of the primary teacher
training program at the Freetown Teachers Training College, originally intended
to be attended during evening hours by unqualified teachers and housed in the
facilities of a secondary school, has been less satisfactory. The difficul-
ties were discussed extensively in the PPAR, but no improvement has occurred
since. The College offers a teacher training program for unqualified teachers
during evening hours. However, only half of the students are practicing
teachers and the rest are regular full-time students. Since most practicing
teachers find it too demanding to study at night while holding full-time
teaching jobs, many drop out of the program. The Second Education Project
(Cr. 573-SL) was completed by the end of 1982, about two years behind schedule
because of start-up delays. Project institutions are in operation and the
outcome of the project will be evaluated during the first half of 1983.
40.       The low rate of schooling and the resulting high illiteracy rates
among adults are constraints to the adoption of new methods to increase and
diversify agricultural production. The Bank views improvements in the access
and quality of primary education as leading sectoral priorities, especially in
light of the growing body of evidence based on research in several parts of
the world which indicates that education, especially at the lower levels, is
an essential condition for economic and social development. To finance the
accelerated development and quality improvement of primary education, the
Government will need to control costs and make better use of available
resources.
41.       Universal primary education is a long-term policy objective and the
Government could realistically aim at enrolling 70-80 percent of all primary
school-age children by the mid-1990s provided that 2 percent of GDP were
allocated to primary education by that time and available resources were used
effectively. Following discussions with the Bank, the Government has agreed
to take measures to make expenditures in the sector more efficient. These
include: (a) reduction of the primary course from seven to six years, and
(b) a gradual increase in the number of pupils per teacher from the present
35:1 to 45:1 not later than the 1991/92 school year. The reduction in dura-
tion of the primary school course would start with the students entering first
grade in the 1984-85 school year. The increase in the pupil/teacher ratio
would be phased in by adding a minimum of one pupil per teacher each year
starting in 1983/84 through 1991/92 in the calculation used to determine the
salary grants to public and private employing authorities. The Government has
agreed to: (a) submit to IDA by December 31, 1983 for review and comment a
plan to implement these measures; and (b) prepare a progress report on their
execution and review the report's conclusions with IDA by December 31, 1985
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.13).



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       A sector review report prepared in 1979 by a Sierra Leonean task
force with UNESCO assistance outlined the major elements of the proposed
project which were presented to the Association in March 1980. The project
was prepared by the Government between September, 1980 and December, 1981,
and was appraised by the Association in January/February 1982. Negotiations
took place in Washington on February 10 and 14, 1983. The Sierra Leonean
delegation was headed by the Honorable E. Ndomahina, Minister of Education.
Significant events and special conditions are summarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.       The project would:  (a) improve the quality of primary education
through support to primary teacher training and the provision of textbooks;
and (b) increase access to primary education in rural areas through the
construction of primary schools. The project would also assist the Govern-
ment in its efforts to strengthen educational planning, administration,
management, evaluation, and project implementation.
Project Description
44.       The project would be implemented during the six-year period from
1983 to 1988, and would comprise:
Part I: Development of Primary Education
(a) Primary education. Construction and operation of about
500 classrooms and about 66 staff houses, to provide
about 22,500 student places, in rural areas; and provision of
(i) furniture and equipment for these classrooms, and (ii)
specialist services to develop standards and simple designs for
school buildings and furniture.
(b) Primary teacher training. Construction and operation of a
primary teacher training college in Freetown and provision of
(i) furniture and equipment for the college and (ii) specialist
services for study of the efficiency of teacher training.
Construction of three houses for teachers at the college.
(c) Textbook procurement and distribution. (i) Development,
acquisition, storage, and distribution by the textbook task
force of primary school textbooks; and (ii) upgrading of the
existing central book storage facility in Freetown and nine
district book warehouses.



- 13 -
Part II:  Administration, Planning, and Evaluation
Provision of equipment, specialist services, fellowships and
operating funds to:
(a)  improve the administrative and educational skills of all key
staff at the central, regional, and local levels concerned with
primary education; and provide training in support of the
textbook component;
(b)  strengthen the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education,
especially its capacity to collect educational data and carry
out school location planning;
(c)  support studies on education, planning, and financing to be
conducted by the Planning Ulnit; and
(d)  strengthen evaluation research, particularly related to the
textbook component.
Part III: Project lIanagement
Strengthening and operation of the Project Unit through the
provision of equipment and local staff services.
Status of Project Preparation
45.       Educational specifications for all project institutions have been
prepared and a locally established firm of consulting architects has been
appointed to do the architectural design work. Six pilot primary schools were
constructed in 1982. The equipment list for the primary schools was approved
by IDA during appraisal and bidding documents for the first phase of the
primary school construction and equipment program have subsequently been
approved by IDA. Final drawings and equipment lists for the Freetown Teachers
College have also been approved by IDA. Documents for the prequalification of
textbook suppliers have been found acceptable by IDA.
Project Implementation
46.       The Project Unit, which was created within the Ministry of Finance
to coordinate implementation of the first project (Cr. 170-SL), and continued
to do so under the second (Cr 573-SL), would again serve this function
under the proposed project. Staffed entirely with Sierra Leoneans, the Unit
is well managed and efficient. Since 1979, it has also coordinated imple-
mentation of an education project financed by the ADB. The educational
aspects of the project would be executed by MOE and other appropriate official
agencies. Since the Project IJnit has limited experience in the construction
of large numbers of school buildings in remote areas and since the number of
competent contractors is limited in these areas, a pilot primary school
construction program has been carried out (see para. 45) and funds have been
included in the project to strengthen the supervisory staff of the Project



- 14 -
Unit. Since the Government also lacks experience in the distribution of
textbook and school materials on a large scale, the project would include
funds to improve the existing warehouse and distribution system.
47.       Primary Schools.  All the project schools would be located in remote
rural areas, mainly in the Northern part of the country where only 20-30 per-
cent of school age children attend school. They would function on a multigrade
basis, whereby six primary grades would be taught in two or three classrooms.
Staff houses would be provided only for the schools in the most remote areas,
where rented accommodation is not available and to which it would otherwise be
difficult to attract qualified teachers. The Government and IDA have agreed
on criteria for location of the schools, and acceptable sites for about 85
schools, to be constructed in the first phase of the construction programs in
1983 and 1984, have been selected. The Government has agreed that a list of
all proposed sites for the primary school and staff housing construction
program will be selected and submitted for IDA's review and approval by
December 31, 1983 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06). The
Government would ascertain that land is available to construct and operate
the facilities included in the project (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.17).
48.       IDA has reviewed and approved the bidding documents for the first
phase of school construction and equipment purchases.  The proposed project
would also finance an internationally recruited architect in the Project UJnit
for two years to develop simple standard designs for primary schools and
school furniture which can be constructed by villagers with their own means,
and conduct experiments in this respect.
49.       Primary Teacher Training.  The Freetown Teachers Training College
currently operates in a secondary school which was expanded under the First
Education Project for common use by the secondary school and the College. The
building is used in the day time for the secondary school and during evening
hours for training of unqualified practicing teachers. However, the quality
and efficiency of the programs offered at present is low (para. 39); and the
number of teachers trained annually needs to be increased to meet the require-
ments of an expanded primary education program. Since this cannot be done in
the existing facilities, the Government has decided to create a new facility
for the teacher training college that would train 432 students in a three-year
program expected to produce about 130 new qualified teachers a year. Unquali-
fied teachers with teaching experience would be given leave of absence with
pay to attend the College full-time. The facilities would also be used for
vacation courses for unqualified teachers. A site has been selected and the
Government would present evidence satisfactory to IDA promptly after acquisi-
tion, and before issuing invitations to bid, that the land for the teacher
training college or rights to the land were available for purposes related to
the project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.17). The old
facility would be used exclusively for secondary education.
50.       Textbook Procurement and Distribution.  The project includes
(a) procurement and distribution, over a three-year period, of about one
million textbooks and 125,000 teachers' guides; and (b) structural improve-
ments, furniture, and equipment for the existing central book storage facility
in Freetown and for nine existing district book warehouses.



- 15 -
51.       The textbook publishers would adapt existing books to the new
Sierra Leone curriculum with the assistance of a Sierra Leonean advisory
committee. All materials issued under the project would be copyrighted by
the Government alone or jointly with the publishers. Royalties, if any,
would be determined as part of the contract negotiations.
52.       The Government has agreed to establish a task force to coordinate
preparation, production, and distribution of textbooks. The task force would
report to MOE and work closely with the Project Unit. Recruitment of the head
of the task force by the Minister of Education is under way and assurances
have been given that, not later than August 31, 1983, the textbook task force
would be established and an advisory committee appointed to advise the Chairman
of the task force; both would be composed of suitably qualified members (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08).
53.       The task force is expected to evolve into a national textbook pro-
curement and distribution service. The Government has agreed to study the
organizational, legal, and financial framework for such a service in the light
of experience gained during project implementation and prepare draft documents
for its establishment. The Government would submit the study together with
the appropriate draft documentation to IDA for review and comment by June 30,
1985 and put into operation the national textbook service by June 30, 1986
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.11).
54.       Administrative and Educational Staff Training.  The project would
finance 45 two-week workshops for administrative and educational staff con-
cerned with primary education at the central, regional, and local level.
The workshops would be organized for MOE by the Institute for Public Adminis-
tration, which would employ a program coordinator/lecturer for this purpose.
An outline of workshop programs has been prepared and the Government has
agreed to submit to IDA by August 31 of each year, for review and approval,
the final program and cost estimate for the series of workshops planned for
the upcoming school year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.09).
To promote better monitoring of school standards and performance, the project
would finance travel within Sierra Leone of the inspectorate staff (about
US$200,000). MOE would plan the program for use of the travel funds. The
Government would submit to IDA, by August 31 of each year, detailed plans for
use of the travel funds during the coming school year, and a report on the use
of the funds during the preceding year (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.14).
55.       Educational Planning.  MOE is preparing a plan to strengthen its
Planning Unit. Assurances have been received that the Government would
furnish this plan to IDA for review and comment not later than December 31,
1983 and start implementation not later than July 1, 1985 (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.10(a)). To strengthen educational planning, the
project would provide MOE's Planning Unit with specialist services, fellow-
ships for staff training, equipment, and operating funds. The project would
extend the support presently provided under the Technical Assistance Project
(see para. 34) for an education adviser in the Planning IUnit for a period of



- 16 -
two years starting in July 1983. Three fellowships in educational planning
would be awarded to junior staff in the Planning Unit. Similar assistance was
provided under the Second Education Project. UJnder the proposed project, such
positions would be established in the Planning Unit and fellowships in educa-
tional planning would be awarded to staff already in them (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.10(b)). These and all other fellowships would be
awarded to suitably qualified persons to participate in training programs
satisfactory to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
56.       Evaluation.  The project would finance studies on:  (a) the impact
of the textbook component on changes in student achievement, attendance, and
promotion rates; (b) distribution, storage, and use of textbooks; (c) teacher
training; and (d) other project components. Assurances have been received
that these studies would be carried out in accordance with research designs
acceptable to IDA and that the conclusions and recommendations of studies (a),
(b) and (c) would be furnished to IDA before December 31, 1986 for review and
comment (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.12).
57.       All the project-financed research and evaluation studies would
be coordinated by the Institute of Education, which is expected to play a key
role in their implementation. It would encourage the use of the research
capabilities of the University of Sierra Leone, Milton Margai Teachers College,
and other local institutions. The Institute of Education would also assist in
the preparation of the project completion report.
Project Costs
58.       Costs, including US$1.7 million of taxes, are estimated at US$27.3
million, of which US$10.0 million are foreign costs. A breakdown of project
costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this
report.
59.       The cost estimates for civil works are for October 1982 and are
based on preliminary designs and unit costs derived from construction con-
tracts awarded from 1977 to 1981 for similar buildings. The project would
be exempt from customs duties and income taxes on expatriate salaries; sales
taxes and income taxes paid by the project on local staff salaries are
however included in the total project costs. The average net-of-tax cost of
construction of the teachers' college is estimated at the equivalent of US$365
per square meter. The cost per student place of academic and communal facilities
at the teachers' college is estimated at the equivalent of US$2,285, which
is lower than construction costs for similar institutions in neighboring
countries. The average net-of-tax cost of construction of the primary schools
is estimated at the equivalent of US$128 per square meter. The cost per
student place in the primary schools is estimated at the equivalent of US$258.
The average cost of expatriate specialists, based on recent recruitment
experience of international organizations and the Government, is estimated at
US$8,000 per man-month, including salary, allowances, and overhead; the cost
of local specialists averages the equivalent of US$1,000 per man-month. The
project would finance 1,174 staff-months of specialist services, of which
125 staff-months are expected to be provided by expatriate staff, as well
as 90 staff-months of fellowships. Locally established consultants have been
appointed for preparation of design work.



- 17 -
60.       Project costs include a physical contingency allowance of 10 percent
of the base cost for civil works, furniture, and equipment. Price contingen-
cies of 26 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies have been
applied overall. Foreign cost increases for goods, services, and fellowships
were calculated according to Bank guidelines as follows: 1983, 8 percent;
1984, 7.5 percent; 1985, 7 percent; and 1986-88, 6 percent. Local cost
increases for goods and works were calculated at 10 percent for 1983-88.
Local cost increases for salaries were calculated at 5 percent for 1983-88.
The price increases for local goods and civil works were estimated on the
basis of the trend during 1977-80. Local salary price contingencies at 5
percent are in line with Government policies.
Financing Plan
61.       The proposed project would be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 18.5
million (US$20.0 million) and a grant of approximately US$2 million equivalent
from the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA). ODA would finance
all costs of the textbook component excluding operating costs. The IDA credit
would finance the rest of the foreign exchange costs (US$8.1 million) and 69
percent of the local costs (US$11.9 million), including 65 percent of the
operating costs. The Government would finance all incremental recurrent costs,
35 percent of the operating costs, and all taxes levied on project goods and
services. The Government would make adequate provision in its recurrent
budget to cover the incremental recurrent costs and ensure adequate staffing
of the project institutions (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.03).
62.       As discussed in Part I of this report, the Government faces severe
financial constraints which would make it difficult for it to advance funds
for expenditures to be financed from the IDA credit. For this reason, it is
recommended that a Special Account with an initial advance of the equivalent
of US$250,000 from the credit be established to pay for local operating cost
expenditures, furniture, equipment, spare parts and building materials to be
financed by IDA. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would open
an account for this purpose in a financial institution acceptable to IDA
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 2.03 and 6.01(b)). The Project
Manager heading the Project Unit would control the Special Account, and IDA
would replenish it upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of expenditures. In
addition, the Government would deposit Le 100,000 in a separate Project Fund
to pre-finance the local contribution to the project investment costs. Deposit
of the initial Le 100,000 advance would be a condition of effectiveness and
the Government would undertake to replenish the Project Fund quarterly with
amounts equal to those which had been withdrawn and to use the Project Fund
only for project-related expenses (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections
3.04 and 6.01(c)).
Procurement^
63.       All goods and services financed by IDA would be procured in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines or procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Civil
works for the teachers college valued at IJS$1.6 million and equipment and
furniture valued at US$0.4 million would be procured through international



- 18 -
competitive bidding. Domestic contractors would be given a preference of
7-1/2 percent in the evaluation of bids for civil works. Domestic manufac-
turers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential margin of
15 percent of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable
customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Items of furniture and equip-
ment which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent,
or which are not suitable for international competitive bidding (see para.
64), would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
which have been examined and are acceptable to IDA. Items below US$15,000
equivalent, for which potential suppliers are limited, would be procured by
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. The total value of items
procured by both of these methods would not exceed US$500,000. Goods and
services financed by ODA would be procured in accordance with ODA procedures.
64.       Civil works valued at US$9.4 million for the primary school pro-
gram including the staff houses--all comprising small, widely dispersed
buildings--would be procured under local bidding procedures acceptable to IDA.
Building materials, including materials provided to small contractors, valued
at US$1.0 million and to be purchased in lots of less than US$50,000, and
furniture and equipment totalling an estimated US$1.2 million, to be purchased
over a four-year period and delivered to the widely dispersed sites would be
procured by inviting quotations or through local competitive bidding pro-
cedures which have been found to be acceptable to IDA. For all contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more for civil works and of
US$50,000 or more for goods (resulting in coverage of about 40 percent of the
total number of civil works packages and 15 percent of the goods packages
respectively, i.e., 90 percent of the total estimated value of civil works and
about 60 percent of goods contracts), IDA would review the bidding documents
and the bid evaluation reports before the contracts were awarded.
65.       The Government has given assurances that the services of interna-
tionally recruited staff and consultants would be procured in accordance with
IDA's guidelines and would have qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of service acceptable to IDA.
Disbursement
66.       The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed to cover expendi-
tures as follows: civil works, 90 percent (USS11.0 million); professional
fees for civil works, 95 percent (US$0.3 million); furniture, equipment, spare
parts, and building materials, 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local
(US$2.1 million); specialists, 100 percent of expatriate services (US$1.0
million) and 70 percent of local services (US$0.5 million); training, 100
percent (US$0.35 million); and operating costs, 65 percent (US$0.8 million).
All incremental recurrent costs would be met by the Government. The disburse-
ment profile summarized in the Credit and Project Summary reflects the advanced
stage of project preparation, as well as previous experience with education
projects in Sierra Leone and the rest of West Africa. All disbursements would
be fully documented except those for training workshops conducted in Sierra
Leone and for operating costs which would be disbursed against certified
statements of expenditure.



- 19 -
Financial Implications for Government
67.       The project would help the Government improve the allocation of
resources available to the sector. While the increase in the percentage of
qualified teachers and the provision of textbooks would increase the unit
cost of primary education, a planned reduction in the duration of primary
school from seven to six years and an increase in the pupil/teacher ratio
would generate savings. The net effect of these measures is not expected to
increase education expenditures substantially.
Audit
68.       The Government would have all project accounts--including the
Special Account, Project Fund, and records in support of statements of
expenditures--audited annually by independeht auditors acceptable to IDA and
would submit a copy of each audit report to IDA within six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
69.       Short-term benefits would include (a) greater access to primary
school in rural areas through the provision of about 500 new classrooms, and
(b) improved quality of instruction in the primary schools through provision
of about one million textbooks and 125,000 teachers' guides. Long-term
benefits would include qualitative and quantitative development of the primary
school system through efforts to: (a) strengthen the educational planning
capacity of MOE, (b) develop the evaluation capacity of the Institute of
Education, (c) establish a national textbook service, and (d) develop appro-
priate school building and furniture designs for use in village self-help
school construction.
70.       The risks are threefold.  First, the primary school construction
program may be hampered by the Project IJnit's lack of experience in coordina-
tion and supervision of a large number of schools in rural areas and by the
limited number of qualified local contractors. These potential problems were
addressed in the pilot primary school construction scheme and through increased
support for the Project Unit supervisory staff. Second, distribution of such
a large number of books poses considerable logistic problems. To minimize
these risks, the project would include: (a) consultant services in textbook
storage and distribution, as well as training for support staff; and (b)
operating funds for transport and distribution of textbooks by private firms.
Third, previous efforts to strengthen MOE's Planning Unit under the Second
Education Project were of limited success because of difficulties in recruiting
and retaining qualified staff. This project would address the problem of
staff turnover to some extent by requiring fellowship holders to be appointed
to established positions in the Planning Unit before departure for training.
Furthermore, as a result of the review of the Planning Unit presently being
carried out by the Ministry of Education, the Unit is expected to be able to
carry out its responsibility for policy formulation more efficiently. These
efforts would be reinforced by proposed assistance being discussed with the
Government by the UNDP to deal with the pervasive weaknesses in public admin-
istration and the civil service in general.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Sierra Leone and IDA as well as the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
additional conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) the making of
satisfactory arrangements for obtaining the ODA grant; (b) opening of a
Special Account in a local financial institution; and (c) deposit of an
initial amount of Le 100,000 in a separate Project Fund.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association approve
the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 5, 1983



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page  1
SIERRA LEONE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL              71.7                                      MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       39.6                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                          ..       160.0      280.0                 250.0                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           29.0        120.3       83.7                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       2165.0       2692.0    3474.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    13.0           18.1       21.5                  17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             6.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              19.2
YEAk STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                            30.2         37.5       47.1                  27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          93.0         72.9       85.3                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              41.7         43.0      44.1                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                              55.0         53.8       52.7                  52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.3          3.2        3.2                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.8          2.2        2.6                   2.7                      2.8
LRBkAN                                  5.3          5.5        4.3                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH SATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.9         45.7       45.5                  47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.9         22.1       18.4                  19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0          3.0        3.0                   3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               98.0         99.0      86.0                   88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        81.0         87.4      85.0/c                 90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               41.0         43.0      43.9T,                 53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            12.7         12.8      15.i7l                 18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          57.4         55.5       49.6                  26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2         42.1       47.0                  45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               233.8        227.6      207.5                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0         ..                  23.9
URBAN                                               75.0                             54.9
RURAL                                    ..          1.0         ..                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                    ..           ..         ..                  63.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              20424.5      18067.1         ..               32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          2955.4/d    3802.3          ..                3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1311.8       1095.2         ..                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                                 288.7        361.1         ..                 249.5                    430.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..                1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          6.5
URBAN                                    ..          5.7
RURAL                                    ..          6.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          2.1/e       ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         ..
URBAN
RURAL                                   2. 0/d



- 22 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SIERRA LEONE- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SIERRA LEONE                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 23.0         33.0       37.0/c                63.2                     83.3
MALE                  30.0        40.0       45.07                72.7                      96.1
FEMALE                15.0        26.0       30.07Ec               50.3                      80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         9.0       12.0/c                10.2                     15.3
MALE                   3.0         12.0      16.07T                13.2                      19.4
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0       8. 07                 6.6                      11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   7.2            1.5       1.6/f                 7.9                       4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.7         32.3       32.1/c                47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           16.6        20.4       19.471                26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          6.7La       15.0/h      ..                  34.0                      35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.3         8.7        6.0/i                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.2         14.9       98.7                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2/g        1.1        5.9                   1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.9        16.7        3.0                   2.9                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  Q.2/d         0.1         ..                   1.1                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        910.7      1055.6    1266.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   36.6         35.8       34.8                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               78.0        71.0       65.0                  78.4                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0         15.0       19.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.1        39.2       36.5                  41.4                      37.0
MALE                                  54.7        51.5       48.4                  53.9                      46.9
FEMALE                                30.0        27.5       25.0                  29.1                      27.2
ECQNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.2       1.3                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        26. 6/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.2T*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         6.57        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        15.673
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-     '            105.0                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                  82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELArIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     198.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       40.0                  60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      65.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962; /e 1967; /f 1975; /g 1963; /h 1973; /i 1976; /f 1968.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                 ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL ImDICpriS                                                   Page    3
Ustst-   Algbeogh the dotsor  dres  free -. soce   geerll  jdgedthe  -ntcuthot.tit-' and reliable.  it should alo be totd that they nay to  hiner
tnm..     touelcsasi d.tbeas  ofteteho  stndrdodydfiito ad cocet  usd by differen   c-otrlen   e col-lecin  the date.  The data   r,                                           r
theens  usfultodesrib   orer  of   gitd.indiasta  treds, end oh arctrote-  certain sojor dirfferecos
The tref-rrcs groups ar  (i) the sane  .rootry group of the subject couty and  (2) a cOuntrY grou  with somehat big9boo  -oorg0 jicos  than tlb  coun.try grcup
ofL the sojctcurr   (eaep  for   "'Hgh Inoe-                l DnRP-tcarn" group share  'Middle tacons North Africe and Piddle fut" to  hobr- becaus  cf etrorger
sucia-ultorl affnitie).   itthe rferooo  ecnp data the evcfsaePoPaIatior weighted  -ricftic meson for each Icdicst-  and show- nyo
ajunIty of the  _rutie  in- grouP be  dat   o   htIndctr   lc                       h  cvRag   of corce    sn   h   niaosdped   nteaalblt    fdt
oendotor  tatn _         eo  th  cooen  an  reernc   group.t..Sott
dflk  (tbousendaq.km.)                                                                      Popaleti-c car  opinaodi. - ltatl   re,adtrt-Pplto    ttl
ToaAM      oa   atc    racwifglu    rtadicadwtr;17   aa                                                 ra.adrrl   iin   byd their  dp~d  -epc h.c on abeltof bueptal d
ffaiulerc  - stsee   f  griuiucl  re  use 1epoecty-         or pernatently         alothlah Tin.  pi-gic  ed priat  genera  anI             soIa Ine  hsptl  ed
Talted1 b  sane1 canvrsia  es-thod- as torri        drn   Atee(17-go basis); 197  dt.,cdmeia cenesIo   orsent   tafd  oaphecir(utb 
1970,  td t90 duta                                                                            medial -s`ns-nt nure  midd,        fo  et.)abob fori -ptien   ecoo
gtftOf  CODOyfPTIO9rtu CaITA -  usnat csuptir o  ct ns-rcilyoogy  (_oaly                    tic    blMirpse  urhic  hoodtby  thciad        t -sO  p tncplfgroehoetl hopial.c
Total Poplatias, nid-Icar   thouads) W  o   o   cp1   06,17,ad  logod' f0 11                       ...
PopulatIo it   year 200 -                 .u.... po Plttuc   ofu)ociin l are -ose  un 1 i-heafPorevs. per ro-toil.l. urbee, an  Ore  ocuie                            hoor itoal.
neterofor tetititycute do  hea  trc  lvseamigdcto1oftotl  Srhuu,icd ruralt dnrtiiigsrespocc yv-ly.
d(ULTOchcutyt  thDIn  00C5 ignodnoriocthesodoteiduhiocbyos  f socalitffobtTdO
tiebrhb        uei  eqa  to the1 deathiot.  an olnb           teaearrtr r.ouloa   falco t                                          thepritrylooponporcltgtiof  enpc ti
saNsPo...  tuti.    it    sahce    nyotrfnffpccssciot                                            Acia d schol-ag t uolilus  udil Irolhudra  cilico  in   -l
oif maso  feyiace   islf97cbuct.   Thef  ettlsy  ynpoblityiofIc  cat.                             cdntIu   with. anius bu..educaton    ro Ymeo  naY  lucot  100 icledoI
-. A   . the iyaur 21900.  n   h  r.at  of drolso f  fotutyrtatohplco..cnd. hold f-  toital  mic.  an   eml-                                        -Cnptd  cabv;  eondr
meot     .  local-                  PP.-i.  p.J-i.rdIob,d  .190b ceriotr-qir  atoo  L.s  four yours of uprodp-mr1nurcit
Ter'ctnr  poplaio  isd rechd -the you  shtin  uc tton                  y   -rylaio               dyrovtdcsi.  l-p-tr-l,ynoutin1  octuLo.cine                 ntuton     rppI
Populatfoc Penuigtyth  ..Ito. c_lofed.I
Per   liba. .-Pt .id-yIc pbiltioh  par sqeekioeerfl  icaeIo                                     vctina  erlt'litsr  iPcrcect of secoindary) - Vocooonol  ittiuloat
no tal urea  106    lt.1971   c and .107  dtabl.. 17.    -.T.pl-._tocudotecnIcl.i irothrio, or ocher progran  whic  -peoi  indepond-
atly;  flOhIltlt,1072 ard-th..I..1L l-  1070 deI.                                              Pufi-touch      .,   d c  ai c priary  and- aecoodg y  - _ tu_l  su   ut        oldi
64  i.s)  Ied   chte   (6.  peaceg and ufr  as. prineotuge  ofmdya  prplo-                   LDCTcures       iglves
loton f10tli. 107. ad.  1900 da.ta.   p-._Adi  literac   rote1-.  (pcec -t                                                             irccdlafulcrcdn                       ie
copalaianb  Irueh doo.(percnt)  id.t  -tdoaoud grooc  rth         i n c.trial d-                  aaapro-tog of   totul&.  tdth populcyo  oga  15yar.n   over.                   c
populotian; 1060, 1070, and 1000 daca.                                             all i~~~~f ch  p.p1  .con7 vr piltr.   c   ..   ,b
Crde eti- rted (pe  ooh.     od -.i    th ou. eah  pr   hosndo  sdyecSabdoncoo(prtinch.or,t o)      l h.                                                 yycfk of rcoinrel org ad
popolto ;16. 1-2070. and  1900.t  o data.bcedcfunf_eouul pbli  pe.thono                                                                              C ofpnpiut occldndn
tr tsdpdctera-Aogrubc fdogtotaosn11hori 1_ icord-t. caceiver  i  coIctrora andc ityrur ohm rPegini_tIu  of_ radot
herrona   erdcIIvs            I icd if d s      he eoprio h.e present . ag y- p.pi Iti.fr.rnenl   fet   aafrrcetynnmynthcntrbeic
nil  orrid asen  n nae aod  gru.Wcotadino of-"daily gdno io icooiesuprddflr  ueproia
Pc q. ". .~~~~~~~cjco;t.lll                                               l~~~~obll cntiu   denote  primrilyco  ncnrdI-tg   roalnu.Iti   orie
row  cn  icnovascue    oil    i  ioproroclentfou  cansnok
loden at   60 Pod 9roucio  po.   aia(OO7.d)-Ife   fprcpt   nul                                   Cnmadue          tedcocvCpt  per7YacdBonrd o  d.tu  s -1ber of
naioa   veae  rdoe  prce.t  - tigh1; 106-h)g.-1)0  cod 1000 dana.  Tdotol taboo Perc  (ihcuannd) -  popoolcill  ucio  yruon  icud
pe   ay vti      bo   upio    onrs  donsti  prdnt-, tpeg-lu                                        ecceprol;  00.170cd-00  eo
inasohold- Oevol; tonI-, 'd1070 ad 107 dta                                                           106,:d   107  and 1000. data.d       .Iti
Par  apit  unply o  p-oA go  e  -m par  dey)    Phtoi  cor    ofl beocpIca                  lantipntao       f late (protor -f utd sae  andr feal  - Purtictiput.ic  O
ne   oppy n  foo   oIds.   ret  uppl  offod  t  efne   o  above.fi go-                        -cc_ivityrte   r             -upo   at  ota,  malt, end romalo lpobf forc u
qullyn         .... fer all -y c...ua..enediohlsh1d6ho    1      970 provide9for                    ..tenpecbcoeeo  ttl, sole IId fea...utrovo   il0crrupo i
alfoni,ch--of16d grama  of otal _prtin_ pee dayi and 21f l grae  f   inlg an161  1070  an10dt.   These rrohon d-u lb                                             uticipaloarten
poa   prthn  ofb shlchg 115gue   hol4h4       nia p-ruh V.ithni-t.1Tes  stn-rflc  a  aen                              tucr  o   iepouain.odln   time  reod    A
cod;ae lse   tha  tire   of7 gnome. oftoa  pdeihnd2  gIoiffe   stndo rePosicirlorct
gord-  POf   d Plodvp;101-6.  07  and 1077 data,                                                    topil  the total..lobor forte.c
Pe  cnt o1ocdin oupol  from.  andimalno  pole  pt-frtot  supply efg foodc dde-l-i.
riedfrm   nnl  sd. p aise    -IAgrat; pro9ay;16-65 1        070y   c~od1) d ata.           ..uOf 0iOTOIOOTtIOO)-E11d-l  Ili                                    ol   .d
I-b"Pid (aaea 1- 1  doI'la,irtppteen)-Ouuadeh   e   honr   oPrel of Private CIcceer (bo th in  as  ad                                                       id   -   _ooivdhyrchs
e_  Reo   -  yo.1 to chidrnt  thpp is age. group. for mea  developn    en                            percen.g cPicheac 20.1  yrrre   pores .21p.rIoc  and.. porc Iti- pcrc
tresdu d    deriond.bl f-rslife  ."tables, 1060, p0)    d cr0 p108   d      Io. .o  hea -bolds.                        6~  90..   90 
oft agepe  thoutad liv   birhs  106.         07  undph."lg' 100dis                                   bett   ovryincom          f level  Is the  income  19c0l hobo whic a98  d.tim
knesto bef  rotor froncono  pr)ntd       ttl  ubn   ndrri     Om-etutoel  adevowie-  diet plus. oteiniol  e-odrqirmrsO 
her of. psotl (intil. frun P.and.. rual  w11ithresoUbc- scree    -te af                            Ifedahl-ie.       yq,,td                 p-       g.o         1Ib          -
harnecha.        te fld e' pe9t0rtd  1e977sa dtpeirge.  and- saitr P elu   asi,                    lniq,." reatv    poet dtn.           et   sortir    faeaepncpt
deso   her ft spendh dtspRepottauhepar  o  thei-           dayt  in fTchig thed                    peer".lt ,..   .t   i-t...
dem    t  garrote Doa-sl (ecfw tf neculdtie)-t tonPAl,  iten  and rurald   -f.o.i.-.   5.d6   . 
eate ,p f, psope (-ptli  co-e andrrl)nre  byti earely dfn foodldan
enid (.a.te-sate byt wUter-her systems -r th ass at pith prii sa....d sInt
.R.  c..  I~  ...,   - Pehid..iun dhivide   hr. go.,e fof prectiepggbysi-                                                         gresasirand-tetelSaranin:uto
ecisma dsnt.i- d frees  leiefi enhbl..   at60 not9ri0  tene98 t..                                  fosoihOsa...                                        ed   rohclcdeprten
H oEALTiH i9e   ena  Peow-VEplaiowdiiddAyGnstr  fTessisRa                                                                                                  Mp  00
Lifs End tgamete i             d      A"g godst.ses.ennrs   an.,   .l ocefuifsenu  end            h   -I..&l    c    p.iI    -                             - fP IyI-.
seeniagtunottacies



- 24 -                                   AN1JEX I
SIIRRA LEONE                                   Page  4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980181                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, 1972/73 constant prices)
1968/69-        1970/71-       1978/79        1979/80-
US$ Mln.       %                         1970/71          1977/78        1979/80       1980/81
GNP at Market Prices           1262.4       100.0                          7.4             0.9             3.7           0.5
Gross Domestic Investment       147.9        11.7                          1.1            -1.2           23.7          -21.5
Gross National Saving            14.7       - 1.2                           -             -6.8              -             -
Current Account Balance         176.4        14.0                           -               -               -             -
Exports of Goods, NFS           266.6        21.1                         -2.0            -2.0              -             -
Imports of Gcods, NFS           473.0        37.5                         1.5             -0.6             -              -
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81                                                     1
Value Added                 Labor Force                          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %               Mln.        %                          US $      _
Agricultuire                   344.2        30.9                .839    65.0                         410.2       47.5
Industry, Mining,              223.9        20.1                .219    17.0                        1022.3      118.4
Construction
Services                       546.9        .9.1                .206    16.0                        2654.8      307.5
Unallocated                      -           -                  .026     2.0
GDP Factor Cost               1113.8       100.0               1.290   100.0                         863.4      100.0
GDP Market Price              1232.4
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Le  Mln.)         % GDP (Market P.)
1980/81       1980/81  1978/79-
___ ________  _____ 1980/81
Current Receipts                     228.3            17.1      17.0
Curreut Expenditure                  246.3            18.4      17.8
Current Surplus                       -18.0          - 1.3      -0.8
Central Expenditure                    72.5            5.4       5.3
Extra budgetary Expenditures          53.5             4.7       5.7
Overall Deficit                     -154.0           -11.5    -11.8
External Financing                     32.4            2.4       4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              1975     1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982-/
(Million Le outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money         3/      91.6     111.9      136.2      179.3      214.5      260.8      267.6      324.5
Bank credit to Public Sector-'       56.7      107.3      119.7      182.4      252.5      333.3      463.9      539.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector        41.1       43.7       46.8       64.9       71.0       90.4       99.3       98.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of         16.0      18.2       18.3       22.0       23.0       21.0       18.4       20.7
GDP (m.p.)
General Price Index (1975 =         100.0      117.2      130.8      140.8      170.7      189.6      233.8        -
100) 4/
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   19.9      17.2        8.3       10.9       21.2       11.1       23.3       21.2
Bank credit to Public Sector        146.5       89.2       11.6       52.4       38.4       32.0       39.2       16.4
Bank credit to Private Sector         3.5        6.3        7.1       38.6        9.4       28.0        9.2       -0.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/     Estimate of total labor force; unemplcyed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
2/     June 19R2
3/     Credit from the Banking System.
4/     Consumer Frince Index (Freetown).
.not available
.not applicable                                                                      November 30, 1982



-  25 -ANEXI
Page 5
SIERRA LEONE
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (US $ Million)
4/                            1973-75        1977/7t-
1978/79  1979180  1980/81  1981/8217                                               1980/817
(Millions US $)                                           Average  Z    Average   Z
Exports of Goods (FOB)           184.2    198.6    206.4    149.2             Minerals              99.1   74.1   107.6   67.1
Imports of Goods (FOB)         -251.7   -338.7   -373.1   -282.9                Diamonds            80.4   60.1    91.0   56.8
Trade Gap (deficit   -)         - 67.7   -140.2   -166.7   -128.7               Iron Ore            14.3   10.7       -      -
NFS (Net)                      - 20.4   - 16.6   - 19.4   - 16.6                Rutile                                8.2    5.1
Interest Payments (Net)                                                         Bauxite              4.4    3.3       8.4    5.2
Workers' Remittances  1                                                       Agr'l. Commod.        24.8   18.5    47.4   29.5
Other Factor Payments -l cet)- 46.1   - 62.3   - 41.4   - 44.1                  Coffee               7.8    5.8    23.0   14.4
Net Transfers                     19.7      32.8      51.1      30.6            Cocoa                8.2    6.1    20.4   12.7
-  -                               ~~~~~~~~~Palm kernels &  8.8    6.6    2.3    1.4
Balance on Current Account   -120.1   -186.4   -176.4   -158.8                   Prod.
Direct Foreign Investment         24.1      16.1   - 18.1       17.1          All other Commod-    9.9    7.4         5.9    3.7
Net MLT Borrowing                 32.5      14.0      57.7      19.5             ities             _____
Disbursements                 42.9      31.8      71.7      43.0                      Total    133.8  100.0   160.3  100.0
Amortization                - 10.4   - 17.8   - 13.9   - 23.6
Subtotal                      56.6      30.1      39.7      35.8
Capital Grants                                                                    EXTERNAL DEBT. April 30, 1982         US $ Mln
Other Capital (Net)               28.8      74.7      78.8      70.9
Other Items n.e.i. 2!             15.8      41.6      23.4     31.5                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    495.3
Increase in Reserves (+)       - 11.2   - 33.6   -  6.5   - 15.3                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt            -
Gross Reserves 3/                 34.5     46.7      30.6      14.6                 Total outstanding & Disbursed    388.3
Net Reserves   -/                                                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 -/           X
Public Debt. incl guaranteed         29.6
Fuel and Related Materials                                                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt            -
Imports                                                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed         29.6
of which: Petroleum          51.4      55.0      80.4       -
Exports                                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING (Sept. 30  1982)(Million US
of which: Petroleum
IBRD     IDA
RATE OF EXCHLANGE                                                                 Outstanding & Disbursed          18.7     69.3
Through  -  1971               US $/Leone Period Average                        Undisbursed                       0.0     29.8
US $ 1.00 =8297 L               1978/79 =  .950275                              Outstanding incl. Undis-        18.7      99.0
Le   1.00 ;US S1.2053          1979/80 =  .952850                                 bursed
Le   1.00   U   $1.2053 1980/81 -  .921050
1981/82 -  .832325
1/  Including Government n.e.i. and other services
2/  Includes Trust Fund Loan, Allocation of SDRs and errors and omissions
3/  End of starting year
4?/  Preliminary
37  Domestic Exnort
6/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.  Excludes debt servicing of arrears
($16.3 million in principal and $4.9 million in interest).
..not available
.not applicable
Nlovember 1982



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1983)
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year    Borrower         Purpose              Bank      IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Five Loans and Five Credits Fully Disbursed.         18.7        24.0
573    1975   Sierra Leone   Education II             -          7.3        0.37
970    1980   Sierra Leone   Technical Assistance  -             2.5        1.18
1094    1981   Sierra Leone   Eastern Agric.           -          9.9 2/    6.25 2/
1128    1981   Sierra Leone   Northern Agric.          -          7.5 2/    6.35 2/
1129    1982   Sierra Leone   Highways II              -          8.8 2/    7.45 2/
1265    1982   Sierra Leone   Power Sector Engr.
and T.A.             -          4.9       3.46
Total                                18.7        64.9       25.06
of which has been repaid            7.1         0.2
Total now outstanding                11.6        64.7
Amount sold          0.5
of which has
been repaid        0.5              0.0
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                    11.6        64.7
Total undisbursed                      0         25.06      25.06
1/   Net of Exchange Adjustments.
2/   Computed at exchange rate of 2/28/83.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1983)
(in US$ million
Fiscal Year   Obligator         Type of Business       Loan        Equity    Total
1980       Sierra Cement   Cement and Construc-   2.1              -       2.1
Manufacturing   tion materials
Company, Ltd.
(SERACEM)
Total Undisbursed       0.0                   0.0
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (Status as of February 28, 1983) I/
Credit No. 573-SL      Second Education Project:  US$7.25 million Credit of
July 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project was closed December 31, 1982, 18 months after the
original planned closing date. Disbursements will continue until about
June 30, 1983. Construction, furnishing and equipping of the project
institutions are completed. Most project institutions are in operation. The
EEC Special Action Credit has been fully disbursed and 92 percent of the IDA
Credit was disbursed by February 28, 1983. A completion mission is scheduled
for August-September, 1983.
Credit No. 970-SL      Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.5 million Credit of
February 8, 1980; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the Government's capability in
development planning, the preparation of development projects, the training of
local staff, and the monitoring and evaluation of public investment programs.
It includes: (a) 10 man-years of advisers; (b) 75 man-months of consultants;
(c) training in development plaanning and project preparation; and (d) project
preparation and prefeasibility studies. Project implementation has been under
way since the appointment of planning advisors in four ministries during the
second half of 1981. Progress towards institutional and training objectives
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
of the project has been slow due to national staff constraints and coordi-
nation problems. Studies on the organization of the agricultural sector
services, rural banking and seed multiplication have been completed and are
under review by the Government and IDA.
Credit No. 1094-SL    Eastern Integrated Agricultural Development Project III:
US$12.0 million Credit of February 13, 1981; Effective
date: September 16, 1981; Closing Date: September 30,
1986.
Project management and agricultural aspects of the project are
progressing reasonably well. However, future success is threatened by failure
of Government to provide all its required financial contribution. Integration
of the project unit and regular Ministry of Agriculture administration is also
behind schedule. Recent Government measures to raise producer prices for
export crops should help the project.
Credit No. 1128-SL    Northern Integrated Agricultural Development Project II:
US$8.5 million Credit of May 13, 1981; Effective
Date: October 15, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This project suffers from the same Government funding problem as the
Eastern one. Otherwise all components are proceeding well.
Credit No. 1129-SL    Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
October 29, 1981; Effective Date: February 3, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Two aspects of project implementation have improved: the Government
replenished the Special Account with a deposit of Le 600,000 in December 1982;
and the Ministry of Works has now turned over 90 percent of the equipment
which it agreed to the project. However, the budget problem may well reappear
in the future due to the Government's financial difficulties. Project imple-
mentation continues to be slow due primarily to the shortage of Government
funds, delays in the handover of MOW equipment to the project, and the slow
procurement of African Development Fund-financed equipment and spare parts.
The Credit Agreement will eventually need to be modified to take into account
the Government's reduced equipment contribution, and the final work program.
Credit No. 1265-SL    Power Sector Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project: US$5.0 million Credit of July 8, 1982;
Effective Date: December 3, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project became effective in December, 1982. Procurement has
begun. The National Power Authority, which is executing the project, has
severe financial problems which will be addressed during project implemen-
tation.



- 29 -
AINEX III
Page 1
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) time taken to prepare project: 16 months
(b)  agency which prepared project:  Government with UINESCO assistance
(c) date of first IDA mission to consider the project: March 1980
(d) date of appraisal mission: January/February 1982
(e) date of completion of negotiations: February 14, 1983
(f) planned date of effectiveness: July 15, 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
Deposit Advance of US$250,000 from Credit proceeds in
Special Account.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to submit by December 31, 1983, for review and comment
by IDA, plan to reduce duration of primary school from seven to six
years and to increase pupil/teacher ratio from 35:1 to 45:1, and
prepare a progress report on execution and review the conclusions
with IDA by December 31, 1985 (para. 41);
(b) Sites for primary school and staff housing construction program to be
selected and submitted to IDA for approval by December 31, 1983 (para.
47);
(c) Government to see that land is available to construct project
facilities and furnish evidence satisfactory to IDA that land rights
are available for teachers' college prior to invitations to bid
(paras. 47 and 49);
(d) Textbook task force to be established and advisory committee appointed
by August 31, 1983 (para. 52);
(e) Government to submit to IDA for review and comment by June 30, 1985
study and appropriate documentation on proposed textbook service, and
establish service by June 30, 1986 (para. 53);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) Government to submit by August 31 of each year, for review and
approval by IDA, program and cost estimates for workshop program
(para. 54);
(g) Government to submit to IDA by August 31 each year detailed
plans for and report on use of inspectorate staff travel funds
(para. 54);
(h) Government to furnish to IDA by December 31, 1983, for review and
comment, plan to strengthen Planning Unit and start implementation
not later than July 1, 1985 (para. 55);
(i) Fellowships to be awarded to staff in established positions in the
Planning Unit (para. 55);
(j) Fellowships to be awarded to suitably qualified persons to
participate in training programs satisfactory to IDA (para. 55).
(k) Conclusions and recommendations of teacher training, textbook use,
and textbook impact studies to be submitted before December 31, 1986
to IDA for review and comment (para. 56);
(1) Government to make adequate provision in its recurrent budget to
cover incremental costs of the project and ensure adequate staffing
of project institutions (para. 61);
(m)  Government to:  (i) open Special Account for advances from IDA
(condition of effectiveness); and (ii) deposit Le 100,000 into a
separate Project Fund (condition of effectiveness) and replenish it
on a quarterly basis (para. 62); and
(n) Government to make satisfactory arrangements to obtain the ODA
grant (condition of effectiveness, para. 72).



I BRD 16404R
7   lu  2                                                                                            MARCH 1983
SIERRA LEONE
THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                               60/6p-Coy classroo,s/staff houses
*      Textbook stores
L   Freet.on  feachers college
KILO.ETER5 0    Ic   20   30   40   5C   60   70   !o
..           P_ ,,, .                                                                                                                                                                    codr
AlOES &        10       20       30       41)       Sc                                                                                                 -        Poved   lp mcry cnd seconsory
--              ----         -Lo,paoecl                                                         0
;E~     t        -       -   Feede  oods I
G     U     I   N     E    A                                                                                                                              4\A rst,ps
{ \, \ j . \ R v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ers
DS,tr ct boundrl,es
~n. \..   -  Provn, fl'  nCOndcE es
_  J /  _  --It iernofiorcl boundor es
C,                      t                               t e 1u' Kom,.,  _   ___  _  ____ ___ _AA
G  U  I N  E  A
PR  OV T         E N          Eo/ i2                                                    ----
'\ ) <    - '  @    w    - - -- -- 1 ~~~~~~~P R d V rAx    '         
HvW          Itcn    KeeAD   ST ER IMC T
WEATIE                    AJIA A " (i S  R  c ,
Menr.                                  ME                                               N NKG|  I     
MQYAMBA -  '   -==+__\                                                                       , 80  DIS TRICT K EN.EMA _l/ soEnDISTR
UITRE                                                              40/6 ! '
POTL      8        70 /9                                                       RICT410 3                                                       4.4 45  4                      7
- - . B ON T,3H E D I ST ~~~R I  Tm \ j +4   
~~   -~~                                                                                                                            4104141450.4411414~M.   -
L-N GrL     I  INrA   1,        C            fI ero,
OSSRA fE NE   r 1 t SOA5E zG4ANA8>O1   =IEU-                                                            i      i      ? X- wWs  
FREETOWN'                  s     -



