Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16077
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJET
(Credit 2444-GUI)
October 18, 1996
Private Sector Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guinean franc (GNF)
US$1.00 = GNF 923  (August 1992)
US$1.00 = GNF 1000  (October 18, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CP                Contrat-Programme (Performance contract)
DBE               Direction du Bureau d 'Eludes
DCA               Development Credit Agreement
DNSPF             Direction Nationale des Services Postaux et Financiers
DNT               Direction Nationale des Tielcommunications
GOG               Government of Guinea
ITU               Intemational Telecommunication Union
MC                Ministry of Communication, renamed Ministry of Post and Telecommunications in 1992
MOP               Memorandum of the President
OPG               Office de la Poste Guineenne
PATSEP            Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Pnrvatization Technical Assistance Project
PE                Public Enterprise
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
SOTELGUI          Societe des TeIecommunications de Guin~e
TA                Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ i
Evaluation  Summary-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Background----------------------------------------------------------1--------------------------------- 
B.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives---------------------------------------1----------------------- 
C. Achievement of Objectives---------------------------------------------------------------------------  2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project----------------------------------------------------------------  6
E.  Project Sustainability ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------  7
F.  Bank Performance-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  7
G.  Borrower Performance -------------------------------------------------------------------------------  8
H.  Assessment of Outcome------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 8
I.   Future Operations -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  8
J.  Key Lessons Learned ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------  8
PART II-- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1   : Summary of Assessments ------------------------------------------------------------------ 10
Table 2   : Related Bank Loans/Credits ---------------------------------------------------------------12
Table 3         Project Timetable---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13
Table 4    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ---------------------------13
Table 5   : Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation  ----------------------------14
Table SA: SOTELGUI's Technical Performance Indicators --------------------------------------14
Table 5B:  OPG's Technical Performance Indicators -----------------------------------------------14
Table 6          Studies Included in Project----------------------------------------------------------------- 15
Table 7          Project Costs ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Table 8   : Project Financing---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
Table 9          Status of Legal Covenants------------------------------------------------------------------ 17
Table  10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ------------------------------------------------------------ 30
Table  11:  Bank Resources: Staff Missions ---------------------------------------------------------- 3 1
APPENDICES -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 32
A. Mission's Aide-M6moire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Map IBRD 27383
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Post and Telecommunications
Technical Assistance Project in Guinea, for which Credit 2444-GUI in the amount of SDR 10.00 million
(US$ 14.60 million equivalent) was approved on January 21, 1993 and made effective on August 27, 1993.
The Credit closed on April 30, 1995, four months behind schedule. The last disbursement took place on
August 21, 1996, at which time a balance of US$ 3.00 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jean-Michel N. Happi, Industry and Energy Division, Western
Africa Department, Africa Region, with the assistance of Mr. Svetoslav Tintchev, Telecommunications and
Informatics Division, Industry and Energy Department, Finance and Private Sector Development. It was
reviewed by Mr. H. Harald Burmeister, Portfolio Manager, Mrs. Silvia B. Sagari, Sector Operations
Division Chief, and Mr. Emmerich S. Schebeck, Project Adviser. The Borrower provided comments that
are included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission of January
29 to February 4, 1996. It is based on materials in the Project file, including the Memorandum of the
President (MOP), Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reviews and
monitoring reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by supplying
the views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and its evaluation of the Project's performance.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                           Cr. 2444-GUI
Credit Amount:                           SDR 10.0 million (US$ 14.6 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                            Ministry of Communication, Societe des Teldcommunications
de Guinee (SOTELGUI), and Office de la Poste Guineenne
(OPG)
Date effective:                          August 27, 1993
Date closed:                             April 30, 1995
Background
i.     Until 1991, Guinea's postal and telecommunications activities were managed as ministerial
departnents within the Ministry of Communication (MC). These departments operated the facilities and
provided services with no commercial autonomy and inadequate management systems. They had no budget
control, financial management, or accounting system.   Postal operations were inefficient and
underdeveloped.  The Government decided, in 1990, to modernize and restructure its postal and
telecommunications services, with a view to operating them on a commercial basis. In August 1991, it
adopted a Statement of Sector Policy for both post and telecommunications, as a guide for restructuring the
sector.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
ii.    The main objectives of this Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project were to
assist the Government in the restructuring of the postal and telecommunications sector and to improve the
quality of service provided and the sector's financial performance. In line with these objectives, the Project
included the following components: (i) revision of the sectoral regulatory environment; (ii) reorganization of
the MC; (iii) establishment of a telecommunications company, Societe des Telecommunications de Guin6e
(SOTELGUI), and strengthening of its management and the search for private partners; (iv) establishment
of a public postal enterprise, Office de la Poste Guin&enne (OPG), and strengthening of its management;
(v) engineering studies; (vi) an operation and maintenance component; and (iv) a training program.
ill.    Project objectives were realistic, clear and defined by operational measures. They could be
achieved within the Project's initial three-year implementation period. Project objectives related to the
strengthening of OPG and SOTELGUI operations were quantified by technical performance indicators,
which facilitated their close monitoring and review. The Project's legal covenants were comprehensive and
instrumental in achieving the objectives. However, the objective to build an effective policy-making and
regulatory capacity within the MC was overly ambitious. Such capacity building typically requires longer
periods, particularly in countries lacking experience, relevant skills, and a tradition of public-utility
regulation.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    The overall outcome of the Project is satisfactory. The Government has established a new
regulatory environment for the postal and telecommunications sector. The MC was reorganized in a timely
and satisfactory fashion. It has formed a new Directorate of Post and Telecommunications with principal
responsibilities for setting sector policies, regulation, and supervisory functions. The new legislation has
also maintained a high degree of MC control over key operational issues, through utility agreements (cahier
des charges) to be signed by all postal and telecommunications companies operating in Guinea. The
Project provided substantive training for the MC's technical staff and financed studies to strengthen its
regulatory and supervisory capacity. However, the MC's capacity has remained weak, mainly due to
insufficient practical experience and relevant expertise of its staff.
v.     OPG was set up in mid- 1992 as a public company with autonomy to manage the mail. The Project
financed the services of a specialized consulting firm which managed OPG for the 17 months and helped
set up its commercial organization and structure. The firm also provided in-depth, formal and on-the-job
training to their Guimean counterparts, in order to build sustainable local capacity. Since January 1995,
OPG has been fully managed by Guinean staff who steadily improved its performance. It has rebuilt
reliability and public confidence in its postal services.
vi.   Improvements in OPG's operations and financial situation were slower than originally expected.
OPG has continued to incur severe operating losses which amounted to over GNF 431 million and GNF
506 million in 1994 and 1995, respectively. Implementation of its operations and maintenance objective
was hampered by, inter alia, the delays in preparing acceptable bidding documents for the procurement of
essential equipment by the MC. A forceful restructuring of its operations needs to be implemented within
the framework of its performance contract to reduce the burden of OPG losses on public finances.
vii.   SOTELGUI was created as a mixed public/private company in 1992 and granted exclusive rights
to operate basic services (fixed domestic and international telephone and telex) for an initial period of ten
years. The legislation also established a regulated partnership between SOTELGUI and the MC and
encouraged competition in new and value-added services. Already, several independent cellular phone
companies operate successfully in Guinea. The corporatization of SOTELGUI was timely and successful.
SOTELGUI met or exceeded most of its technical and financial performance targets. However, it has
suffered from its inability to collect overdue bills from Government which needed to take repeated recourse
to cross-debt compensations in order to clear its arrears with SOTELGUI.
viii.   The Governnent signed a joint-venture agreement with a private partner in December 1995 for the
privatization of SOTELGUI. Pursuant to this agreement, SOTELGUI's capital was increased from US$
30 million to US$ 75 million in January 1996. The Government's shareholding was reduced to 40% of the
capital (US$ 30 million), representing the value of SOTELGUI's assets; 60% of SOTELGUI's capital
(US$ 45 million) went to the private partner and was paid for in cash in March 1996. This partner
assumed all management responsibilities at that time. Under this agreement, SOTELGUI will, inter alia,
invest over US$ 100 million to increase its customer base from the current 13,000 to 100,000 main lines
over the next five years. It will further modernize and expand its network to 500,000 main lines by the year
2010. SOTELGUI will also implement an ambitious human resource development program, without staff
retrenchment. However, the joint-venture agreement was concluded after an unsatisfactory bidding process
lacking transparency, which could be detrimental to the international credibility of both this operation and
the Government's overall divestiture program. Concerns have also been raised about the agreement's anti-
competitive provisions.



iv
ix.    The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Its design of the Project was appropriate and
responsive to the country's postal and telecommunications reform needs. The Bank undertook a total of six
supervision missions and maintained a continuing dialogue with the Borrower on key implementation
issues. Its liaison with the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and bilateral donors supporting
reform of the postal and telecommunications sectors was fruitful, particularly in training, network planning,
and modemization of facilities.
x.     Borrower performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, but less satisfactory during
implementation. The main points of non-compliance with covenants of the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) included: (i) unavailability of counterpart funds; (ii) no operation of the special account; (iii) failure
to pay promptly for Government's use of postal and telecommunications services; (iv) failure to carry out
timely and satisfactory audits of both the enterprises' and the Project's accounts; and (v) insufficient
adjustments of the postal and telecommunications tariffs.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xi.    The benefits of the Project are significant. The postal and telecommunications sectors have been
restructured, the MC reorganized, SOTELGUI privatized, and OPG commercialized. Future operations
would enhance sustainability of these achievements by focusing on, inter alia, (i) improving sector
competition and regulatory framework, in order to encourage further private participation in the
development of services open to competition, (ii) strengthening the MC's capacity in sector policy
formulation, regulation, and supervision; (iii) implementing SOTELGUI's business plan, by its new private
partner; and (iv) ensuring sustainable rehabilitation in OPG by pressing for consistent improvement of its
management and adequately compensating the enterprise for the unprofitable public services it performs on
behalf of the Government.
xii.    The Government would monitor these operations within the framework of the revised utility
agreement (Cahier des Charges) to be signed with SOTELGUI's private partner, and the multi-year
performance contract (Contrat-Programme) to be signed with OPG. These arrangements provide a frame
of reference for the mutual obligations of Government and both enterprises and enhance the prospects for
sustainable success. Their effectiveness in the long run will depend on Government's ability to closely
monitor and enforce them, particularly the regulation of SOTELGUI's monopoly.
xiii.   Four main lessons can be drawn from the Project implementation experience: First, a ministry with
vested interests in a public enterprise should not be in charge of the divestiture of the enterprise. The MC
continues to have such interests in SOTELGUI and an inclination to maintain a strong patronage over its
operations. The capital ownership structure as initially decided by the Government, the high degree of
regulatory discretion retained by the MC, and the lack of transparency surrounding the privatization of
SOTELGUI reflect the complications and less than optimal solutions that are the result of vested interests.
Second, it is essential to assess the feasibility of social equity and universal coverage objectives during the
design of post and telecommunications sector reform  projects.  Third, the best way to improve
telecommunications service quality, coverage, and regulation is to open the sector to competition and not
protect the incumbent company, whether public or private. Finally, if it is necessary to grant some
exclusive rights (to attract qualified foreign investors, for exarnple), such rights should be precisely defined
and granted for a limited period of time. The decision to grant SOTELGUI a ten-year exclusive concession
on basic services, with a possibility of extension, was not appropriate.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background
1.    Until 1991, Guinea's postal and telecommunications activities were managed as ministerial
departnents by the Directorate of Postal and Financial Services (DNSPF) and the Directorate of
Telecommunications (DNT), respectively, within the Ministry of Communication (MC). These departments
operated the facilities and provided services with no commercial autonomy and inadequate management
systems. Their investments and operating deficits were funded by the Government, and their cash was
managed as part of the Treasury's resources. There were no budget controls, financial management, or
accounting systems. Services were provided to satisfy only one-quarter of the estimated sustainable
demand with 1.1 line per 1,000 inhabitants. Postal operations were inefficient and underdeveloped.
2.    Against this background, the Government of Guinea (GOG) decided, in 1990, to modernize and
restructure the postal and telecommunications services, with a view to operating them commercially. In
August 1991, it adopted a Statement of Sector Policy to guide the restructuring of the postal and
telecommunications sector. In March 1992, it organized a donors' meeting to seek support for its planned
sector reform.
3.    The Government's reforms were consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy in Guinea, which
aimed at improving economic efficiency by removing obstacles to private sector development, improving
governance, and building a sound human resource base. The Bank advocated the revitalization of the
postal and telecommunications sector, given its essential role in the development of Guinea's economy. It
also stressed Government responsibility for sector policy and regulation, and the importance of runmning
operations under commercial and corporate rules, within a competitive environment. The IDA-assisted
Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project was intended to help the GOG carry out its
responsibility in the postal and telecommunications sector.
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
4.     The main objectives of the Project were to assist the Government in the restructuring of the postal
and teleconmmunications sector and to improve the quality of services and the sector's financial
performance. The immediate targets were to establish an appropriate institutional framework, develop the
networks, provide reliable basic services, and then open the sector to regulated competition, by adopting
policies designed to ensure efficient and reliable standards.
5.    The Project had five components. The first component, for sector regulatory and institutional
reforms, included: (a) revision of the regulatory environment for the postal and telecommunications sector;
(b) reorganization of the MC; (c) establishment of a telecommunications company, Societe des



2
Telecommunications de Guinee (SOTELGUI), and a public postal establishment, Office de la Poste
Guin&enne (OPG), as public enterprises (PEs) and strengthening their management through expert
management teams. The second component, for privatization, included preparatory work for SOTELGUI's
divestiture and the search for private partners. The third component, for engineering studies, included the
preparation of studies for priority telecommunications and postal investments. The fourth component, for
operations and maintenance, included the supply of spare parts, materials, and critical equipment necessary
to restore basic and reliable telecommunications and postal services. The fifth component, for training,
aimed at improving the skills of MC, OPG, and SOTELGULI technical staffs.
6.     Project objectives were appropriate, clear, and defined by operational measures. They could be
achieved within the Project's three-year implementation period.  Specific objectives related to the
strengthening of OPG and SOTELGUI operations were expressed in terms of technical performance
indicators, which facilitated their close monitoring and review.  The Project's legal covenants were
comprehensive and instrumental in achieving the objectives. However, the objective aiming to build an
effective policy-making and regulatory capacity within the MC was overly ambitious. Such capacity
building typically requires longer periods, particularly in countries lacking experience, relevant skills, and
the tradition of public-utility regulation.
7.     The Project was fully responsive to reforms in both the PE and the postal and telecommunications
sectors in Guinea. Its implementation was facilitated by the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PATSEP - Cr. 2398-GUI) under implementation from 1992 to
1995. The PATSEP was to provide a suitable framework and institutional commitment to carry out
commercialization and divestiture reforms. However, it did not meet these expectations for SOTELGUI's
privatization because its privatization process was unsatisfactory (paras. 19-22).
8.    A critical risk associated with the Project was the weak implementation capacity in the MC. This
risk was partially overcome thanks to Government's effective commitment to restructuring the sector and
consistent Bank supervision. There were also uncertainties about the privatization of SOTELGUI, in
particular, the considerable risk that it might fail to attract suitable investors. However, after several
attempts and a difficult bidding process, SOTELGUI was finally privatized. Another risk was that the
Government would not make its counterpart funds available in a timely manner.
C.    Achievement of Major Objectives
9.     The Project achieved mixed results in meeting its objectives. No criteria for judging the Project's
overall output had been established at the outset, although objectives relating to OPG and SOTELGUI
reorganizations were quantified.
(1) Sector Regulatory and Institutional Reforms
10.   Implementation of the elements of this component was substantial in most respects:
(a)    Revision of the regulatory environment for the postal and telecommunications sector. The
revision became effective on June 2, 1992, once the Government signed the new laws on
Telecommunications and Postal Services and the decrees authorizing the creation of OPG and SOTELGUI.
OPG was set up as a public company with autonomy to manage the mail service. SOTELGUI was
established as a mixed public/private company with statutes similar to those of the private sector and was
granted the exclusive right to operate basic services (fixed domestic and international telephone and telex)
for an initial period of ten years. The new legislation maintained a high degree of Government regulatory



3
control over key issues, such as the development of competition in new and value-added services and
operational matters, through utility agreements with these companies. The transfer of operations, assets,
and personnel from DNT and DNSPF to SOTELGUI and OPG, respectively, was completed by 1994.
11.   (b)    Reorganization of the Ministrv of Communication.  Reorganization of the MC was
implemented in a timely and satisfactory manner. The MC formed a new directorate of post and
telecommunications with principal responsibilities for setting sector policies, regulations, and supervision.
The Project provided substantive training to the MC's technical staff and financed relevant studies (e.g., on
tariffs and on the regulation of cellular telephones) to strengthen its regulatory and supervisory capacity.
However, MC capacity has remained weak, because staff did not gain sufficient practical experience and
relevant expertise. The authority of the MC was also undermined by conflicting decisions within the
Government, as a result of which several licenses (e.g. for cellular telephones) were granted to private
operators temporarily outside the prevailing legal framework. The formal reorganization of the MC was
substantially achieved, but the Project underestimated the difficulties and time required to develop a strong
and effective regulatory capacity that has yet to be established.
12.   (c. 1)  Strengthening of SOTELGUI.  The Project financed the services of a specialized
consulting firm which helped set up SOTELGUI's corporate organization, with all the relevant
management systems and procedures, including technical operations, finance and accounting, billing and
collection, procurement and inventory of all assets, marketing, setting of tariffs, human resource
development, and logistics and planning. The consulting firm managed SOTELGUI for the first 18
months. It also provided on-the-job and formal training to its Guinean counterparts to build national
capacity which would be sustainable when the technical assistance (TA) ended.  All management
responsibilities were transferred to Guinean staff by December 1994, marking the successful termination of
this assistance. SOTELGUI's performance has improved steadily and the corporatization was timely and
successful.
13.    SOTELGUI met or exceeded most of its technical performance targets. Its main operational
performance indicators and their achievement are detailed in Part II (Table 5.A). The Project's physical
objectives, though modest, were successfully implemented. From 1992 to 1996, the number of subscriber
lines in service increased more than 85% to 13,000. The objectives set for traffic-flow performance were
also met. The rate of calls completed from Conakry reached 70%, as forecast at the outset. This was
made possible by the implementation of the fiber optics component of the backbone network and
digitalization of switching facilities. The quality and reliability of services improved; the number of faults
per line over a 12-month period fell between 1993 and 1995 from 5 to 1.6, as targeted.
14.    SOTELGUI's financial situation also improved significantly. The company adopted a corporate
accounting system and computerized its key operations, including service billing and collection. It was
allowed to increase its tariffs by 10% in 1993 and 13% in 1994 in order to adjust for increased operational
costs. Its recovery rate on billings rose from 35% in 1993 to 90% in 1995, exceeding the target by 5%.
Its financial results improved from a GNF 222.75 million loss incurred in 1993-94 to a GNF 1.67 billion
net profit in 1995.
15.    Despite these gains, the issue of overdue bill payments from the Government remains unresolved.
Although by 1995 the GOG had reduced its telephone line connections by over 50% to about 700 as
compared with 1992, the high amount of unpaid bills has continued to affect SOTELGUI's liquidity
negatively. For instance, Government arrears to the company in 1994 totaled GNF 1.2 billion, averaging
almost 1.4 months of revenues. Many public agencies still fail to pay their bills and the Government
needed repeated recourse to cross-debt settlements in order to clear its arrears with SOTELGUI. Even



4
though SOTELGUI was given full authority to suspend services to defaulting subscribers, such actions
proved difficult to enforce in the case of certain public users. To avoid recurrence of sustained arrears, the
Government needs to improve its budget process to ensure more realistic budget allocations to cover its use
of telecommunications services.
16.   (c.2)  Strengthening of OPG. The Project financed the services of a specialized consulting firm
which helped set up OPG's commercial organization and structure, including its procedures for accounting
and finance, marketing, and human resource development. The firm managed OPG for the first 17 months,
and provided on-the-job training to its local counterparts to ensure an effective transfer of expertise. OPG
has been fully managed by Guinean staff since January 1995. It has reestablished reliability and public
confidence in its services. Further improvement is expected from the introduction of tracing systems that
will ensure prompt and more secure mail delivery.
17.   Improvements in OPG's operations and financial condition have been slower than expected. Its
main technical performance indicators are detailed in Part II (Table 5.B). OPG streamlined its network by
closing 29 of 69 post offices, but it has continued to incur severe operating losses that burden state
finances. OPG's losses were over GNF 431 million and GNF 506 million in 1994 and 1995, respectively.
Only two of the 40 post offices in operation were profitable. The Government has maintained this network
on the grounds that postal services are essential for the country's development and that they must also serve
the needs of the low-income population in rural areas.
18.   Many important tasks designed to improve OPG's performance were not completed. These include
the installation of a computerized accounting and management system, annual budget planning for
activities, timely auditing of OPG's accounts, change of OPG's employees' status from Civil Service to the
Labor Code (which governs PE personnel), and the introduction of more flexible personnel and incentive
policies. In addition, the GOG did not regularly pay for its use of OPG's services. These several tasks will
need to be carried out and monitored within the framework of OPG's performance contract in order to
improve efficiency. This contract was prepared under the Project and should be implemented soon.
(2) Privatization of SOTELGUI
19.   The initial search for a long-term partnership for SOTELGUI was conducted with the support of a
consulting firm which prepared the bidding documents and provided advice on the privatization strategy.
The Government, however, discontinued this assistance before the negotiation phase. Implementation of
this component was unsatisfactory.
20.   Government's original divestiture approach was to keep at least 51% of SOTELGUI's capital-
stock, sell at least 40% to a private investor who would also manage the company, and sell the remaining
shares to local (Gumean) investors. Such an ownership structure was less than optimal; it gave a wrong
signal on the Government's real desire to attract private capital and management to SOTELGUI, and
discouraged potential investors from entering into this partnership. A decision, at the outset, to reduce
State shareholdings to a minority share, including the sale of a percentage of shares to domestic investors,
would have dissipated this concern.
21.   The bidding process for the partial privatization was launched in November 1994. Until January
1995, only three bids had been received. The Government found this number insufficient, and decided to
extend the deadline for bids twice, for a total of five months. Finally, it received five offers in all, but found
none of them acceptable. In parallel with this competitive selection process, the Government entered into
negotiations with a sixth company, with which it signed a joint-venture agreement in December 1995,



5
without reference to the bidding process. The overall conduct of this privatization was inappropriate; it
lacked transparency and could be detrimental to the international credibility of both this operation and the
entire divestiture program. Concems were also raised about the agreement's anti-competitive provisions.
22.   Pursuant to the joint-venture agreement, SOTELGUI's capital was increased from US$ 30 million
to US$ 75 million in January 1996. The Government's shareholding was reduced from 100% to 40% of
this capital (US$ 30 million), representing the value of SOTELGUI's assets. The remaining 60% of
SOTELGUI's capital (US$ 45 million) went to the private partner who paid fully in cash in March 1996
and assumed all management responsibilities since that time. Under this agreement, SOTELGUI will, inter
alia, invest over US$ 100 million to increase its customer base, from the current 13,000 main lines to
100,000 over the next five years. It will further modernize and expand its network to 500,000 main lines
by the year 2010, with total investments in excess of US$ 1 billion. SOTELGUI will also implement an
ambitious human resource development program, without staff retrenchment. As of today, implementation
of these investments and staff development plans are progressing well. Telecommunications services have
steadily improved. Over 7.000 new lines and 4 VSAT stations are being installed. The Government signed
a utility agreement (Cahier des Charges) with SOTELGUI, which provides a frame of reference of their
mutual obligations.
(3) Engineering Studies
23.   This component was to provide a complete analysis and design for the modernization and operation
of the telecommunications network of Greater Conakry. The objective of this component has been
substantially achieved. Following the recommendations of the studies, the Conakry switching facilities
have been partially replaced by more powerful and efficient equipment resulting in a sharp increase in the
interswitching transmission and distribution capacity and connection of new subscribers. The Project also
financed preparatory engineering studies for the future expansion and modernization of SOTELGUI's
network and services, to be implemented after its privatization became effective.
(4) Improvement of Operations and Maintenance
24.   This component aimed to provide SOTELGUI and OPG with spare parts, computers, and other
critical equipment. Its implementation was delayed by about one year, due to the time required to assess
the most urgent needs for spare parts and equipment. It was also hampered by delays in the availability of
Government counterpart funds. The most important equipment for SOTELGUI was delivered. However,
essential equipment for OPG's operations was not procured because of delays in preparation of satisfactory
bidding documents by the MC. In sum, achievement of the objectives for this component was only partial.
(5) Training Program and Staff Redeployment
25.   This component aimed at: (a) strengthening the capacity of the MC to formulate and oversee sector
policy; (b) enabling SOTELGUI and OPG technical staff to operate modem data technology and
processing and improve their business skills; and (c) developing training and operational manuals and
procedures which would further serve as relevant basic references. Achievement of these objectives was
substantial in most aspects. Specialized training programs were prepared and implemented throughout the
Project. The organization and execution of training courses was satisfactory. The courses responded to
well-focused needs and were part of comprehensive human resource development strategies in both the MC
and the enterprises. Over 300 staff, including most managers and representing 12% of total staff, benefited
from these training programs. On-the-job training was also highly effective. This was mainly due to the



6
management experts who were in line positions in both enterprises and responsive to the specific and
monitorable terms of reference to train counterparts.
26.    The reorganization of the postal and telecommunications sectors did not directly result in job
reductions. Most of the 300 former employees of DNT and DNSPF, who were not selected to be part of
SOTELGUI and OPG, were maintained at the MC. A social plan to support their redeployment will be
carried out within the framework of the overall civil service reform program. OPG is still over-staffed and
both the Government and the agency need to start preparing a retrenchment plan to address this issue.
About 80% of DNT's former staff was transferred to SOTELGUI, which also recruited 90 new employees.
The company increased its employees' salaries by 50% in January 1994 as an incentive to improve
performance. Job opportunities were also created in the private sector (e.g., cellular phone firms).
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.   The factors which contributed to the shortfall in the achievement of certain Project objectives were
all subject to Government control. They included:
(i)    Government commitment: The Government demonstrated a strong sense of Project
ownership, but it failed to take some key actions. In particular, it did not make its counterpart
funds available in a timely manner, which delayed the procurement of essential equipment.
(ii)   Implementation effectiveness: The Direction du Bureau d'Etudes (DBE) under the MC,
which was the initial Project implementing unit, became a department of SOTELGUI after the
creation of this company. Project implementation was coordinated by the Minister of Post and
Telecommunications, with the support of a financial officer from SOTELGUI, but without any
formal executing agency. The Minister's direct involvement provided strong leadership to the
Project and facilitated the implementation of key sectoral reforms. However, the lack of clearly
defined implementation responsibilities was detrimental to the Project's management and planning,
the monitoring of its activities, and the maintenance of its accounts and records. Progress was
achieved in these areas only late in Project implementation.
(iii)   Management effectiveness and, in particular, problems in procurement: These problems
were due, in part, to the lack of experience and knowledge of Bank procurement procedures in both
OPG and SOTELGUI, and delays in preparing acceptable bidding documents by the MC. They
delayed execution of the Project's physical component by several months. Bank supervision and
specific procurement training of staff partially addressed these problems. The Bank extended the
Credit closing date mainly to enable the Borrower to complete the procurement of essential
equipment for these companies.
(iv)   Use of TA:  The Project's direct beneficiaries (MC, SOTELGUI, and OPG) made
effective use of the TA offered, both in terms of the transfer of expertise and implementation of
reforms. However, the Government decided not to take full advantage of the advisory services that
the Project provided to help carry out the SOTELGUI privatization. It benefited from the services
of a specialized consulting firm for the search of private partners for SOTELGUI but abruptly
discontinued this assistance before the negotiations phase without providing a credible explanation
for its action. The consultants' advice could have provided guidance to the Government in
analyzing offers and negotiating with prospective buyers. The Government's decision was seen, to
some extent, as an indication of reluctance to proceed with this privatization.



7
E.    Project Sustainability
28.   Prospects for sustainability are significant.   The SOTELGUI privatization and OPG
commercialization are sustainable. These companies are managed by better skilled and motivated
technicians to operate and maintain the assets. Already, the volume, quality, and coverage of postal and
telecommunications services have steadily increased. There is an emerging competition in new and value-
added services; several private cellular firms and express-mail services now successfully operate in Guinea.
29.   The long-term development of the sector will, however, depend on the effectiveness of the revised
utility agreement (Cahier des Charges) and the multi-year performance contracts (Contrat-programme) to
be signed between the Governnent, on the one hand, and SOTELGUI and OPG, respectively, on the other.
These arrangements will provide a frame of reference for the mutual obligations of Government and the
two enterprises. Their effectiveness in the long run will depend on GOG's ability to closely monitor and
enforce them, particularly the regulation of SOTELGUI's monopoly.
30.   To enhance the sustainability of these achievements, the MC should further strengthen its
institutional capacity, inter alia, in the following areas: (i) financial analysis of prices and costs, which are
central to pricing policy and regulation; (ii) assessment of service quality, investment programs, and
technical standards; (iii) preparation and monitoring of contracts and utility agreements; and (iv) telephone
frequency management and control. The GOG should also ensure that OPG improve its financial situation
by pressing for consistent management improvements and adequately and transparently compensating the
enterprise for the unprofitable services it performs on behalf of the Govermnent.
F.    Bank Performance
31.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Project had a prompt start-up thanks to the
comprehensive preparatory work that was carried out under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). During
project preparation, the Bank's main emphasis was on ensuring a clear separation of postal and
telecommunications services, establishing OPG and SOTELGUI as commercially operated firms, and
divestiture of the latter. However, much less emphasis was put on ensuring that the MC was effectively
able to perform its regulatory and supervisory functions. Thorough analysis was also missing on the
prerequisites for a well-functioning regulation of the sector, including the conditions to (a) define a level
playing field in liberalized market segments; (b) prevent extraction of rents on basic services under
monopoly; and (c) prevent SOTELGUI from setting interconnection constraints to cellular operators in
order to dissuade competition.
32.   Six supervision missions were conducted during the three-year implementation period. No mid-
term review was carried out, because it was not deemed necessary. Bank liaison with the International
Telecommnunication Union and bilateral donors supporting the reforms in Guinea's post and
telecommunications sectors was fruitful, particularly in the fields of training, network planning, and
modernization of facilities.



8
G.    Borrower Performance
33.    Borrower performance was satisfactory during project preparation, but less satisfactory during
implementation. The GOG carried out most of the sectoral reforms expected under the Project. Hbwever,
in several areas major deficiencies were encountered, including overall project management, OPG
rehabilitation, and the conduct of the privatization of SOTELGUI. The privatization process was impeded
by Government's reluctance to proceed according to the terms and procedures on which the GOG and the
Bank agreed within the framework of the PATSEP.
34.    The status of compliance with major covenants of the DCA is listed in Table 9 of Part II. Several
deficiencies occurred; these included delays in the provision of counterpart funds; failure to operate the
special account which hampered the planning and execution of Project's activities; continued accumulation
of GOG arrears with SOTELGUI; non-compliance with covenants requiring GOG's appropriate budgeting
for, and prompt payment of, its use of postal and telecommunications services and with covenants requiring
timely and satisfactory auditing of the accounts of both enterprises and the Project; and last, but not least,
insufficient adjustments to the postal and telecommnunications tariffs.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
35.   The overall outcome of the Project is satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following: (i)
the successful implementation of key institutional reforms, including the separation of postal and
teleconmmunications services, reorganization of the MC to implement new regulatory and supervisory
functions, and the establishment of OPG and SOTELGUI as commercially operated companies; (ii) the
satisfactory completion of engineering studies, which helped design a plan for SOTELGUI's future
operations and investment; (iii) partial achievement of the physical operation and maintenance objectives;
and (iv) sustainable capacity-building through the introduction of modem management systems and
extensive on-the-job as well as formal training of technical staff. These achievements outweigh the
unsatisfactory results with respect to OPG's performance and SOTELGUI's privatization process.
I.     Future Operations
36.    Future operations may focus, inter alia, on (i) improving competition and the regulatory
framework in the postal and telecommunications sector (more in-depth studies and sector policy reforms
are required to encourage further private participation in the development of postal and telecommunications
services that are open to competition); (ii) strengthening MC's capacity in policy formulation, regulation,
and supervision; (iii) implementing SOTELGUI's business plan devised by its new private partner,
including the company's investment and human resources development plans; and (iv) ensuring sustainable
rehabilitation in OPG.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
37.    Four main lessons can be drawn from this Project:
(a)  Divestiture. A ministry with vested interests in a PE should not be put in charge of the divestiture
of the enterprise. Indeed, the MC continues to have such interests in SOTELGUI and the
inclination to maintain a strong patronage over its operations. The capital ownership structure as
initially decided by the GOG, the high degree of regulatory discretion retained by the MC, and the
lack of transparency surrounding the privatization of SOTELGUI, reflect the complications and
less than optimal solutions that are the result of vested interests.



9
(b)  Social Equity Considerations. It is essential to assess the feasibility of social equity and universal
coverage objectives during the design of telecommunications sector reforms. The GOG decided to
privatize SOTELGUI, keeping its exclusive rights on basic telephone services intact. The original
purpose of this monopoly was to establish a cross-subsidy scheme, under which income from
international calls would provide resources to support and maintain the local telephone system. Its
rationale was that both social equity and universal access to telecommunications services were
major long-term objectives of the Government's sector policy. If the Project were being designed
today, the relevance of the cross-subsidy system and the rationale for the duration of this monopoly
would be seen in a different light. Subsidizing rates for local telephone service was not the best
way to ensure universal access.
(c)  Competition.  The best way to improve telecomniuncations service quality, coverage, and
regulation is to open the sector up to competition rather than to protect the existing company from
it, whether the company is public or private. If a cross-subsidy system is required to achieve social
goals, direct subsidies within a competitive market could be more appropriate than a monopoly.
For instance, by raising direct taxes on private companies providing international telephone
service, the Government would be able to finance the losses of the basic local network until it could
be made profitable. The Government could thus achieve its social goals, while promoting greater
competition and better overseas telephone (and long-distance) services, with more transparent tariff
regulation.
(d) Exclusivitv. If it is necessary to grant some exclusive rights, for example, to attract qualified
foreign investors, such rights should be precisely defined and granted for a limited period of time.
The decision to grant SOTELGUI a ten-year-period of exclusive concession on basic services, with
a possibility of extension, was not appropriate. This long duration raises the risk that the public,
fixed network which has the benefits of exclusive rights, will be left behind by new technologies,
and/or that customers reliant on this network (e.g., residential users, government, and rural
customers) will be left to support an under-used network, while business customers opt for the new
or value-added service providers. The fact that several cellular telephone firms have been
successfully operating in Guinea and that cellular service is increasingly seen as a substitute for the
basic phone service over the fixed network, gives credibility to this concern. A better approach
might have been to ask potential investors interested in SOTELGUI to specify the period of
exclusive rights they would require, while making it clear that the GOG favors open entry into all
telecommunication markets in Guinea. This would have provided investors with an incentive to
reduce the period of exclusive rights.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
PART 11 -- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives I  Substantial  I    Partial    I   Negligible   I Not Applicable
Macroeconomuc policies 
Sector policies                                0        I                0         I       [
Financial objectives                                    E l                                El
Institutional development     !                                          I                 [o
Physical objectives           I       E         1       0        1       0         1       [
Poverty reduction                                       0 O               0 O              0 O
Gender concems                         E O              OO                                 0
Other social objectives       I       O        1        0                0                 El
Environmental objectives              El                E OO                               0
Public sector management              0 li                               E                 El
Private sector development    I       E        1                         0         1       O
I            I                I 
B. Proiect Sustairiabilitv                                   Unlikely                Uncertain



I1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C. Bank Perfonnance             High1y Satisfactory        Satisfacty               Deficien
Identification                          O           I3
Preparation assistance        I         0           i                         i3
Appraisal                     I         O                      l                       0
Supervision                             0                      0                       
D. Borrower Performance         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                   |                                0                       0
Implementation                i         0                                  I           0
Covenant compliance                      3 O                   0 O
Operation                                0 O         ___ _3__                          0
E. Assessment of Outcome      I Highlv Satisfactory v      Satisfactorv    I    Unsatisfactorv
I         0          I                       I



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose                      Year of      Status
I Approval I
Preceding Operations   X                                                         I
(none)                                                                   I l
:                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I 
Simultaneous Operation   l                                           l
Credit 2398-GUI -        To help the Government formulate and implement
Public Enterprise Sector  I the second phase of its public enterprise sector  I   1992   I Closed on
Rationalization and      rationalization and divestiture program, which             12/31/95
Privatization Programn   gives special emphasis to privatization and the
strengthening of key institutions involved in  l
program implementation.                     I
Planned Operations     i                                             l
Third StructuralX.                                   .        .      llI
T   struc tral           To help the Government improve its economic  l          l
AP  management and fiscal policy and finalize the  l
reform of the public enterprise sector.



13
Table 3  Project Timetable
Steps in Program Cycle                   Date Planned                  Date actual
Identification                                     February 1989                 February 1989
Preparation                                        August 1991                   August 1991
Appraisal                                          May 1992                      May 10-22, 1992
Negotiations                                       September 1992                September 15, 1992
Letter of Sector Policy                            August 1991                   August 1 991
Board presentation                                 October 15, 1992              December 10, 1992
Signing                                                                          January 21, 1993
ElTectiveness                                      March 1993                    August 27, 1993
Project completion                                 June 30,1995                  April 30,1996
Loan closing                              I        December 31, 1995             April 30,1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
1993              1994               1995              1996
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MI
Appraisal estimate                 2.5               10.6              14.6               14.6
Actual                             4.1               7.3                8.7               11.4
Actual as % of estimate           164%               69%               59%                78%
Date of final disbursement: August 21, 1996



14
Tables 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 5.A   SOTELGUIs Technical Performance Indicators
Indicators               |           Planned             |            Actual
Dec., 31 i Dec., 31   Dec., 31   Dec., 31   Dec., 31 I Dec., 31
1993      1994       1995      1993 *      1994       1995
!         I                     !          I       **
Main telephone lines in operation        11,000     13,000  I 13,000     7,600   !  9,307   I 10,179
Number of faults per line per 12           5          3         1.5        5          1.6        1.6
months (Conakry)                      .
% of faults repaired (as of reporting)           l          l
- in two days                     30         50        60         30        35.9       47.3
-in one week                      50         60        70         50        59.2       78.2
Percentage calls completed in              50               1   70         35         60         70
Conakry (% of trials)                                       III
Billing rate (in %/o)                      80         90        100        75        100         100
Recovery rate, on billing (in %/O)         75        80    '   85          35         80         90
* Estimated values       ** The targeted forecast (13,000) was met in March 1996
Table 5.B: OPGs Technical Performance Indicators
Indicators                           Planned                          Actual
Dec., 31   Dec., 31 l DDec., 31   ec., 31 l Dec., 31   Dec., 31
1993      1994   X  1995        1993   '  1994   I  1995
Mail delivered:                                  l          l
-Within Conakry (% of total mail to                                              I
40        60         80         40    1  78.2        94.7
be delivered the next day)                      l         l
- Between Conakry and the provincial             l          l
capitals (maximum number of days         10          7        2.5        10       2 to 4   I    3
allowed for delivery)                                                            if flight
I l                  j problems
Between Conakry and other towns                l          l
(maximumrnumberofdaysallowed             15         10         7         15         6          4
for delivery)                                  l          l                    l
Increase (in %/6) in total number of           l
post office boxes in operation              l  100%         --       20%        67%        90%
(base January 1, 1993)                   X (doubling) I                  l
Increase (in %) in total volume of            l
express mail handled            + 50%      + 100%    + 200%        --      + 122%    + 140%
(baseJanuary 1, 1993)                    I          I , .



15
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study             I          Purpose               Status                 Impact
1. Study on the restructuring of i To provide guidance for the  i Completed  i This study guided the overall
the post and telecom sector.   sector reorganization.     I             I sector restructuring and helped
elaborate the new legislation.
2. Study on the reactivation of    To assess the viability of  Completed    Helped the Govemment in its
postal savings and check     i these services.                          a decision on the future of these
services and intemational    I                            I             I services.
money transfers.             I                            l
3. Engineering of SOTELGUJI's   To provide a complete        Completed    Helped design a plan for future
investment program.          a analysis and design for the   I          i expansion and modemization
network modernization.     I             I of the network.
4. Postal and telecom tariffs.   I To design new tariff   I Completed  I Enabled (partial) cost-recovery
policies.                  I               through tariff adjustments.
5. Regulation of cellular      To define a level playing     In progress
telephones.                  i field in cellular telephones.
6. Preparation of bidding      Search for SOTELGUI's         Completed    Helped launch the initial
documents for SOTELGUI's    I private partners.           I             I bidding process.
privatization.                                            I             I



16
Table 7: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Category                 Appraisal estimate                              Actual
Government    IIDA TA         Total      Government    IDA TA           Total
I  Project     _            _                Project   I
(1) Consultants' services      -            6.06    I    6.06            --     I    6.69     I   6.69
and studies                        I             I                          I
(2) Training                   -            0.41     1   0.41            --     i    0.36    i    0.36
(3) Equipment, vehicles        a/      1    4.26     1   4.26          0.01     i    2.26     1   2.27
and materials                      I             I                          I
(4) Civil works                a/           0.80          0.80         0.02          0.51          0.53
(5) Refunding of Project        -           1.49     :    1.49           --           1.54    :    1.54
Preparation Advance                I             I                          I             I
(6) Unallocated                -            1.58          1.58           -           0.00          0.00
I            I                           I             I      
Total Project Cost         2.00    j   14.60          16.60         0.03     :   11.36    :   11.39
a/: 20% of local expenditures under these categories were to be financed by Government
Table 8: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan                   Appraisal estimate         |             Actual
Local    Foreign       Total     Local    Foreign        Total
Government                              2.00   i    --    I  2.00         0.03   i    --    1   0.03
IDA / Technical Assistance Project      0.50   1  14.10   i  14.60        0.11   1  11.25   1   11.36
_                           ~~~~~~~ ~                                   ~      ~~I _   I  I  I
Total                   2.50   I  14.10   I  16.60        0.14       11.25        11.39



17
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
t2
Credit       Covenant' i Present 
Agreement          type        status                Description of covenant             I        Comments
Section    I              I            I
I             I            I                                                I
3.01 (a)      I      10      I    CP      i The Borrower declares its commitment to the   i The Government did not
I :         | objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule    make its counterpart funds
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry  I available in a timely
I             I            I out the Project, through MC, with due diligence  I manner.
l             l            | and efficiency and in conformity with appropnate
E                          I financial, administrative and communications   I
I             I            : practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
l             I            i the funds, facilities, services and other resources
I             I            I required for the Project.
3.01 (b)             10           CP       Without limitation upon the provisions of        Many provisions of the
I             I            I paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the    E Implementation Program
I  I    I                                               I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~were not followed through
l             I            i Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
I  I          agree the Borrower shall carry out the Project in    (Sections S.4.I. and S.4.II.
I  I    I                                               I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~below).
i accordance with the Implementation Program set
I             I            | forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.01 (c)             10           CP       Without limitation upon the provisions of      I The Program Contracts of
I             i            I paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the  SOTELGUI and OPG were
l             l            i Borrower and the Association shall otherwise   i not implemented (Sections
I             g            f agree, the Borrower shall perform all its       5.01 and S.4.II.5 below).
obligations under the Program Contracts and
shall in no wav through its action or omission  I
I             I            ^ adversely affect the ability of SOTELGUI and
i OPG to fully carry out their obligations under the i
I             I            : Program Contracts and meet other targets and
objectives defined in this Agreement.
Covenant type:                                                    2  Present status:
I Accounts / audits                                                  C   =complied with
2: Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries         CD = complied with afler delay
3: Procurement                                                       CP   complied with partially
4: Counterpart funding                                               NC = not complied with
5: Management aspects of the Project or its executing agency
6: Cost recovery/pricing
7: Flow and utilization of Project funds
8: Environmental covenants
9: Monitoring, review and reporting
10: Implementation
I: Sectoral budgetary allocation
12: General conditions



18
Table 9  Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit       Covenant    Present
Agreement         type        status             Description of covenant          I         Comments
Section    I
3.02                 o           C       In the period tip to the Transfer Dates the          Fulfilled.
I          I E Borrower shall, for DNT and DNSPF
I |         : respectively:
I          I : (a) ensure that the total number of staff
l  l        | employed in DNT and DNSPF shall not
i exceed 1030 and 290 respectively;
I         : ~        ~~ I                               . 
(b) ensure that the tariffs set for services
l  rendered by DNT and DNSPF shall as a
I           | minimum be revised every six months to keep
Ipace with the SDR - GNF exchange rate. This I
obligation shall apply as of Januarv 1, 1992;
I          I | (c) for DNT only, ensure that its recovery rate
on billing shall be at least 35%; and
(d) for DNT only, deposit all revenues
l  l        t obtained from its operations as of January 1,                           l
l  1993 in an escrow account in a bank and on
conditions acceptable to the Association.
I         l           l                                           l                             I~~~~~~I 
I        ~~~~~~~~~~I  I                                       
3.03.               10           C       The Borrower shall reduce (and provide                Fulfilled.
l  l        | evidence thereof acceptable to the
l  l       | Association) its consumption of
I :         : telecommunications services in terms of the
total number of telephone line connections at
all levels of government from approximately
l           i 1 500 to 80() or less by June 30, 1993.
I          I : Thereafter the Borrower shall meet the targets
set in the Program Contracts for government
I :         | consumption.
3.04.        x         11       NC       The Borrower shall ensure that at all levels of  The Government did not pay
I government appropriate amounts are included   f for its use of OPG's services.
in the annual budgets to pav for the services    It also accumulated arrears
iprovided by SOTELGUI and OPG and that   i with SOTELGUI.
I :         | invoices received for services provided shall
be paid within three months
I from receipt of'the invoice.
I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lI                                    



19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit        Covenant      Present
Agreement          type        status               Description of covenant           I          Comments
Section    I              I                                                         l
3.05.         I      10            C        r The Borrower shall take all necessary    I           Fulfilled.
measurcs to ensure that SOTELGUI and OPG
shall not undertake any investment exceeding
l  l        I the equivalent of $1,000,000 that is not
acceptable to the Association
3.06.         j      6            CP       The Borrower shall, throughout the           Tariffs were adjusted only
l           I imTiplementation of the Project, cause     I partially, at levels below those
I :         : SOTELGIJI and OPG to adopt, implement        recommended under the
l  l|i and maintain a tariff structure satisfactory to   i Project.
l  l        | the Association. This tariff structure shall be
I |         | designed with a view to allowing full
compliance with the Program Contracts and
shall be implemented in SOTELGUI and
l  l|i OPG as of their respective Transfer Dates.    I
The Borrower shall take all measures
I           I : required on its part to enable SOTELGUI and
I           I | OPG to do so
3.07.         !      12      !    C        The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUl and                   Fulfilled
E           i OPG to,
in respect of their operations. carry out the
l  lSI obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
l  l         '39.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
I :         t Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
E  ||I goods and services, plans and schedules,
I :         : records and reports, maintenance and land
I :SI acquisition respectively).
3.08.         i      3             C       E]xcept as the Association shall otherwise              Fulfilled.
I  agrce, procurement of the goods, works and   i
a           I consultanits' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
l  l        | Credit shall be govemed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.



20
Table 9  Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit        Covenant  i Present
Agreement          type          status                 Description of covenant              I       Comments
Section     I              l            l
4. 01 (a)              I             CP      The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be        : The Project's accounts
l  l  l     E maintained records and accounts adequate to     i were not properly
l  :   |    : reflect in accordance with sound accounting       imaintained.
l  l  l    | practices the operations, resources and
I  expenditures in respect of the Project of the  l
l   :   I  : departments or agencies of the Borrower
l  E  |    | responsible for carrying out the Project or any  I
part thereof.
4.(01.(b)              1            CD       TIhe Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in   The audits of the
l  l   l   { paragraph (a) of this Section including those for  i 1'roject's accounts for
I        ~~~the special Account for each fiscal year audited,  I 1 993, 1994 and 1995,
in accordance with appropriate auditing           respectively, were
l  l   l   | principles consistently applied, by independent  I carried out in March
auditors acceptable to the Association,            1996.
l          I :   : (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six     As a result of the above,
months after the end of each such vear, a         both audit reports due
I        ~~~certified copy of- the report of- such auidit bv said    bv June 1 994 and June
lauditors, of such scope and in such detail as the  i 1995, respectively, were
l          I }   | Association shall have reasonably requested; and   made available only in
I           I |                                               1  1996



21
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit        Covenant   Present
Agreement  I    type    I  status  I                 DescriDtion of covenant               i       Comments
Section    l              l                                                .
4.01 (b)       l             l           I (iii) furnish to the Association such other      l
(contd.)                     I           I information conceming said records, accounts and
l             l           i the audit thereof as the Association shall from
I             I           : time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c)       !                 CP       For all expenditures with respect to which        ! The Project's accounts
I             I           I Iwithdrawals from the Credit Account were made   I were not properly
on the basis of statements of expenditure, the     organized, maintained,
Borrower shall:                                   i and retained.
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in        l
I             |           | accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,   I
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
I  I        I (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association as received the audit report for the
l             l           a fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the   l
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
l             l           | Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,   i
I :        : invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
Ievidencing such expenditures,
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
iexamine such records; and
I             :           : (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in       l
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of
I E        i such audit contains a separate opinion by said    I
I            I            I auditors as to whether the statements of
l          | expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,                               l
together with the procedures and intemal controls  l
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
isupport the related withdrawals.
.  ~       ~       ~ ~~~~~~~ lI



22
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit       Covenant   Present
Agreement        type       status               Description of covenant            I       Comments
Section    I            I         I
5.01.         i    12          CP      Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General   I
iConditions, the following additional events are  I
I      I ~~specified:
l         I |   | (a) Any of the following documents has been
amended, suspended, repealed, waived or
l  |   |   | otherwise deviated from in practice, so as to, in the i
l         I :   : opinion of the Association, materially and
l  X   |   ff adversely affect the ability of SOTELGUI or OPG
I  l  l   | to perform their obligations in accordance with the
I :       } Project: the Telecom Law, the Telecom Decree, the
l  |   |   | Post Law, the Post Decree, the Cahier des Charges I
Post, the Public Enterprise Law, the SOTELGUIJ
l         i |   | Statutes, the OPG Statutes and the Telecom
l  l  l   t Concession Agreement;,
l  l  l   | (b) non-compliance with the Telecom Concession   I OPG's draft Program
Agreement, the OPG Transfer Contract, any of the   Contract was prepared
IProgram Contracts, or any of the Management   iunder the Project.
Contracts, by either party thereto; and         However, it has not yet
l         I |   |                                         | been implemented.
5.01.         I           I          I (c) any action or omission that may lead to the
l         I :   | dissolution or disestablishment of SOTELGUI or
OPG or to the suspension of their operations.
5.02.         I    12      i   C       Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General            Fulfilled.
I    IConditions,  the following additional event is
lspecified: any event specified in Section 5.01 of i
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have I
been given by the Association to the Borrower.    I



23
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit    j Covenant   Present j
Agreement        type       status               Description of covenant            I       Comments
Section    I  ___   __i
6.01.               12                 The following events are specified as additional       Fulfilled.
i conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b)of the
General Conditions:
j            j         j (a) the establishment of the Cahier des Charges
I            I         i Post and the cahier des charges referred to in
j            j         j Article 21 of the Telecom Law, both in forn and
content acceptable to the Association;
I j          j         j (b) the appointment of the members of the Boards
I            I |       |  of
j            j'j Directors of SOTELGUI and OPG;
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j         I jt (c) receipt of confirmation, by decision of the
SOTELGUI and OPG Boards of Directors or any
I other appropriate instrument acceptable to the
Association, that no later than their respective
Transfer Dates:
j            j         j    (i) the Management Teams will be appointed
to the senior management positions in
j            j         j    SOTELGUI and OPG; and
(ii) the level of decision-making authority
regarding the management of SOTELGUIJs and
OPG's operations, as envisaged in Schedule 4,
Section II, paragraphs 3 (b) and 4 (b) of this
Agreement, will be allocated to the
Management Teams; and
(d) the total number of staff employed in DNT and
j  j      j DNSPF does not exceed 1030 and 290
i respectively;
j  j      j (e) total government consumption of
I  telecommunications services in terms of metered
telephone services has been reduced by at least
i 30%  during the period January through Decernber
1992;
I         I l   | (f) the tariffs set for services rendered by DNT and
DNSPF have been revised every six months since
January 1, 1992, to keep pace with the SDR - GNF
exchange rate;



24
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit       Covenant    Present l                                                       l
Agreement         type        status                  Description of covenant              l       Comments
Section    I             I           I
6.01.          l            l            I (g) a directorate for the supervision of post and  I
(contd.)                    I            I telecommunications activities has been established
in MC and is operational;                         I
l            I           l (h) receipt by the Association of an opinion or
l            I           l opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel  I
I            l           I acceptable to the Association, confirming that:
l            l           l    (i) there are no legal restrictions currently
existing or expected to arise prior to the
l    Transfer Dates, that may prevent, delay or
I            I           :    hinder the transfer of operations, assets and
I            l           l    personnel from DNT and DNSPF to
l  l        8    SOTELGUI and OPG, respectively, as
I            l           l    envisaged by the Project; and
I            l           :    (ii) the allocation and delegation of decision
l            l           l    making authority to the Management Teams, as l
l            l           l    envisaged in this Agreement, and particularly   l
I            I           :    in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraphs 3 (b) and
l            l           1    4 thereof is consistent with and can be
implemented in the context of the Telecom Law:
l            l                 and Decree, the Post Law and Decree, the      I
I            I           l    Public Enterprise Law, as well as any other
relevant regulation in force or pending,
including the Cahier des Charges Post, the
cahier des charges referred to in Article 21 of
I    the Telecom Law, the SOTELGUI Statutes and  i
I            I           I    the OPG Statutes.
6.02.          !     12     !    C        The date ninety (90) days after the date of this           Fulfilled.
l            l           I Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of  I
l            l           l Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
i            i           I           S.4. Implementation Program             i
I            I           I 
S 4I1 1   5        C     I MC is responsible for Project implementation and   i
S.4.I.l.  I  5    i    C      i ~~~monitoring.                                    I        Fulfilled.
S.4. 1. 2.           9            C       MC shall submit semi-annual progress reports in a          Fulfilled.
l            l           i format approved by the Association within eight    I
l            l           I weeks of the end of each six month interval. For
l            l           l the purpose of this paragraph, the first interval
l            l           l ends on June 30, 1993. These reports shall give a
detailed account on progress made and problems
I            ||I encountered during project implementation for               I
each Part of the Project.
.            II



25
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit   I Covenant   Present I'
Agreement       type       status               Implementation Propram               I       Comments
Section   i           l         l
I        I         ,                                                  |   __         _~I 
S.4 I. 3.   l    9           C C    I Each semi-annual progress reports shall be the i       Fulfilled.
subject of a separate joint review meeting between
the Borrower and the Association.
S.4. I. 4.        9     l  NC       The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a  No mid-term review was
I         i mid-term review of the Project between 12 and 14 1 undertaken, since the
I         I : months after the Management Teams have started  Bank did not consider
their work. The Borrower shall prepare the inputs l this important in view of
l  required for this review. The mid-term review shall l the satisfactory progress
assess:                                         linthe Project
l   I     I                                                 I implementation.
(a) the progress made in implementing the Project l Progress inachieving
and problems encountered;                       I performance targets was
(b) l ll monitored by frequent
(b) the progress made in meeting performance targets I Bank supervision
I :      :I set;                                            I missions and follow-up.
(c) the performance of MC, SOTELGUI and OPG, X
I         I : including an assessment of the managerial autonomy:
enjoyed by the Management Teams;
l ~     ~~~~~~ l
(d) the progress made on the privatization  of
I |      : SOTELGUI;,
(e) the continued validity of the Project design in the
I         I : light of implementation experience; and
l  :     :i (f) the adjustments required in Project design and i
I         I : execution.
l  l     l The Borrower shall implement without delay the l
I l      : recommendations that result from  the mid-term
l  l     li review and are agreed between the Borrower and the i
l         I l Association.
S.4.  1.         10     i  CD       The Borrower shall grant the concession envisaged in  Concession was granted
l   I    I Article 5 of the Telecom Law to SOTELGUI no later I to SOTELGUI effective
than June 30, 1993. This concession shall cover the  August 31, 1994.
I l       l establishment,  development,  exploitation   and l
l  l     l maintenance of the public network and the provision
of public telecomnmunications services.
The concession agreement including the cahier des
l  charges referred to in Article 21 of the Telecom Law i
l         I l (also jointly referred to as the Telecom Concession
I         I l Agreement) shall be acceptable to the Association and
l  l     : shall be entered into no later June 30, 1993. It shall, l
inter alia, include:



26
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit   i Covenant   Present l
Agreement        type        status                 Implementation Program                 I        Comments
Section   i
S.4. 11. 1.                 CD         (a) the transfer of DNT operations to SOTELGUI        The transfers of DNT's
(contd.)                             i through the transfer of DNTs personnel and assets    i personnel and assets to
l  :          :          (with the exception of subscribers arrears originating    SOTEl GUI were
more than three months prior to the SOTELGUTI         completed on January I
l             I l       i Transfer Date). This transfer is to take placc no later C  and August 31, 1994,
than June 30, 1993.                                   respectively.
l  t   ff   : (b) the transfer to SOTIELGUI of the amount held in
I  E         z          | escrow in accordance with Section 3.02 (d) of this
l  l  l   | Agreement. This transfer shall take place no later   l
l             I |       | than June 30, 1993. Aforementioned amount
I         I |   z represents a participation of the Borrower in the  I
capital of SOTELGUI;
l             I i       I (c) acceptance by the Borrower of all liabilities     The Government took
(including debt related to acquisition of equipment   over DNT's previous
l   I        I          z and to foreign telecommunications administrations)    long-term debts on
larising out of or in connection with DNT's operations   investments and to
Iup to the SOTELGUI Transfer Date, as well as an      i foreign administrations
l         I |   | obligation to indemnity and hold SOTELGUI       which amounted over
harmless from any claim in connection therewith;      US$ 35 million.
l             I         l : and                                  0
I         1 : (d) an opening balance for SOTELGUI that is        I
l         I t   | certified by the Borrower's auditors and acceptable to
the Association.
S.4. 11.2.    10            CP         The Borrower shall no later than June 30, 1993:
l             I         I : (a) establish a cahier des charges (also referred to as    This was completed on
the Cahier des Charges Post) in conformity with the   i August 31, 1994.
l         I :   : Post Law and acceptable to the Association; and
l   I   I  I (b) transfer the operations of DNSPF to OPG. This    I The transfers of
l  X   :   ^ transfer shall be based on the execution of a transfer  e DNSPF's assets and
I Xcontract between OPG and the Borrower (also                   i personnel to OPG were
referred to as the OPG Transfer Contract). The OPG    completed on June 2,
Transfer Contract shall be acceptable to the          1992 and May 16, 1994,
l             I         I : Association and shall, inter alia, include:        I respectively.
I  E  |   z    (i) the transfer of I)NSPF's assets and personnel   i
l         I :   :    toOPG;                                       GOPG's employees are
l         I X   X                                                s still under the Civil
l         I |   |    (ii) acceptance by the Borrower of all liabilities  I Service status.
(including debt related to acquisition of
l            X          |I   equipment) arising out of or in connection with   i
l             I         I X    DNSPF's operations up to the OPG Transfer Date
as well as an obligation to indemnify and hold
l  :   :        OPG harmless from any claim in connection        I
l   I         I         I    therewith;
l(iii) an opening balance for OPG that is certified by
l                       i t   | the Borrower's auditors and acceptable to the
I            I          I Association.



27
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit   ; Covenant i Present I                                                          i
Agreement        type        status                 Implementation Proeram                          Comments
Section   i                                                                                                          I
I~~~~~~~ 
S.4. 11.3.    I    10     I   CP    i The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUJI and OPG to
I         | recruit expert management teams (also referred to as
the Management Teams) from internationally
I            I          I recognized firms to assume senior management
I         : positions in SOTELGUt and OPG for renewable
i periods of'one year. The composition of the
I             I         i Management Teams, their terms of reference and the
I         I 0 qualifications of'the team members shall, at all times  I
I             I         I during Project implementationi, be acceptable to the   I
Association.
The Borrower slhall, to that effect, cause SOTELGUIJ
I             I         i and OPG to enter into agreements with the above-
I             I          I mentioned firms (also referred to as the Management
I            I          I Contracts) no later than January 31, 1993. The
I   I     I Management Contracts shall be acceptable to the
Association and shall, inter alia, include:
I  (a) an obligation for both Management Teams to be in
I            I          : place in full no later than March 15, 1993;-
(b) the allocation oftadequate decision making
I  I      i authority to the Management Teams that will enable
I            I          | them to effectively and efficiently run SOTELGUI
I            I          0 and OPG operations within the annual budgets and
I             I         I rolling Program Contracts as established in
I         : accordance with this Agreement and the regulatory
and institutional framework for the
I :       j telecommunications and post sectors. In particular
the Management Teams will be allowed to
I             I         I independently decide and implement decisions
I            l          : regarding.
I                                                     i The status ofOPG's
4    (i) the personnel in accordance with the           personnel was not
applicable labor law;                            I changed to the Labor
4  I  4                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Code, which governs
I            4          |    (ii) connection and disconnection of subscribers;    publieenterprise
I         I l                                                    X employees. OPG
I             I         a    (iii) commitment of operating expenditure in the    personnel is still under
4    context of the annual budget; -                    Civil Service status.
(iv) measures - including but not limited to
adjustment of its tariffs - to meet and continue to  I
I            I          :    meet all targets set in the Program Contracts; and
I            I          :    (v) recovery of billings.
I            I          I (c) a mechanism directly linking the remuneration of
the Management Teams to their performance;
I            I          I                                             



28
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit   X Covenant   Present I                                                       i
Agreement       type        status                Implementation Pro2ram                I        Comments
Section   i                       I
I            l          I
S.4. I1.3.                            (d) the obligation for the Management Teams to     I
l (contd.)                           finalize staffing plans no later than April 30, 1993
(contd.)  I  I          I and implement such plans in SOTELGUI and OPG
l            I [       | as of their respective Transfer Dates. This plan shall l
l            0          | detail the levels and skill mix of manpower required
I            :         : as well as a staff incentive scheme;
l            I         I | (e) the obligation of the Management Teams to as of
I            I          I 1994 prepare annually no later than October 31                               l
l            I |       | operating and capital budgets together with financial
l  l   l   W projections (including income statements, funds flow  I
statements and balance sheets) covering at least the
three coming fiscal years. In addition, an operating    l
l            I          I | and capital budget, as well as financial projections,   l
shall be prepared for the period July through
l            I         I | December 1993, by June 30, 1993;
I            I         : (f) the obligation for the Management Teams to     iOPG's cost-accounting
I  t      8 introduce no later than December 31, 1993          system was not installed.
management information/accounting systems in
I  l         l          s SOTELGUI and OPG. These svstems will cover, inter I
l            I          1 : alia, billing and customer accounting, cost accounting
I         i and financial control, as well as personnel and will    I
l            I          I | ensure the timely availability of reliable and
standardized financial and other infornation that will
l  l   l   a allow, amongst others, to evaluate performance    l
l            I          g | against the targets set out in Section III of this
l            I |zi Schedule 4; and                                            The audits of OPG
the obligation for the Management Teams to keep accounts for 1993, 1994
l            I {        | (g) the obligation for the Management Teams to keep   and 1995, respectively,
l            I |        t records and accounts on SOTELGUI and OPG, to      I were carried out in
prepare financial statements as of fiscal 1993, and to    February/March 1996.
I                      1 have these records, accounts and statements audited        Those of SOTELGLUI
applying, mutatis mutandis, Section 4.01 of this    were timely but
l            I         I : Agreement.                                       E qualified.
S.4. 11.4.        10          C      The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUI and OPG to, no            Flulfilled.
l  E   z   |Ilater than their respective Transfer Dates:
I (a) appoint the Management Teams to the
l            Ifi        I : management positions in SOTELGUI and OPG in    l
accordance with the Management Contracts; and
l  ff        |         f (b) delegate to the Management Teams, by decision
l                       i |   | of the SOTELGUI and OPG Board of Directors or    l
I            I          I any other appropriate instrument acceptable to the    I
l         I |   | Association, the level of decision making authority    I
l            X         I specified in paragraph 3 (b) above.
.    I            ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~I  I 



29
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Credit   ; Covenant   Present l
Agreement :   type         status              nImulementation Profram                        Comments
Secdon   l                                            
S4. 11.5.        10      X  NC      ' The Borrower shall, and shall cause SOTELGUI and  I No program contract was
OPG to, enter into separate three year rolling program   implemented under the
Icontracts (also referred to as the Program Contracts)  iProject. This was
'no later than September 30, 1993 in accordance with   detrimental to the
lthis paragraph. These Program Contracts shall be  1sustainable rehabilitation
I            I         I entered into between the Borrower on the one side,  I of OPG. However, the
:and SOTELGUI and OPG respectively on the other   1lack of a contract
iside, in accordance with the Telecom and Post Laws. Xprogram did not affect
1The Program Contracts will be reviewed and if      SOTELGUI, since this
appropriate revised at intervals of one year following Icompany was privatized.
I their effective date. Both the initial Programi
Contracts as well as any revision thereof are subject
eto the Associationis prior approval.              I
,The initial Program Contracts shall, inter alia, include
i            I         I for both SOTELGU andOPG:
i (a) performance targets not below those set out in  I
I            |         : Section III of this Schedule for SOTELGUI and OPG,
as well as targets regarding the training of local
ISOTELGUI and OPG staff,
I            I         I,I
I   I     I(b) specific monitorable targets regarding:      I
(i) budgets and financial projections in m
I            I         I   compliance of paragraph 3 (e) above;           I
l            l         I    (ii) the implementation of the staffmg plan
I            I         I    referred to in paragraph 3 (d) above; and
I            I         I    (iii) the level of government consumption of  I
I                      I |    service provided;
I            I         I (c) specific provisions to ensure compliance with the
Imonitoring and review requirements set out in
paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Section I of this Schedule 4.



30
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff - Weeks)
I       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stage of project cycle          '   Planned    '    Revised            Actual
Through appraisal    (Preparation,Pre-appraisal)  '  45            n.a              81.1 *
Appraisal 4 Board   (Negotiation)                  20               "-              11.1
Board 4 Effectiveness                              12                                8.2
I               I                I
Supervision                                        50                        I     53.4
Completion                                         15                               23
Total                          152              n.a.            176.8
n.a.:  not applicable
** Discussions and preparatory work on sector reform and assistance for the process of separating
the postal and telecommunications operations and corporatizing and establishing SOTELGUI
took longer than had been planned for project preparation/pre-appraisal.



31
Table 11: Bank Resources  Staff Missions
I -        r - -                      ,    Perforrance  rating 3
Stage of   I Month /    Nusber   Days I        Specialized staff skills                                         Types of problems
project cycle   Year         of      in              represented           Implementation     Development
P   I      I pLersons I field I                             I      Stats      I    imnpact    I
I          I          I       I                             I                 I                I
Through      1  09/88        2         6    Financial Analyst,                   none             none        -Recoiuaiaance.
i  02/89        1        6   i Engineer Telecom                                                i i -PPFfor sectorstudieand
Engineer (TE)                                                      master development plam
09/90   1   2    1  8   I                                  1                 1                  -Review of Project stAtua
02/91     1           4    TEand Loan Officer                                                I - aldocumentsfor ector
I  I      I       I Financial Analyst (Task      I                 I                I reform;openingbalanceaof
06/91        2    1  12    manager - TM) and TE                                                OPG and SOTELGUI,
I  12/91        1    1  4       TM and TE                   I                 I                I  investmed progran, PPF
1                 I |  z Loan Officer                                               g  extension.
I          I          I       I                             I                 I                1-Donors' meeting in Paris.
1  02/92   1   4    i  12  1                                1                 1
I |       g       | TM,TE, Division Chief and
I          I          I       I Resident Representative     I                                  I
I          I                  I                             I                 I        
Appraisal 4     05/92        2        22    Financial Analyst (TM)               none             none        Review of and agreement on
Board        1  09/92   1                  i and Telecom Engineer                                           I i project components and
12/92                     I                                                                  action planforreform.
Board            12192        I        5    Financial Analyst (TM)               none             none        Effectiveness conditions.
Effectiveness  i  01/93            I       I                                                                I Stepstoimplementtech.
08/93                                                                                        assistance to SOTELGUI.
T          I          r       I                             I                 a        
Supervision                                                              I                I
I          I          I       I                                               a |              | Review of project
I    :         12/92   I1        5   'FinancialAnalyst(TM)                   I                1 Icomponents.
06/93                     :                              5                 |                | Fulfllment of conditions of
II      I  06/93  1     I 1      6   I Financial Analyst (TM)                2 2              2        1 effectiveness.
I                     j       I                             I                 I                I 8 TA to OPG and SOTELGUI
III       10-11/93    1          1 2  i FinancialAnalyst(TM)                 I                 I         andprivatization.
I                 I                                                I                I :   :   g Transfer of assets, regulation
IV      I  04/94         2       1 6    Financial Analyst (TM)               2                 2         of mobiletelephonesand
I      i and Telecom Engineer         I                                  I privatization.
IIl       I       I                              I                 I                I Pivatization, contract
V          02/95        1    1  12    Financial Analyst (TM)                 S                S          programs, audits.
I          |          |          |       l                             |  I  I                                                        11
Coniletion     01-02/96      2    1  7   1 Economist (TM) and             I       S        I       S        IICR preparation
|                     j       i ]  : Telecom Engineer       I
3   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4 (lowest).



32
GUINEA
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2444-GUI)
A. Mission's Aide-Menoire
1.     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale compose de Messrs. Jean-Michel Happi, Economiste, et
Svetoslav Tintchev, Ingenieur des Telecommunications, a sejourne en Guinee du 29 janvier au 4 f6vrier
1996. La rnission avait pour objectifs de superviser le Projet mentionne ci-dessus et en preparer le Rapport
de fin d'exdcution (RFE).
2.     La mission remercie le Gouvemement de la Republique de Guinee, notaniment S.E.M. le Ministre
des Postes et Telecommunications et ses collaborateurs, ainsi que les Directeurs et cadres de la Soci& des
Telecommunications de Guinee (SOTELGUI) et de l'Office de la Poste Guineenne (OPG), pour leur
accueil, leur disponibilite et leur participation aux travaux de la mission.
3.     Le present Aide-memoire rapporte les progres accomplis dans 1'exdcution du Projet depuis la
derniere mission de supervision en fevrier 1995. 11 comprend egalement les actions prioritaires a realiser
par le Gouvernement pour ameliorer la gestion, completer la mise en oeuvre et preparer le plan des
op6rations futures du Projet apres sa cl6ture le 30 avril 1996. Les reunions de synthese et de discussion de
I'Aide-memoire prevues avec les autorites Guineennes n'ont pas eu lieu en raison de l'interruption subite de
la mission suite aux ev6nements survenus en Guinee du 2 au 4 fevrier 1996. La mission n'a pas pu
rencontrer les autres intervenants du Projet, notamment la DNMPPE, les auditeurs (Deloitte & Touche) et
les opdrateurs prives, pour cette meme raison.
!.     Progres Realises dans la Mise en Oeuvre du Projet
4.     Le Gouvernement a mis en oeuvre les principales reformes du secteur des postes et
telecommunications,  portant notammnient sur  la  reorganisation  du  Ministere  des  Postes  et
Teldconrnunications (MPT), la privatisation de SOTELGUI et la commercialisation de l'OPG.
(a)    Reorganisation du MPT
5.     La reorganisation du MPT est achevee. Ses nouvelles responsabilites en matiere de regulation,
supervision et contr6le du secteur des postes et telecommunications sont definies par le Decret No.
94/1 10/PRG/SGG. La mission a e inform6e qu'elles ont ete mises en vigueur suite a la promulgation des
arretes fixant les cadres organiques des differents departements du MPT. Les services de base de postes et
telecommunications sont foumis par l'OPG et SOTELGUI, respectivement, qui jouissent de monopoles a
cet effet. Les autres services a valeur ajoutee font l'objet de competition avec le secteur prive. Ces
dispositions sont stipulees par la loi. Neanmoins, les conditions d'exercice des monopoles ainsi que les
regles de competition necessitent encore d'&re clarifiees afin d'en faciliter I'application.
6.     Afin de consolider la durabilite de ces reformes, la mnission recommande la realisation des etudes
visant a: (i) reguler le monopole de SOTELGUI, y compris les conditions d'interconnexions des operateurs
prives a son reseau; (ii) ddfinir des regles transparentes et equitables de competition dans les services a
valeur ajoutee, notamment en matiere de tel6phonie mobile, auxquelles seraient assujetties l'ensemble des
operateurs, y compris SOTELGUI; et (iii) evaluer la faisabilite d'une agence autonome de regulation du
secteur des telecommunications, y compris des options de financement d'une telle agence.



33
7.     Afin de pernettre au MPT de mieux assumer ses nouvelles fonctions, la mission recommande
egalement le renforcement de ses capacites institutionnelles, notamment dans les domaines de: (a) I'analyse
financiere des prix et couits, qui sont des 6lements cles des politiques tarifaire et de regulation; (b)
I'evaluation de la qualite des services, des programmes d'investissement et des standards techniques; (c)
1'elaboration et le suivi des contrats et cahiers des charges des operateurs de telecommunications; et (d) le
contr6le et la gestion informatisee des frequences.
(b)    Privatisation de SOTELGUI
8.     Le Gouvemement a signe un accord de joint-venture avec la societe Telekom Malaysia Berhad
(TMB) de Malaisie le 23 decembre 1995, en vue de la privatisation de SOTELGUI. Le capital de
SOTELGUI a e  augmente a US$75 millions en janvier 1996, dont 40%  sont detenus par le
Gouvernement et 60% par TMB. L'apport du Gouvemement a ce joint-venture est constitue des actifs de
SOTELGUI qui sont evalues a environ US$30 millions. L'apport de TMB d'un montant de US$45
millions se fera en numeraire et devrait etre libere en totalite au cours du mois de fevrier 1996. La gestion
de SOTELGUI devrait etre assur6e par TMB a compter du ler mars 1996.
9.     Au terme de cet accord, SOTELGUI procedera, inter alia, a des investissements de plus de
US$100 millions afin d'augmenter le nombre de ses lignes principales de 10.000 actuellement a 50.000
puis 100.000 au cours des trois a cimq prochaines annees. D'autres investissements a long terme sont
egalement prevus afin de moderniser et accroitre davantage ce parc telephonique a 500.000 lignes
principales a l'horizon de 2010. Les effectifs actuels de l'entreprise (850 employes) seront maintenus.
SOTELGUI mettra egalement en oeuvre un programme ambitieux de developpement des ressources
humaimes qui fait partie integrante du plan d'entreprise adopte dans le cadre de l'accord de joint-venture.
10.    La mission attire l'attention du Gouvernement sur certaines dispositions de I'accord de joint-
venture (e.g., Article 4.4) dont l'interpretation pourrait etre fort restrictive et constituer une entrave
importante a la participation effective d'autres operateurs prives au developpement du secteur des
telecommunications en Guinee. A cet effet, elle recommande que les activites sujettes au monopole de
SOTELGUI soient precisees de facon exhaustive et que les regles de competition dans les autres activites
soient aussi clarifiees. Les etudes mentionnees ci-dessus pourraient guider le Gouvernement dans ce
domaine.
1I.    Le partenaire prive de SOTELGUI ayant etd selectionne en marge du processus competitif d'appel
d'offres qui etait en cours, la mission a indique que ceci pourrait avoir un impact sur la credibilite
internationale de cette operation et de 1'ensemble du programme de privatisation en Guinee.
(c)    Commercialisation de l'OPG
12.    Apres 17 mois d'assistance technique financee par le Projet, l'OPG est desormais entierement gere
par des cadres Guineens depuis janvier 1995, et a acquis une veritable culture d'entreprise. L'Office a
ameliord ses indicateurs de performance technique definis dans le cadre du Projet, et mis en oeuvre
d'importantes reformes visant a mieux maitriser ses cofits et redresser sa situation financiere.  Les
principales reformes portent sur la fermeture de 29 agences postales sur 69, la diversification de ses
produits et services (e.g., EMS); des efforts de promotion et marketing, la sous-traitance de certaines
prestations et des initiatives de partenariat avec des operateurs privds. Neanmoins, l'OPG realise encore
des pertes d'exploitation qui constituent un poids important sur les finances publiques. Ces pertes se
chiffraient a FG 431 millions et FG 506 millions en 1994 et 1995, respectivement.



34
13.    Afin d'amrliorer la situation financiere de l'OPG, la mission reconunande: (i) la mise en place d'un
systeme de facturation et de collecte des recettes des consomnnations de services postaux par les usagers
publics, y compris I'Administration. Ceci augmnenterait les recettes annuelles de l'OPG de 10% environ;
(ii) la preparation d'un plan social afin de regler le probleme de sureffectif de l'OPG, (iii) I'introduction
d'un systeme de comptabilite analytique afin de mieux identifier ses centres de couits et profits, et evaluer
les cofits des missions de service public accomplies par l'Office pour le compte du Gouvemement, pour
lesquelles l'OPG devraient etre compense; et (iv) le changement du statut des agents de l'Office, qui est
encore celui de la Fonction Publique et devrait etre remplace par le Code du travail qui regit le personnel
des entreprises publiques. Ce changement de statut serait accompagne par la mise en place d'une politique
de personnel plus souple, comprenant des incitations de performance.
14.    La mission recommande que ces mesures soient mises en oeuvre dans le cadre d'un contrat de
performance qui servirait de reference pour le redressement des operations de l'OPG et I'amelioration de
ses relations financieres avec l'Etat. Un tel contrat etait prevu dans le cadre du Projet mais n'a pas e
realnse.
II.    Autres Actions Prioritaires
15.    La mission recommande la mise en oeuvre des actions prioritaires suivantes visant a ameliorer la
gestion et l'execution du Projet:
*  Ia mise a disposition des fonds de contrepartie par le Gouvemement;
*  l'amelioration substantielle de la gestion comptable et financiere du Projet;
*  Ia realisation de l'audit des comptes de l'OPG de 1993 a 1995;
*  Ia realisation de l'audit des comptes de SOTELGUI de 1995; et
*  la realisation de l'audit des comptes du Projet pour la periode allant du mois d'aofit 1993 au 31
dicembre 1995 (I'audit des comptes du ler janvier au 30 avril 1996 serait effectue apres cette
date).
16.    La mission s'est accordee avec les responsables du Projet sur un plan d'action detaille et un
6cheancier de deboursements, qui permettraient de completer les taches principales restantes avant sa
cl6ture le 30 avril 1996. Ces taches comprennent la realisation des etudes et audits mentionnes dans les
paragraphes 6. et 14. ci-dessus, respectivement, des achats de biens et services pour l'OPG et SOTELGUI,
et divers programmes de formation.
17.    La mission a collecte des donnees et informations n6cessaires a la finalisation du RFE du Projet.
Elle a egalement foumi une assistance au Gouvemement pour la preparation de sa contribution a ce
rapport, y compris l'elaboration d'un plan d'operations futures dans le secteur des postes et
telecommunications et des indicateurs de performance qui permettraient d'en suivre l'evolution apres la
cl6ture du Credit 2444-GUI. La mission suggere que ce plan comprenne les mesures que le MPT envisage
de mettre en oeuvre pour: (i) renforcer le cadre de regulation du secteur et ses capacites institutionnelles;
(ii) suivre l'execution du plan d'entreprise (Business Plan) de SOTELGUI, y compris ses plans
d'investissement et de developpement de ressources humaines; et (iii) completer et implanter le contrat de
performance de l'OPG.
18.    La Banque transmettra un RFE provisoire au Gouvemement pendant le mois de mars 1996. Celui-
ci a convenu de faire part de ses commentaires sur ce rapport et de sa propre evaluation retrospective du
Projet avant le mois de mai 1996.



35
PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE AU SECTEUR DES POSTES ET
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ( Credit 2444-GUI)
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Rapport de Fin d'Execution
I. Introduction:
A 1'avenement de la Deuxieme Republique (Avril 1984), la Guinee a engage de
profondes reformes economiques et financieres et s'est resolument toumre vers
une economie liberale.
Cette politique de reforrne devait conduire I'Etat a se desengager de certains
secteurs  economiques  dont  entre  autres,  celui  des  Postes  et
Telecommunications en 1991.
En effet la gestion centralisee des ressources financi&es au sein du Departement
des finances ne profitait pas au Ministere des Postes et Telcommunications:
- la demande de credit n'est pas appreciee au regard des besoins
specifiques du secteur et surtout en fonction des possibilites financieres de
l'Etat;
_ le manque de strategie relle et de systeme de comptabilite coherent
sont entre autres les principales difficultes de la gestion du secteur.
Dans le souci de moderniser et de restructurer les services des Postes et
Telecommunications en vue de les exploiter et les rentabiliser au mieux , le
Gouvemement Guineen a beneficie de I' appui d'une Assistance Technique qui a
conduit a la restructuration graduelle du secteur, creant ainsi les deux entites
autonomes de gestion OPG (Office de la Poste Guineenne) et la SOTELGUI
(Societe des Te1lcommunications de Guinee).
Apergu du Projet:
Un Credit d'un montant de 10 Millions de DTS a et mis en place pour
l'exdcution des depenses au titre des differents travaux de fournitures et de
services entrant dans le cadre de ce projet.
Suivant le cadre de l'Accord de credit de l'IDA, ce projet visait a financer les
differentes phases de sa realisation pour ainsi  favoriser le developpement
technique, economique du secteur.
Le tableau ci-dessous indique la categorisation des travaux, fournitures et
services ainsi que le montant accorde a chaque categorie.



36
V.- PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
L'Emprunteur a tout mis en oeuvre pour remplir l'essentiel des conditionnalites
au demarrage du projet. Cependant au cours de l'execution de celui-ci des
difficultes dues a la non mise en place du fond de contrepartie et du compte
special et la complexite des procecdures lides a la passation des marches
finances par la banque ont enormement affecte cette execution.
VI.- CONCLUSIONS DE L'EVALUATION
De l'analyse qui precede il ressort:
- Qu'il n'y a pas une adequation dans la gestion et les principales phases
d'execution du projet;
- Cependant, I'assistance a l'organisation du Ministere de tutelle, et la mise en
place des entites SOTELGUI et OPG a ete jugee satisfaisante.
- L'etude de privatisation n'a pas eu un effet logique.
- Les etudes techniques sont satisfaisantes
- Un apport en 6quipements compromis par la cl6ture du projet.
VII- LECONS A TIRER DE L'EXECMTION DU PROJET
- Une lourdeur administrative au niveau de la Division Industrie-Energie est tres
remarquable;
- La centralisation des operations de decaissement au niveau du Ministere des
Finances influence fort negativement 1'execution du projet;
- Les mutations en cascades repet6es des fonctionnaires de la Division Industrie
Energie entrave profondement 1'execution du projet (discontinuite dans les
actions entreprises);
- La centralisation excessive du pouvoir decisionnaire de l'IDA a Washington
est un veritable goulot d'etranglement pour la gestion des projet locaux.



37
Plusieurs fournitures et equipements qui devraient donner un e1an consid6rable
au decollage de l'OPG n'ont pu 8tre effectuees: foumiture de vehicules et
motos, fourniture de materiels,mobilier de bureau et equipements postaux,
fournitures d'equipements divers.
Cette composante du projet n'a pas et realisee tel evoque plus haut. Plusieurs
dossiers concernant les deux entites sont en souffrance et risquent de ne pas
aboutir : les dossiers d'appel d'offlre des fourmitures indiquees ci-dessus et le
dossier pour la r6habilitation de l'energie d'almamya pour la SOTELGUI.,
source thermique centrale des infrastructures nodales de la Societe.
* Formation:
Ce volet a ete entierement realise pour la SOTELGUI. Le plan de formation de
l'OPG n'a connu qu'un debut d'ex6cution et le Ministere de tutelle n'a pas
beneficie de la formation qui etait souhaitee pour lui permettre d'assurer la
reglementation et la supervision du secteur.
IV.- PERFORMANCE DE L'EDA
La performance de l'IDA  a et  jugee globalement satisfaisante. Elle a et
surtout remaquable au cours de la phase preparatoire et au debut de 1'execution,
du projet, contrairement a son achevement ou elle a enormement baisse.
L'objectif principal n'a pas ete atteint a cause de la non execution des taches
essentielles pour le d6collage de l'OPG et au soutien du Ministere de tutelle.
Les difficultes sont issues des missions de supervisions qui n'ont pas pu cerner
de pres les goulots d'etranglement et attirer l'attention des decideurs au moment
opportun. il en resulte que plus de 30% du credit qui devait financier le Projet
sera annuli le 30 Avril 1996.
L'etat des decaissements au 30 Avril 1996 par categorie et par entite est
presente dans le tableau ci-dessous:
Momanta        Repar tition      Engpge au       Dicasi#   au             Non dkaisse   Non    engage
caL       allouis         par entite       30/04/ 96          30/04/ 96       au 30/04  /96      au 30/04/ 96
SOTEL     OPG      SOTEL     OPG      SOTEL      OPG     SOTEL      OPG    SOTEL   OPG
I        4.15        3,12      1,03      3,12     0,99      3.12     0.99      0,00      0,00     0,00    0,04
2         0,28       0,19      0,09      0,11     0,02      0.06      0.00     0,05      0,02     0,08    0,07
3         2.92        1,95     0,97      1,54     0.00      1,44      0.00     0.10      0,00     0,41    0,97
4         0,55        0,55               0.20       -       0.17       -       0,03       -       0,35
5         1.02        0,51     0,51      0,51      0,51     0.51      0,51     0,00      0,00     0,00    0,00
6         1,08        0.72     0,36      0,39      0,0      0,26      0,00     0,13      0,00     0,33    0,36
TOWl       10.00       7,04     2.96      5.87      1,52     5,56      1,50      0,31     0.02      1.17    1,44



38
* Assistance TechniQue au Ministere de tutelle. A la SOTELGUI et a
l'OPG:
Cette assistance technique a permis de mettre en place des structures et un
systeme de gestion renforcee au niveau de la SOTELGUI et de l'OPG et
d'elaborer un cadre organique pour la restructuration du Ministere de tutelle.
Elle a permis egalement de relever la situation financiere de la SOTELGUI de
maniere appreciable et ameliorer celle de l'OPG qui reste neanmoins fortement
subventionnee par l'Etat. Elle a egalement permis le transfert des connaissances
aux positions hierarchiques.
* Privatisation de la SOTELGUTI:
L'appui du Cabinet Arthur Andersen, retenu pour la recherche de Partenaires
prives, n'a pas aboutit. L'appel d'offires ayant ete juge infructueux, II revenait
alors au Gouvernement, dans les limites des delais qui lui etaient impartis, soit
de reviser les cahiers des charges en vue de relancer un appel d'offres
international, soit de trouver un partenaire techniquement et financierement plus
credible et repondant parfaitement a ses aspirations.
Ainsi, le Gouvernement de la Republique de Guinee, dans le souci de
promouvoir et de developper les relations de cooperation dans tous les secteurs
de l'economie Guineenne, a decide avec le Gouvernement de la Malaisie, la
negociation et la signature d'une convention d'actionnaires entre la SOTELGUI
et le TELEKOM MALAYSIA BERHAD (T1MB) le 23 Decembre 1995, dans
lequel, le TMB detient 60% des actions.
TMB au titre de cette Convention a pris en charge la gestion de la societe et a
ris sur pied un plan d'action qui portera le nombre de Lignes Principales a
100.000 dans les 5 premieres annees de partenariat correspondant au
chronogranime d'investissement ci-dessQus:
1996: 20,0 MFG
1997: 50,0MFG
1998  30,0 MFG
1999: 40,0MfG
2000: 30,0 MIFG
* Etudes Techniques:
L'lngenierie concernant le plan d'investissement de la SOTELGUI a et realis6e
au courant de la periode de l'Assistance Technique. A ce jour, cette etude a
connu un debut de realisation avant meme la privatisation.
* Eqtiinements et Maintenance:



39
Le tableau ci-dessous donne le resume des differentes realisations
Composantes et sous         Objectifs                            Realisations
composantes
Asistance Technique     Mise en place et la    - mise en place,
SOTELGUI et OPG         gestion des deux       - gestion des entites sur 17 mois
entites
Assistance Technique    Rdorganisation du      Etude de reorganisation sur un an (elaboration d'un cadre
pour la restructuration du   Ministere suite a la  organique du ministere)
Ministere                restructuration du
Secteur
Assistance Technique    Ddfinition et mise en    Confection des Cahiers de Charge et lancement d'Appel
pour la Privatisation de la  application d'une  d'Offres pour la recherche de partenairesprives
SOTELGUI                strategie de
privatisation pour la
SOTELGUI
Ingenidrie du progranmme   Ingninrie des projets   Elaboration des specifications techniques pour le
d'Investissement de la   d'extension et de     programme d'investissement pour les 3 premieres annees de
SOTELGUI                modernisation du       la Societe (une quinzaine de volumes disponibles)
reseau des
t6l6communications
Programme de Formation   Etablissement d'un    - Disponnibilite des plans de Formation approuves par
programme de          l'IDA
Formation par les 2   - Premiers contrats de formation pour la SOTELGUI
entites
Materiels et Equipements  Fourniture           - remise a niveau et extension du Central JISCOS
d'equipements de      - fourniture de materiels de reseau (cables d'installations et
soutien aux deux      de branchement, poteaux telephoniques)
entites               - rehabilitation de I'Asservissement de l'antenne de
I Wonkifong
IV. - EVALUATION DES RESULTATS
* Gestion Administrative, Comptable et Financiere:
La gestion administrative comptable et financiere du projet a connu quelques
difficultes en raison de la non mise en place d'une cellule autonome charg6e
specialement de la Gestion et de l'execution du projet. Aussi, la non ouverture
du compte special et la non mise en place des fonds de contrepartie qui auraient
enormement facilit6 l'execution du projet n'a pas permis la tenue des comptes,
et la gestion financiere et comptable est ramenee au simple suivi des
decaissements directs au titre des differentes composantes du projet.
L'efficacite de la gestion a et egalement affectee par la non maitrise des
procedures de Passation des Marches du c6te Guineen, pour lesquelles
d'ailleurs, l'IDA n'a accorde aucune souplesse. Malgre l'important volume de
travail effectue pour l'elaboration des differents Dossiers d'Appel d'Offres et les
delais excessifs et parfois abusifs pour leur traitement au niveau de l'IDA, la
mise en route des marches de fourniture n'a pas connu de commencement.



40
* Le transfert de Patrimoines de la Direction Nationale des
Telecommunications (D.N.T.) a la SOTELGUI et de la Direction Nationale
des Services Postaux ( DNSF) a l'OPG a ete effectue au demarrage meme du
projet d'Assistance.
Etudes Techniques
Les Etudes concernant les investissements prioritaires pour la SOTELGUI ont
ete menees et entierement finalisees par SOFRECOM. Le resultat de ces etudes
est disponible a la SOTELGUI.
Privatisation de la SOTELGUI
Le Cabinet Arthur Andersen a ete adjuge pour l'etude concernant le
desengagement de I'Etat vis a vis de la SOTELGUL. II a eu aussi comme
taches, 1'elaboration des Cahiers de Charges relatifs a la recherche des
partenaires Prives pour la reprise des actions de la SOTELGUTI
Equipements et Maintenance
Seule la SOTELGUI a pu beneficier de l'appui en materiel et equipement de
base et en maintenance pour les operations des Telecommunications.
L'OPG par contre, n'a jusqu'ici benefie ni de vehicules pour le transport et la
distribution du courrier, ni de materiel et mobilier de bureau, encore moins les
6quipements postaux malgre l'accord prealable de l'IDA.
Nous persistons a croire et a dire que l'humeur personnelle des fonctionnaires
qui se sont succedes au fil de 1'execution A la Division Industrie Energie et
Telecommunications de l'IDA, sous la supervision chaotique du chef de
Division actuel a grandement contribue a geler de fa,on scandaleuse les
ressources du credit affectees a ce sous - secteur.
Des plans de formation elabores et approuves par l'IDA ont et entierement
executes pour la SOTELGUI et partiellement pour l'OPG oui le besoin est
encore plus pressant.
Quant aux ressources affectees a la Tutelle, des operations pour le renforcement
de sa capacite de reglementation et de controle, aucun decaissement n'a pu &re
effectue a cause de la bienveillance de l'humeur citee plus haut.
Formation
Des plans de formation elabores et approuves par I'IDA ont ete entierement
executes pour la SOTELGUI et partiellement pour l'OPG.



41
- la creation d'une Societe des Telecommunications (SOTELGU1), le
renforcement de sa gestion.
- La creation d'une Societe publique Postale (OPG), et le renforcement de sa
gestion;
- la r6alisation d'itudes techniques: etudes en vue de la modernisation du
reseau et des services de la SOTELGUI;
- I'amelioration de 1'exploitation et de 1'entretien: fourniture d'equipement
de soutien aux entites mises en place (SOTELGUI et OPG);
- la Formation: valorisation des ressources humaines du ministere de tutelle et
des entites creees.
- la privatisation de la SOTELGUI: recherche de partenaires prives pour la
SOTELGITI.
m. - REALISATIONS EFFECTIJEES
Parmi les actions envisagees au cours de la phase preparatoire, seule l'etude qui
se rapportait a la reactivation des cheques postaux et de la caisse d'epargne n'a
pas connu d'execution. Toutes les autres actions sont executees notamment:
- 1'etude sur la restructuration des Postes et T1elcommunications;
- la coordination et l'assistance au comite interministeriel charge de la
reforme institutionnelle du secteur; et,
- la recherche d'experts operationnels a la poste et aux
telecommunications pour la mise en place et la gestion des deux entites.
L'action fondamentale fut la realisation des reformes des reglements et des
institutions qui etaient d'ailleurs des conditionnalites pour l'entree en vigueur du
credit;
* La Revision des reglements appliques au Secteur des Postes et
Telecommunications par la signature des lois et des decrets autorisant la
creation des 2 entites separees et dotees d'autonornie financiere et
commerciale;
* La reorganisation du Ministere qui devrait assumer la tutelle des 2 entites
(un Cadre Organique pour assurer les fonctions de reglementation et de
supervision a ete mis en place).
* L'Assistance Technique pour la mnise en place et la gestion au niveau des
entites SOTELGUTI et OPG, a et realisee. Deux contrats de foumiture de
prestations d'assistance technique et Administrative ont ete signes pour la
mise en place des structures et des systemes modernes de gestion
d'entreprise et le demarrage operationnel de ces entites.



42
MONTANT               POURCENTAGE
No            CATEGORIE                 TOTAL              FINANCEMENT IDA
._____________________    (nillions  DTS)
I  Services de consultants et etudes     4,15     100%
2   Formation                            0,28      100%
3   Mat6riel,vehicules et fourmitures    2,92      100%/o des depenses en devises et 80%o des
depeses en monlaie nationale
4   Travaux de gdnie civil               0,55      100% des depenses en devises et 80% des
d_penses en monnaie nationale
5   Remboursement de l Avance pour la     1,02
preparation du projet
6   Non affectd                          1,08      ___
TOTAL                 10 000 000  I___________
N.B.: a) 1'expression depenses en devise d6signe les depenses effectuees dans la monnaie de tout
pays autre que celui de l'Emprunteur pour des foumitures ou des services provenant du territoire de
tout paysautre que celui de l'Emprunteur;
b) I'expression depenses en monnaie nationale designe les depenses effectuees dans la
monnaie de I'Emprunteur pour des foumitures ou des services provenant du territoire de
I'Emprunteur.
Le projet a connu une phase de preparation au cours de laquelle, le cadre pour
1'execution du projet a ete mis en place sur la base des actions suivantes :.
- Assistance Technique pour l'etude de restructuration des Postes et
T61lcommunications;
- Assistance Technique pour 1'etude de restructuration des Cheques Postaux;
- Etude des services publics de Caisse d'Epargne et des Cheques Postaux;
- Coordination et assistance au Cornite Interministeriel charge de la reforme;
- La recherche d'Experts Operationnels a la Poste et aux Telcoms.
II. - OBJECTIF DU PROJET:
Le projet avait pour principal objectif de restructurer le secteur des Postes et
Telecommunications en vue d'amnliorer la qualite des services fournis et les
resultats financiers de ce secteur. Les composantes essentielles du projet ont
ete:
- la reforme des reglements et institutions: revision des reglements sectoriels,
reorganisation du Ministere de tutelle;



MAP SECTION






Ii                                 12-                                             10,    -                                        B-
_          j'      ' ~~~S E N  Et'  A L17    -r     
- - - - - ----                                                                                                                                                                      _J -
- -           s ~~Koundsa,  t                        
G U i       N  E A -   r                                                                                                                 Nyagossola         M    A
,-1,2-                               ,,      ,;               Mali -                            >       F* -  S
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~M  OYENNE                                                                                                                                                          12-
B I S S AJ U                           -GoualMOYENNE                           -         ;          /                                                       -1-
BISAiJ   _   J                                                                                               Didi|
-  -      Koubia
Lobe                        .      Dinguiroye                     Tinksso       Siguir,               -
/                             r OSangPrediit4 GUINEE                                      KNiandakom,                                                N
T          f ~~~Boke              Tel,m6le ,r 
G Uk  I GUNEE E                      G UIEEssKkroI                               HAUTE                                              j
0Kumsor                        Dumb0                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dabolo 0 
K.msar                                          Dalaba                                                                   6
O  *                                            Kouroussaci                  Mandiona#
*   0Tondon                         Momou                                                            (Kankan
Boffoo             M  A  R IT IM   E                                                                                 'cn
i0   (3                       _    - -tFaronoh                                            G UIN-E GUINEE               (                           10
ob       h             fF     S|I E R RA   LEON E    \                                         0Mo,baya
Conakry         Coh                                                                                                                           1
ATLANTIC                            ForncuOl,,oI
OCEAN                                  0Bcnfy                                                      fKiss,do.9oe
14            GGUINEA                                    ?                                                                    ,
t14c
MAURITANIA                                                                                                    U NAIIONAL CAPITAL  GUI NE E  . Beyla     L
/  '\    -   i   t;)   ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS                      GueLedo L            Maceotl
SENEGAL                                               *    PREFECTURF CAPITALS                                                      F >O -.-  EORESTIERE    or 
GAMBLA_-MALI                                            PP.EFECTURE BOUNDARIES                         )-
GUJNEA-/                                                          ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES          f
BISSAUL.6    GUINEA               U!FASON    8                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                         COTE           8
Conakry*                                         0                      00                   200                                       z          i                         D'IVOIRE
SIERRA LEONE         '    CC)TE                                                                                                                   r-
rn  /   j D IVORE   J-      KILOMETERS                                                      /  yomou,      j
raAo LA '                   LIBERIA'-\,           iz        heoddre l i              t    d'     h i                    L I B E R I A         ,                
ATELANTI C            LIEI                            I,'oo h, np do no-p, On -o the port ol TIte Wnrtd B.unT -rp                                                                                      to   ~  
OCA                             ,             J        on' judgment ot the Iegnl ,,ot,l ono Ierronry or ocy ndn,teme,en't-                                            
_   O C E A N                ,-or ocept-nne of s-ch bo-ndm-es                                                                                                      )                                 a
Gulf of Gutineo 1a                                                                                                                                                  ao









[MAGI lUG
Report NoD:       16077
Type: ICR



