Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5855 GUI   Type: (PM)
Title:  POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TER
Author: JEAN B0UTAN                                               Reprt No. P-5855-GUI
Ext. :374291 Room:J 4095 Dept. :ATIE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMUNT OF SDR 10.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
POST AND TELEC0QMMNICATIONS
TECHN1CAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OCTOBER 28, 1992
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUtRRENCY EQUIVALEM
Currency Unit    5    Guinean Franc
US$1.00          =    GNF 923"
GNF I million    =    US$1,083
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND AEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)     =    0.039 inches
I meter (m)           =    3.28 feet
1 square meter (mI)   -    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)      =    0.62 mile
1 hectare (a)         -    10,000 sq. meters (2.47 acres)
I metric ton (ton)    =    2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)           =    0.264 gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DNSPF            -          Direction nationale des services postaux et financiers
DNT              -          Direction nationale des telecommunications
IDA              -          International Development Association
MC               -          Mnistry of Communication
MFAIC            -          Mintry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
MPF              -          Ministry of Planning and Finance
OPO              -          Office de la poste guineenne
PANAFTEL         -          REseau panafricain de telecommunications
PESERP           -          Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privadzation
Technical Assistance Project
PPF              -          Project Preparation Facility
SG               -          Secr&taire g6nEral
SOTELGUI         -          Societe des telecommunications de GuinEe
TOR              -          Terms of Reference
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1/ December 31
1/ Exchange rates as of August 1992



FOR OFMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POSr AND TELECOMMUICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISrANCE PROJECT
Cdit and Proffl SWm=w
Borrower:              Govemnent of the Republic of Guinea
BeneficIaries:         Ministry of Communication
SocidtE des tElEcommuications de Guinde (SOTELGUI)
Office de Ia post. guinlenne (OPG)
Credit ArounU          SDR 10l0 million (JS$14.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Stxndard, with 40 years maturity
=1nanng Pbn:                            Lecal       Forign           Total
-(US$ Mlllon)
Government                               2.0                           2.0
IDA                                      0.5          14.1            14.6
2.5         14.1            16.6
EcnomiC Rate
of Retu:               Not applicable
Staff Appral Report: Not applicable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforniance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autholzation.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATON OF TH PREsiDENT
OF THE
INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO 1 EXECUE DIECORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A POST AND TEECOMMUMCATIONS
TCNICAL ASSISTANCE PLOJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 10.0 million, the equivalent
of US$ 14.6 million on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to help finance a Post
and Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project.
2.           Backgrdoun: Authority for the post and telecommunications sectors rests
with the Ministry of Communication (MC) which supervises two units, the Direction
nadwaale des tMconmuncadons tDNI) and the Direction nadonale des services posta et
,flawers (DNSPF). The country's existing postal and telecommunications facilities are
grossly inadequate and service is extremely poor. The density of 75 postal branches (in all
main and secondary provincial centers) for a country of about 7 million inhabitants is not
high, but because of inefficiency and lack of transportation the traffic is very low. As the
management and mantence of the teleconmunications network is very deficient, there are
ony 7,600 working main telephones lines throughout the country, for a penetration of 0.11
main lines per 100 inhabitants, which is about one third the average for Western Africa and
compares with an estimated sustainable demand of about 30,000 main lines. Because
administraion, finances and accounting are weak and poorly managed, the recovery rates for
private telecommunications subscribers (15%) and public sector users' consumption (60%) are
very poor. Consultants are preparing a plan of action for substantially improving the rate of
recovery of telecommunications services, with a target of 35% by mid-1993.
3.           In 1991, within the framework of the Public Enterprise Law, the Government
announced its intention of disengaging progressively from operation of communications
services. At a donors' meeting in Paris in March 1992, the Government staed that it had
decided to modernize and restructure the post and telons services, with a view to
operi  them on a commercial basis. It would: (a) ensure provision of telecommunications
and postal services on a commerciaWly managed basis, and privatized in the case of
telecommunications; and (b) reorganize the Ministry of Communication to emphasize its new
role for policy and regulation of the sector. These reforms are contained in the Government's
Statement of Post and Telecommunications Sector Policy. The main innovation is thus
separation of regulating and operating functions, with MC to be responsible for regulation on
the one hand, and two public companies, the Sodi& des Midcommunicaions (SOTELGUI)
and the Office de la poste guindenne (OPG), to be responsible for operations, on the other.
4.           Laws on Telecommunications and Postal services, and the Decrees authorizing
the creation of SOTELGl;I and creating OPG were signed on June 2, 1992. lhese Laws
grant the monopoly of public services to the new two entities, establish a regulated
partership between them and the Ministry and, importantly, also encourage competition for
new services in related areas, between private and public companies.



-2-
5.           vro3Ica Obct: IsThe main objective is to develop progressively a modern
communications sector, which is essential for the development of the country's economy.
Under the project, the immediate objectives are to put in place a appropriate institutional
framework, provide reliable basic postal and telecommwnications services and then open the
sector to regulated competition (e.g., data transmission, mobile telephone, express mail), with
adoption of policies designed to ensure efficient and reliable service standards. Such an
approach will encourage participation of the private sector in telecommunications, improve
basic services by buttressing SOTEL(UI's operation, as well as provide access to new fast
growing services, under competition.
6.            .ect esmWgf   The project has two major orientations: launching
SOTELGUI and OPG on a firm basis, by financing key appointments in administrative and
operational positions; and reorganizing the Ministry as the policy-maker and regulator for the
sector. The project includes the following components: (a) two years of assistance for
institution building ($3.5 million); (b) reorganization of the Ministry of Communication ($0.3
million), particularly concerning its supervisory functions (planning, tariff and financial
policies, social policy, service quality) and regulatory functions (frequency control, licenses to
operate networks or to sell equipment); (c) the search for professional partners for
SOTELGUI ($0.2 million), in accordance with the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization
and Privatization Technical Assistance (PESERP) project's privatization framework (Cr. 2398
-GUI); (d) engineering studies for priority telecommunications and postl investments ($2.1
million); (e) a speciaized training program for SOTELGUI and OPO ($0.5 million); (f)
building renovation and provision of office equipment ($1.0 million); and (g) supply of spare
parts, stores materials and support equipment for operation and rehabilitation ($4.3 million).
7.    Breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and disbursement, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Guinea are given in Schedules C and D respectively. More detailed information
on the proposed project is provided in the Technical Annex.
8.            rgjStI Fnancing: IDA will finance technical assistance and a priority
maintenance program, for a total of about $14.6 million equivalent, including contingencies
and reimbursement of the PPF: 100% of foreign osts and 80% of local costs for the building
renovation and the supply of spare parts. The Government will finance local costs, estimated
at about $2.0 million, including contingencies. The total project cost will be $16.6 million
equivalent. In parallel, PESERP will finance $0.9 million worth of related consultancy work
for SOTELGUI and OPG.
9.           Iojt hnpltation: MC will be responsible for project implementation,
acting through a Steering Committee, set up in May 1992. It is responsible for: (a) enforcing
initia limiting measures, including new appointments in the sector with reference to June
1992 staff listings, tariff increases every six months in line with inflation rates, improvement
of recovery rate to 35% in mid-93 and and a 30% reduction in consumption of telephone
services by government agencies; and (b) the execution of the project, including supervision
of technical assistance, reorganization of the Ministry, with the appointment of a directorate
supervising the sector, engineering studies, supply of operation and maintenance components.
MC will also coordinate with the other Ministries, througb an Iminial Committee for
the Reform of the Sector. The scope of postal services would be limited to the main
provincial cities and would not include financial services. At the agreed date of transfer of



- 3 -
assets and operation to SOTELGUI and OPG, the Government will assume responsibility tor
the Ministry's prior financial obligations and retain short-term financial assets. IDA would
liaise regularly with SOIELGUI and the Governnxent in discussions and negotiation with
prospective professional partners. Liaison will be maintaiwed with PESERP, which is setting
up a comprehensive and transparent privatihation process in several sectors. No date has been
set for the selection of private partners, but the Government intends to move as expeditiously
as possible in the light of market responses. The Government and IDA will jointly carry aut
a mid-term review of the project, one year after the management teams have started their
work.
10.          The management teams in SOTELGUI and OPG will develop systems and
procedures to manage operations efficiently. Tbis will help improve the quality of services,
restore the relationship with customers and establish an improved collection system from both
private and government subscribers. The management contracts will have targets related to
staffing plans, accounting systems, tariff policy, budget preparation, program contracts and
other dated performance indicators. The teams will be composed of six managers in
SOTELUI in line positions, one of which will be the general manager, and three managers
in OPO also in line positions, one of which will be the general manager. It was agreed at
negotiations that, in order to provide the management teams with autonomy and distance them
from Directors who will all represent Ministries on the Boards, the Directors will delegate
adequate authority to them through the management contracts, for staff management,
connection policies and decision-making in current technical and administrative matters. The
first task of the teams would be to develop a staffing plan, covering training and separation
programs, an1  to prepare a detailed training program.
I1.          Prolect Sustainabllltv: The disengagement of Government from provision of
tlecommunications and postal services will alleviate its administrative and financial burden.
The proposed program of institutional reform will introduce commercial practices in
SOTELGUI and OPG which are expected to lead to sector sustainability. Those practices will
enable SOTELGUI to increase its call recovery rate from 15% to 80% within two years, set
up new management tools and a new tariff policy which will improve its financial,
administrative and technical operation. The rates of postal services would be kept at
internationally comparable levels and would thus reduce postal losses. Furthermore, the
regulatory framework will encourage competition in new services and increase the overall
demand for communications services.
12.          Lesons from Previous IDA Involvement: There has been no prior operation
in the communications sector. The Bank's experience in the electricity, petroleum and water
sectors has shown that the major cause of poor performance in public utilities comes from
inept and often compromised management and political interference, which can be a serious
hindrance to improving performance. It is to remedy this situation that private partnership is
sought, as it is expected to have a freer hand in increasing business efficiency, within a
prescribed regulatory framework, and ensure transparency, better governance and
independent, professional management.
13.          Rationale for IDA Involvement: IDA country strategy in Guinea is to
improve the efficiency of the economy by removing obstacles to private sector development,
Improving governance and building the buman resource base. The main objective of the
proposed project is in line with this strategy. IDA has extensive technical, financial and
economic experience in the postal and telecommunications fields in Africa, is the lead agency



-4-
and is coordinting activtes with other lenders (such as France, Germany and Kuwait), to
imprwove the viability of tie sector. At the same time, IDA can advise on new
telecommunIcatIons services that would be open to competition.
14.          &0=  Alrd: The Government has esablished SOTELGUI and OPG,
with statutes acceptable to IDA. Effectiveness conditions include appointmeat of Board
members to SOMLGUI and OPO and approval by IDA of their utility agments,
satsfactory evidence of a free in recruitment In SOTELGUI and OPG, commitment to a
tariff increase linked to inflation every six monts, and evidence of 30% reduction in
consumption of telecommunications services by government agencies, setting up the
directorate supervising post and telecommunications within the Ministry of Communication
(para. 9), and cormation of the decision to appoint the SOTELGUI and OPO management
teams in line positions, with full authority (para. 10). Ihe Development Credit Agreement
includes dated targets in the management teams' conracts with the endties (para. 10), which
could lead to credit suspension if not met; and committments of the Governmet to sign the
contracts transferring assets and responsibility for operating basic services to SaOELGUI and
OPO, not later than June 30, 1993. Subscribers' arrears, debt service on equipment acquired
prior to SOTELGUI's establishment and debt to foreign telecomnications dmistraons,
k.wever, will remain the responsibility of the Government (par. 9). They also requie that
lJLz. Directors delegate authority to the management teams (parm. 10), and that Goverment
pay Its telecoications invoices quarterly. It was also agreed at negotiations that a unit
would be specially set up to recover revenues and that telecommunications revenues received
by the Government prior to SOTELGUI being fully operational will be put in escrow, as part
of Governmens contribution to SOTELGUI's net worth. Furthermore, disbursement for the
trining component will be subject to the presentation of a detailed training program
aceptable to IDA, and disburement for the spare parts, store matrials and support
equipment for operaion and rehabilitation component will be subject to the transfer of
responsibility from DNT and DNSPF to SOTELGUI and OPO. Conditions agreed are
detaid in pagaphs 36 to 38 of the Technical Annex.
1S.           onment: Like other technica assistance operations, this project has no
direct eionmental impact and is classified in the C category. However, the engineeing
studies contain provision for a limited environmental analysis, as prescribed for
telecounications projects (B category).
16.          Proee Obje   Cateoie  As public entrprises, SOTELGUI and OPG
are parts of the priority group of entities to he restructured and some of ihem privatized.
17.          :roect lefts The major benefit would be in the form of better
communication services, made possible by improved management and adequate recovery
rates. Moreover, wider benefits are expected ffom the reform of the telecommn ications
sector and its eventu  privatization, as it is expected to help provide business ad residential
customers with more reliable and diversified services at reasonable cost, in contrast to the
current situation.
18.          BEsk: A risk common to both post and telecommunications sectors is the
slowness on the part of the Government in project implementation, which may jeopardize
expected benefits. The main risk, on the tele uni   side, is whether and when
pofssionalpartuers would be inet  in SOTELGUI, given the current status of operation,
serices nd finance. If the partneship process is too slow, the momentum of improvement



-5
would be much impaired. This is mitigated by the strong technical assistance and the
commitment of the Government and lenders* community to restructure the sector.
Availability of counterpart funds may also be a bottleneck but recently approved funding
procedures should resolve this problem and the risk will be e!'iminated for telecommunications
when SOTELGUI begins operations.
19.          cK: I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments



-6-
!A BC OF GUINE
POS  AND TELECOMMNICATIONS TCNCAL ASSJSTANCE PROJECT
lmaled         Cand   nim Pa
(Ib us$ MUlio)
LOCL POEQB II&
-UUS$ Million-
ESTIMTED COSTS*
Opaional Tedhnical Assistance
support to SOTELGUI                            0.4        2.45      2.85
SUPPOtt to OPG                                 0.2        1.05      1.25
Study  br  r n of MC                             0.1        0.3      0.4
Search for professional parurs                   0.1       0.2       0.3
Engeering studies                                0.5        2.1      2.6
Specaized trang proam                            0.2        0.5      0.7
Rhaitation of buildn and equipment               0.3        0.8      1.1
Opeaton and mainte e components                  0.4        4.0      4.4
Reimbursement of PPP                             -          1.5      1.5
Total Poect cost wot oenes                       2.2       12S      151.
Contingencies                                    0.3        1.2      1.5
Tot Project Cost with contlgendes                2.5       14.1     16.6
Goverment                                        2.0        -        2.0
IDA                                              0.5       14.1     14.6
Total                                            2.5       14.1     16.6
*net of es
JB_  I-'



-7-
- 7-j
scHm B
Pa 1 qf 2
REPUBIC OF GULIN
POW AND TELBCOMUICAION8 TCAL ASSISTANCE
Pzojucr
@1US  Mlm..)
PROJECf COMPWW  ICK                    LCB               0nal   0               Total
Shopping
Bulgding rh bitaon        1.1                                                    .1
(1.0)                                                  (1.0)
Cal matr                  2.1                                                    2.1
(2.0)                                                 (2.0)
Too1s, meaing oequpm      0.6                        0.2                         0.8
(0.6)                      (0.2)                       (0.8)
switcbng                                 0.2           0.6          0.8
Transmisi  and Solar                                (0.2)          (Q6V         (0.8)
Power
Of   equipmet                          0.5           0.2                         0.7
(0.4)        (0.2)                       (0.6)
Vedes                     03                         0.2                         0.5
(0.3)                      (0.2)                       (0.5)
Scholarships and                                                   0.7           0.7
Conultntsfor Trainng(05                                                       (0.5)
O0r Consulns                                                      'i.9           9.9
(8.40        (8.4)
Total                     4.1           0.5           0.8          11.2          16.6
(3.9)        (0.4)         (0.8)         (9.5)         (14.6)
F/igurmsin pvd arothe amuisflnanced by DA
ZI Loca Competti BMd
YI OtkwheInldes Bans guldellu for disuse of ostw
&If Direct contrct for proritary eupkmen
be/IncI4eppp  lb  ao



-8-                                          SCHUMR
Pdp 2 Of 2
A. DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
,ategory      (USS M ueon)                % of ExpeniUre
1. Consultant Services                    6.1             100%
2. Trag                                   0.4             100%
3. Equipmet/Vehicles                      4.3             100% of foreign expenditures
80% of local epedure
4. Building Reibabilitation               0.8             100% of frep expditures and
80% of local epdiure
5. PPF Refinancing                         1.5            Amount due
6. Unallocated                             1.5
rATL              ad
B. DISBURSEMNT SCUEDULE
IDA JIca Year
Estimated IMA
Dis_ursements           1993                 1994                 199S
Anmual                  2.5                  8.1                  4.0
cuamultive               2.5                 10.6                  14.6



t  j g                I:.           §
R~ ~ ~ & 
IE [I                                 Ii0p §t    
X  i  !tslg              R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
E       X    |           |~~~
8       0~~



- 10 -
Page I f 3
REPUBLIC OF GUIEA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND PRIVATI7ATION
TECHNCAL ASSNSTANCE PROJECT
StatWs of Bank Grouli Ogerations in Guinea
SuMMary Statenent of Bank Loans and ID4 Credits
(As of July 21, 19M2)
LAuor C u        amlYe r   Bromwur    POp Bo                                    IMA      U_afte         Clal
20 C_t         CIO"
C12340tll        1         UleA       IDUSTY REIAOIC                               19.00           .22  12/3U191(11
Ca3410            3       GUA         EDATON                                      11.00             93  12190
C16360.GI      196        GUINEA      1r AG SERv                                   7.5o0           297  063. 2
C172S0wU       19t7       GutNEA      UVSTOCSECOR                                  9.0             600  12/3/92
C*,819S          V7        uNe        TRAMN SB JtR                                 5.00           24.06  0639
C18370w=       18         GUINA       POP/wATI                                     19.70          7.76   MM3193
CIMSEIGU       1C         GUINEA      ARIUSEEDS                                    9.00            2392  0309
C:91So         196I       GUEA         IEWAYS IV                                  55.00           46.32  1213V93
C604           1968       GUIEA       SALI                                        65.00           37.07  12M3190
C19            1969       GUINA       RESEARC IDcNS                                1AO            150  1W1
C190.GUI       1989       GUNEN       SECOND 9m         SUPPO                      14.50          2.15  O39
c"WSO          199        GUINEA      WATER I                                     40.00           21.61  1013V6
c1OaUI         1969       GUINA         A                                          9.00            84  1a1"
04I            1990       GUINA       PORESTRY=& FUMERY 2                          8.00           6.09  00"
C2100 I        m190       GUA         NAT RUALIRATRUC                             40.00           37.18  1215
c1UOU          1990       GU.A        SBCOND URBAN                                57.00           55.42  12131/95
C214 U         1990       OUINA       PRIVATESETORPROMO                           50.00           27.59  03092M)
csau           1990       GUIEA       EDUC SCADW PR AM                            20.00           15.40  06/3
3980           1992       GUINEA      P. REFORM                                    7.30           7.70   2315
C24070         1993        UINEA      AOL EXPORT. PROMO                           20.J0           20.10
TOrAL NO C   20                                                                   536.10         35034
T<l *                                                   73.5      705.30
oWhichspi                                               70.22       3.26
Tc ld by BEk & DA                                        3.2S     762.06
Tqd                                                                     -    .bao
TEll uad*50.52s
* Tota Apprved, Ro_ynct, ad Outanding bahace rpnt both activ an iactiv Las and CredLos.
(R) indicte &oraly rvised Clgosg Dates.
(3) indica  SAIJSECAL Loa  and Crdt.
Mm Not Approved and Bk Repayment ame histra vauei, all odm am ndt vau.



- 11 -
GENERIC IMPLENATION ISSUES
In 198S, after a new govme  had launchd the transition fm a marxist system to a Maeteonomy, Guea
benefed from a ubstantally _nasd  stream of project aki  However, becauw of wve     in the cvii service, it
had trouble absorbing this flow. New IDA commtmet exc'eded disursmes by a large margn and undisbursed IDA
commi       accmated to an amount of US$ 440 mnlion by the end of 1990. Facing sevee f     and Imlimaton
problems, it slowed WL)A lending. in lune 1992, undisbursed commmts had decreased to USS 315 milli
To aist Guinea in implemting the IDA projecs, the Bank focussed its adjustment policies on civil service
refom. It increased  bstanally the staffing of the Residen Mission and project supervisi  b also finad, through
Its projects, substat tehnical assistame, sometimes in liHe Sactions.
In June 1991, the Bank organzed a Country Implm n Review to deino a comm   approach to the existig
problems. hi riew concluded tiat besides pecific project isses, a number of generic ilemen    probem ha
to be addressed. ITee were: (a) slow procumnent and payment procedures; (b)    e        povi     of budget
c oritionto fo          faned projects due to misguid  spedg piiti, poor finnci discipline and weak revenue
peformance; and (c) deays in critica project decisioas. In September 1991, a Bank min reommended changes in
Procure    and payment produres that th Goverment now is Ilementing, and agreed on quwately dt u
of budget cnterpa funds. In Feay 1992, the Govenme  changed budge priridti in favor of foeig financed
projects to unblock a number ofprojects. However, due to pers   liquidy problems, the new seding priorties were
not folly dective through the first quarw of t992. In May 1992, the Genm ent adopted additional fiscal measur
to alleviate the liquWty problem, that are now under Implementtion



-12 -                                                      DHHnt
Page 3 of 3
MuMy Statetment of InEvesiment
(As of Jum 30,1992)
Odra Gross c _IM
Loan       Equity      Total
Fisal      Borowr                         Type of 8ushi                 USS Milon
Year
1983       Socit mit. Aredor Guh S.A.  Diamond Mining            13.6         1.2       14.8
1986      DBanquo InatInal. pourM 1       Commeria bank           -           1.0        1.0
Com. et do lad. de o  GuinE
1987       SoiE  ht. des Granites Mubres   Research and           0.1         -          0.1
at Roches Assmle (SIGMAR)    Delopmeit                                        7.5
1988       Auti   de GunEa                Gold Minng              7.5         -
Toted C   o_w&nmft                                    21.2        2.2        23A
L.ess Cancellations, Reayments,                       14.4        1.2        15.6
Saks an Excang Atad                    _o
Net  X     _  Now Hld Bj                                                      L ,i
iPC
m __-



- 13 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Bnckg round
A - 1. Current Situation in the Post and Telecommunications Sector and early Bank
1.           The Bank was not involved in telecommunications in Guinea at Independence.
Although Guinea had benefitted from international financing to modernize its network, the
technical and managerial situation of the sector was poor at the time of the first Bank mission
in 1987, and this triggered the Bank to propose a reform program to the Government (para.
9).
2.           Telecommunications Sub-sector. With few exceptions, the network has been
built or renovated since 1980, and investments were financed by a variety of lenders,
including Germany, France, Japan and Norway. Conakry and its suburbs are equipped with
three switching stations and distribution networks, and eleven switching stations and
corresponding networks equip the provincial centers. Microwave transmission lines of more
than 2,000 km connect the provincial centers to Conakry through three routes. International
links are made through the PANAFTEL network with neighbouring countries, and an Intelsat
satellite with the rest of the world. However, installations are saturated, maintenance is poor,
as there is not enough qualified staff and organization is inadequate. There are frequent and
long breakdowns, and quality of communications is well below the modest level of most Sub-
Saharan countries. Provincial subscribers are de facto cut off ftom international traffic.
3.           The infrastructure is inadequate, with about 1 1,000 main telephone lines,
though only 7,600 are presently serviced, because of full capacity and poor maintenance of
local networks (actual penetation is 0.11 lines per 100 inhabitants, about one third the
average of Western Africa). There is presendy considerable loss in revenues, as sustainable
demand is currently estimated at 29,000 main lines, and 36,000 by 1995.
4.           Billing and collection are a major problem of the telecommunications
operation. Whereas, in other African countries, goverrment consumption varies between 10
and 15% of total consumption, it reaches 60% in Guinea, 20% within the Ministry of
Communication (MC) and 40% in other ministries. Only 15% of the present administrative
consumption of an amount estimated at $8.0 million equivalent in 1992 are budgeted. It is
estimated that 25% of main connected lines are not billed. The recovery rate on private
billing of about $8.2 million equivalent in 1992 is 15%. Total recovery from billed
consumption is about $2.4 million equivalent.
S.           Postal Su  tr. The postal network includes six brarches in Conakry and
69 in the provinces (to cover 330 districts), some of which are without any activity. The
Goverment wishes to maintain at least a full postal coverage in all 34 district head towns, for



- 14 -
political and social reasons. As postal boxes are scarce and tasportation between branches
in Conakry and the provinces is difficult and traffic extremely low, with 1,800 outgoing and
4,000 incoming items daily, the rehabilitation effort will necessarily be long and should be
coneentrated in the main centers. In fact, most traffic is between Conakry and Europe.
6.           Lack of confidence in the postal services is widespread: the traditional
business in money orders is almost extinct, with only four daily orders in the country,
because the branches have no cash. New services such as express mail are still litde
developed (6 items are daily sent from the country). Postal savings and cheque services have
been discontinued for about ten years and cannot presently be reactivated within the banking
system.
7.           Sector           . Although the situation recendy formally changed (para.
13), Guinea Is one of the few countries where post and telecommunications are still managed
as ministerial departnents, under the following structure: Direction natdonawe des
tlOcmmwalcadons (DNT) and Direcion nadonale des serices postaux etfinancwers
(DNSPF) within MC. As a result, there is no commercial autonomy and structure in the
provision of services. The departments' deficits and investments are funded by the national
budget, their disbursements and revenues are recorded in the public non-accrual accounting
system, and, as a consequence, there are neither specific forecasts nor budget control and
investments are inadequate.
8.           There are no accounting records and financial management, no cash
management (it is centralized at the Treasury) and no commercial incentive to provide
services efficiently. The quality of staff performance is low and there is no career
development.
9.           Bank involvement in the sector. Following a Bank mission, the Government
set up, in 1989, a Comi& intermlnstriel de suMiv de la rffobme du secteur des postes et des
tdlcommunlcadons, which agreed to start restructuring the sector and examine ways of
improving the operation of telecommunications. To this end, in January 1990, the Bank
granted a PPF to the Government. However, the hiring of consultants required to implement
the PPF-financed program was delayed until August 1991.
A - 2. Sector Poligy
10.          Statement of Sector Policy. As a guideline for restructuring the sector, in
August 1991, the Government adopted a Statement of Sector Policy for both
telecommunications and postal services. The Statenent provides that the supervising ministry
would be reorganized, to be responsible for policy and regulation of the sector (para. 23) and
that operating functions would be under the responsibility of two commercially autonomous
entities. The Statement stipulates that the telecommunications company could have private
shareholders. Laws and Cahiers des chargeslUtility Agreements further describe the
functioning of the sector. The latter include: rules of operation of basic services, relations
with subscribers, requirements of the universal service and interconnection procedures, -quality
and availability of services, standards of equipment, range of frequencies, participation in low
yield Government projects, management and finances, relations with other government
agencies and strategic specialized telecom networks. Multi-year Program contracts will define
the reciprocal obligadons between the Government and the two entities, concerning h
objectives for service coverage and operation, means to achieve them, tariffs goals,



-15 -
Investment program and resource mobDization, payment by Government tor its use of
teleconmiuncaons and postl services, other services rendered by the entities, and flow of
fwds betwen the entides and Government.
11.          EWyzu_. The Government took action In August 1991 to improve the
situation of the sector:
(a)   sopping recruitment of new staff, with reference to a computer print-out of
June 1992, listing 1030 employees in telecommunications and 290 in post;
(b)   telecommunicadons tariff Increased by 33%, effecdve on January 1, 1992, and
nrther increases, every six months, to be linked to future inflation rates;
(c)   sewting up a team within MC, with the assistance of specialized consultants
(para. 12), to work in the second half of 1992 with the objective of increasing
the total recovery rate from the current 15% to a target of 35%, to be reached
by about mid-1993;
(d)   reduction in consumption of MC and rest of Govenment by 30% by the end
of 1992, compared to Jau   1992, and reducdon of number of telephone
lines in ministries from 1,500 to 800 by about mid-1993;
(e)   tight suprion of manual opeators in intercity an intaional traffic,
from Jlly 1992 on, and strengthening the technical teams in charge of traffic
supervision, and installation testing, and suburban lines; and
(f)   looking for financing a portable 1,500 lines switching station, to be installed
by end of 1993.
Conditions of effectiveness will be a commitment by the Minister of Communication that
there has been no new recruitment since June 1992, satisfactory evidence of increases in
tarffs linked to inflation since January 1992 and reduction of 30% in Government's
consumption of telephone services. It was agreed at negotiations that, before the transfer date
of operaton and assets from DNT and DNSPF to SEGIUI (para. 31), there be no new
recruimt, incrses of tariffs be further linked to inflation since January 1992, the recovery
rate be increased to 35%, and the number of telephone lines be reduced in Government
offices. On May 25, 1992, a Supervisory committee, in charge of reform implementation
was appointed, under the chaimanship of the MC Secretary General.
12.          Lenders' meeting in Pari. Lenders were asked, in late 1991, to cooperate in
reforming the sector. Early in 1992, CCCE agreed to finance the investigation of the
recovery procedures, end has now proposed satisfactory actions to improve billing and
collecdon substantially. Meanwhile, the PPF-fingnced consultants worked on meas  for
implementi  sector policy: draft legal documents for the two separate legal enties, an
inventory of fixed assets and opening balance sheets (paras. 28 and 29, and Schedule 1), the
struure of the new two entities, personnel statutes, needs and training, and a three-year
priority investment progrm for telecommunications. In March 1992 at a meeting in Paris, in
the presence of the main lenders to Guinea, the Government approved the documents prepared
by the consultants and statWJ that the new entities would be free from all financial obligations
incurred prior to their establishment (para. 31). It then agreed on a technical assistance
project to be implemented by IDA, coordinated with other intetested lenders. It was also
agreed that consultants be selected according to Bank's guidelines to design the most
economical solution for mplementing the priority investment program, of about US$60
million equivalent, with tendering forming part of subsequent projects.



- 16 -
13.          On June 2, 1992, the Presiden signed the decree (D1921141/PRGISGG)
authodan the creation of the public company, Soc    des tdlcmmwdcadosde Gkdnie
(SOT ELGUI), the decree (DM92/142/PRG/SGG) creating the Offie de la poste guddene
(OPO), the Telecommunications Law (L19210161CI1RN) and the Law concerning the posta
services (LIJ92/015/CTRN) (para. 10). The statutes of the entities and their persomnel statutes
will be established by decrees. The reglatory framework govening SOTELGUI and OPG
vests large powers in the boards of directors of these companies. Although this appears to
guarantee independent management of the entities, the expectation is tempered by the expected
nomiation of representatives of ministries to those boards (pia. 21). 'Me open  balance
sheets will be certified by local public acoountants. The members of the Boards of Directors
would then be appointed. Consequently, SOTELGUI and OPG will provide services to
subscrioers under their own management and make new investments within an agreed budget,
as soon as responsibility for operations and assets are transferred to them by the Government
(pam. 31). Conditions of Board presenttion will be signing of the order creating SOTELGUI
and approval of SOTELGUI and OPG Statutes by IDA. Conditions of effectiveness will be
appointment of members of SOTELGUI and OPG Boards of Directors and IDA's approval of
SOTELGUI and OPG Utility agreements.
14.          Th'e Telecommunications Law allows for a concessionaire to operate basic
services under a monopoly, for a period of up to twenty years. That concessionaire will be
SOTELGUI. New services and value-added services can be licensed to private operators, in
or without competition with SOTELGUI, but the duration of such licenses will probably be
much shorter than twenty years. Supply and maintenance of telecommunications equipment at
subscribs' premies can be provided by private operators under licensing agreemet.
The Postal Law grants OPG the monopoly to carry and distribute all letters and packages of
less than 1 kilogram and to produce and cancel stamps. Exception can be made to the
monopoly by decree.
D. Detailed Project DosdZiftio
B - 1; Pxoject Objectives
15.          The main objective is to develop a modern communications sector, asenal
for the development of the country's economy. The project will achieve this by putting in
place an insttional framework that would open the sector to competition in order to provide
for better and more efficient services to subscribers. Basic services must be available to all
consumers at specified rates: national and itrnional services for telephone and telex, and
for post in Conakry ad the main provincial centers. They can be provided in associaton
with professional partns, when such association promises to be more efficient. New
services, which are growing very fast in the telecommunications sector, are more of a
commrcial nature and are provided at competitive rates. However, the quality and reliability
of those services should be in compliance with established reglation. Smooth   atioDn of
the sector will require that the Ministry be well stmctured and able to assume its suvisory
and regulatory functions to formulate clear rules of competition, and that the entities
supplying basic telecommunications and postl services be well run and offer the best
combination of quality of service and price. Furthermore, to ensure that the privatization of
SOTELGUI is implemented in accordance with the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization
and Prization Technical Assistance project (PESERP, Cr. 2398 - GU), coordinaion will



- 17 -
be maintained during ImplemenMtion with PESERP's Privatization committee, in order to
obtain as much management transparency as possible.
1B-2. hoisctCompop
16.           uMmiv. Tbe Govermment agreed with the Bank that, following the creation
of SOTELGUI and OPG, the services of management teams for about two years would be
necessary to transform miniswial departments into well managed and separate legal entities
(para. 10). Moreover, the Government decided that the telecommunications objectives of the
project would be more securely attained with professional partners in SOTELGUL. It has thus
been furher agreed with the Government that, in order to attract such partners to
SOTELGUI, it should be adequately managed before partnership negotiations start.
Consequendy, the management team should structure SOTELGUI, while the search for
partners proceeds. The project will have the following components, which zre detailed in
further paragraphs:
(a)   sector legal and institutional reform, and strengthening of SOTELGUI and
OPG through management teams in line positions, for contracts of one year
renewable: 105 staffmonths for SOTELGUI and 45 staffmonths for OPG, with
adequate support from headquarters and local services;
(b)   reorganization of the Ministry, so that it can assume its supervisory and
regulatory functions in the sector: 15 staffinonths of technical assistance;
(c)   search for professional partners for SOTELGUI;
(d)    preparation of the engineering studies, which would make the
telecommunications investment priority program ready for implementation:
100 staffmnonths and support from headquarters;
(e)    a specialized training progm; and
M     pats, materials and equipment for operation and rehabilitation.
17.          miagemnTa  - SlOT         UI. The key to making SOTELGUI successfu
is to give it sufficient authority to act independently as an efficient commercial company.
This requires the help of a competent management team able to take responsibility, i.e.,
placed in line positions. The firm, selected in accordance with Bank guidelines for selection
of consultant, would manage SOTELGUI through six high level executives, at all times
acceptable to IDA: the general manager also in charge of planning, the financial and
accounting, human resources and general administration, supplies and logistics, marketing,
and production managers (organizadon in Schedule 2). The general manager would report to
the Board of Ditectors. The managers would be hired for a period encompassing about
eighteen months, with a mechanism lining their remuneration to their performance, and they
would be assisted by Guinean staff selected for their competence and would train them. The
responsibility of operation and administration in Conakry and in provinces would be entrusted
to Guinean professional staff.
18.          The management team would be responsible for defining and setting up the
organization of SOTELGUI, and implementing the staffing plan and all systems and
procedures of management. Ibis concerns technical operation, financial and accounting
management (particularly billing and collection), procurement and inventory of all assets,
marketing and commercial relations with subscribers, tariff, human resources (personnel and
long term career management, training), general administration, logistics, planning and
developmt implementation. The management team would also be responsible for on-the-job



- 18 -
training. Its first assignments would be, on the financial side, to set up the customers'
accounts and to improve billing and collection further, and, on the human resource side, to
hire new staff and place them and existing staff, according to qualifications and positions
under the new stantues, and to make decisions about excess staff, with the help of a human
resource specialist, as the present estimates are tentaive. The human resource specialist will
also prepare a training plan.
19.          Targets will be spelt out in a management contract with SOTELGUI, which
will be finalized with the Govemment before February 28, 1993 and will help monitor the
actions of the team of the selected firm: (a) a staffing plan, including placement, recruitment
and separation, to be presented within two months of the human resource tean arrival (para.
32) and no later than April 30, 1993, and to be implemented before the transfer date (para.
31); (b) an accounting system, including a management information system, to be presented
within two months of the whole team's arrival (tar 32), monitored by an acceptable audit
firm, and to be implemented by the end of 1993; (c) a tariff policy, taking into considerarion
the current recovery rate, to be presented within same two months and to be implemented by
the end of 1993, (d) preparation of annual operating and investment budgets and three-year
financial projections, by October 31, 1993; (e) signing of a thre-year revolving program
contract between the Government and SOTELGUI before September 30 of each year, and (t)
compliance with dated technical and financial performance indicators, related to number of
working telephone lines, frequency of faults and time to repair them, call completion, billing
and recovery rates (Schedule 3). All those targets are included in the Development Credit
agreemet. Non compliance with target dates can lead to suspension.
20.          Management Team - OPG. As in the case of SOTELGUI, a management
team of three high level executives will be selected to run OPO, who will be at all times
acceptble to IDA: general manager, accoundng and general administration, and production
and markeedng managers. The general manager would report to the Board of Directors. The
managers would be hired for a period encompassing about eighteen months, with a
mechanism linking their remuneration to their performance. As in the case of SOTELGUI,
the management team would be responsible for defining and setting up OPO's organization.
As the team would have priority work with rehabilitation of basic postal services, including
transportation between the towns, with limited investment needs, and restoring trust in OPG's
ability to perform them, in the main eight centers, there would be no resources for the full
coverage of the country (para. 5). Possible widening of coverage will be explored in the
1993 program contract. Moreo8er, reestablishing financial services under the postal umbrella
is not a priority (para 6). The first assignments for the team would be, as in
telecommunications, aimed at the financial and human resources aspects. Similar
implementation targets, included in the Development Credit agreement, will be spelt out in the
management contract with OPG to monitor the actions of the management team, concerning
the staffing plan, the accounting system, the tariff policy, annual operating and investment
budgets, program contract and performance indicators, related to mail distribution time,
number of postal boxes and development of express mail. Non compliance with target dates
can lead to suspension.
21.          Maame  Autmy. To ascertain that the management teams will be able
to operate efficiently SOTELGUI and OPG, a condition of effectiveness would be that the
Government causes the Boards of Directors of the entities to delegate adequate decision-
making authority to the management teams in line positions. Such authority will include
hiring and fring staff, connecting and disconnecting subscribers, responsibility for expenses



- 19 -
In the budget in compliance with procurement rules, implementing the tariff policy and
Improving billing and collecdon. Confirmation of the conformity of the delegation of
authority with the regulation of the sector is also a condition of effectiveness.
22.          Facilities for the Management Teams. A government-financed building is
under construction to house OPO's headquarts at the end of 1992, and the services of the
Ministry will be transferred to another government building at about the same time. Tne
buflding presenty occupied by MC will thus be available to house SOTELGUl's headquarters
and central services. It has the necessary area of 1,000 square meters but requires renovation
and reorganization of space and aquipment to correspond to updated needs. Funds for the
rehabilitation of the building and provision of equipment are a component of the project.
23.          BiRVganizUgftheMinhig. Proposals for a supervisory and regulatory
framework for MC, as outlined in the Statement of Sector Policy (para. 10), and their
implementation are being prepared under the PPF. Tbe Ministry will be reorganized to
enable it to:
(a)   coordinate the management of public services in the sector of post and
tecommunications, including the definition of sector policy (pFlnning, tariff
policy, financial policy, socW and rura policies, service quality), the
supervision of the public service opators, SOTELGUI and OPG, and
eventuly private operators, through the enforcement of the Laws and Utility
Agreements and preparation/negotiation of Contract Programs, and relations
with other mistries and public agencies dealing with the sector;
@) manage sector regulations, related to frequency controls, licemes to operate
networks and auhorizations/agreements to sell equipment, establishing
standards of equipment, quality of service and interconnection requirements,
and opeat the equipment necessary for such supervision;
(c)   be responsible for the interational affairs of the sector; and
(d)   organize and supervise specialized training for the sector.
The implementation and initial supervision of the reorganiation of MC will require about 15
stafmonths of professional expertise. Ile setting up of the directorate supervising the post
and telecommunications activities will be a condition of effectiveness.
24.    -     Seachfor Professional Ea= . The search tor professional patnes would
be carried out in two phase. In the first phase of about three months, a consultant would
asctn, tbhough its contacts and in coordination with the Ministry, whether professional
partners would be interested in taking a participation in SOTELGUI, and under what
coditons. In the second phase, ihat specialized consultant would assist in the preparation of
a transparent and open privadzation process for SOTELGUI, as specified in the Divestit
program of the PESERP project. This would entail preparing bid documents for international
competitive bidding, including a prequalification stage, with adequate information on
SOTELGUI's opeating capacity and net worth to evaluate proposals on a comparative basis.
The consiltant would advise the Government on the evaluatin of proposals, selection of
candidaes and negotiations with the most suitable potental partners. It is not possible to set a
date by which the Goverment will have succeeded in selecting a private partner, as the speed
at which the private sector will respond is unknown.



- 20 -
25.          Engineig &%dies. Tle proposed project would be restricted to technicl
assistac and would not include physical investment, since the long-tem program would
have to be aegotated between the Government an4 Its potential professional partners in
SOTELGUI. The Bank could finance the Conakry network component in a possible
subsequent project, if no bilateral financing were available, after it being awarded through
interional competitive bidding. Under the project, design of the most economical
solutions, for switching, transmission and distribution, to connect 30,000 subscribers before
year 2000 in Greater Conakry would be prepared, as well as for intercity transmission and
local distribution, to implement the Investment program of the provincial networks. Such
feasibility studies and preparation of bid documents are expected to be carried out in about
eight months. Abe studies will contain provision for a limited environmental analysis, as
prescribed for telecommunications projects of B category.
26.          Speialie Tni. Speciized on-te-job training would be provided,
under the responsibility of the two managemeat teams, as part of know-how transfer.
Beu  the training needs are not presently known in sufficient details, the buman resource
specialists of the advance party of the management tewans (paras. 18 and 20) will prepare a
US$ 500,000 equivalent training program for the years 1993 and 1994. That program will
include US$ 100,000 for about 8 months of training abroad, for high level technical staff, in
computerized management network, US$ 100,000 for local curricula in the use of
microcomputers, carried out by expatriate specialists for about 50 middle level tecmical and
administrtive staff of telecommunications and post, employed by the entities and by the
minstry, US$ 100,000 would be used for training equipment and about $200,000 for the
development of training and operation manuals and procedures (Schedule 4). The completion
of a detiled training program acceptable to IDA will be a condition of disbursement of the
specialized training program.
27.          Sa  Pars St  Materials and SptEMb=  for praonand
Rehabilitation. In accordance with the objectives of the project (para. 15), relative to the
quality of public services to the subscribers, operation and mainance of the networks must
be improved and parts of the installations require rebabilitation to make up for a very low
level in services provided and guarantee smooth operation. The component would include
supply of spare parts, stores materials and crucial support equipment, which are necessary for
improved or s', ndard functioning. llis would cover switching, transmission, local
distribution, energy, post equipment, logistics and office equipment. Furthermore, in order
to ensure that SOTELGUI's opation will not be bampered by cash shortage, additional
financing will be provided for small spare parts and recurrent maintence expenses (para.
30). Effective transfer of responsibiities to the new entities (para. 31) will be a condition of
disburment of the whole component.
B - 3.FiacaAset
28.          Financial Situatn. Postl services are losing money, and they wil continue
to require budgetary support, even under the management team's stewardship (par 20).
SOTELGUI's opening balance sheet, as prepared in December 1991, is amended in the
following way (Schedule 1): the amount of fixed assets is reduced, because a large part of
transmission assets cannot be used, the subscribers' arrears will be retained by Government,
so at SOTELOUI's balance sheet carries only three months of accounts receivable. Long.
term debt on investment and long-term debt to foreign administrations will also be retained by
the Government to leave a clean slate for the starting company SOTELOUT (para. 31).



- 21 -
Covenns of the Development Credit agreemen specify that SOTELGUI and OPO have to
prepar fnancial statements - income and funds flow statements, balance sheets - for the year
1993, prior to the audit (para. 44). In addition, no investment exceeding the equivalent of
US$ I million shall be made In SOTELGUT and OPG if it is not acceptable to IDA.
29.   Telecommunications showed a large deficit in 1991 (Schedule 1), due to unbilled
consumption, estimated at 25%, and poor recovery, estimated at 15%. It is noteworthy that,
at the 1992 tariff level, the rate of return on net readjusted fixed assets in operation (para. 28)
before tax would be more than 30%, if consumption were fully billed and recovered. This is
an atractive situation for prospective investors, and this justifies the employment of a
telecommunications Management team, expected to set up a performing accounting and
Information system and enforce adequate billing and collection procedues (aras. 18 and 19).
Furthermore, the Management team will prepare a tariff policy, in the first half of 1993,
which will seave as P. basis for frther increases. In a later phase of SOTELGUI's life, the
rate of retm on fixed assets is expected to remain at a satisfctory level, in view of the
estmad sizabl9 potential demand (Para. 3).
30.          Working Qapjtn. The Government is committed to finance
telecommunications salaries up to the date of transfer of operation to SOTELGUI (para 31).
It was agreed at negotiations that telecommunications revenues from January 1, 1993 until
SOTELGUI becomes operational will be put in an escrow account in the Central Bank and
wiff be part of Govenment's contribution to SOTELGUI's net worth, and that the
Government will thereaftaer pay its telecommunications bills quarterly. Those payments and
recovery from private subscribers should cover SOTELGUI's salaries and other recurrent
expemes. Its income stateme  would thus be balanced, except for depreciation and payments
due to foreign administrations for international calls. However, in order to avoid a possible
cash deficit resulting from lagging recovery in 1993 and 1994, IDA will finance $2 million
equivalent of additional spare parts and recurrent mantmce expenses (para. 27).
B - 4. Timetable
31.           rnsfer of telecommunications and posal oerations. The transfer of
responsibility for all teleconmunications and postal operations, and assets, respectively to
SOTELGUI and OPO, can only be effective when the management teams are ready to manage
the two entities. The presently scheduled date is 15 May 1993. As covenants of the
Development Credit agreement, the Govenment would commit itself to acceptance of all
liabilities arising out of, or in connection with, DNT's and DNSPF's operations up to the
trasfer date as well as obligation linked to them, including mainly: (a) arrears on subscribers'
accounts (receivables more than three months old); (b) payment of debt service on equipment
acquired before the trasfer date; and (c) payment of debt to foreign telecommunications
administrations incurred before the transfer date (para. 12). As agreed at negotiations, the
Government would transfer operation and assets to SOTELGUI and OPG, no later than June
30, 1993. Confirmation that there is no legal restriction to the transfer of operation, assets
and personnel will be a condition of effectiveness.
32.         ,Er i. netters of invitation to short lists of consultants, for
management teams, search for professional partners and engineering studies were sent out in
the beginning of August 1992. The following timetable is proposed but depends heavily on
the response of the private sector (para. 24):



- 22 -
15 Oct. 92:   Tendering for Implementation of the reorganiation of Ministry;
15 Dec. 92:  Search for parnership specialist;
25 Dec 92:  SeJection of magenen teams;
15 Ja a. 93:   First members of management teams star working in Conkry;
Statn of reorganization of Minity;
Start of engineering studies;
15 Mar. 93: Management teams arrive in full in Guinea;
Conclusion of first phase of search for professional partners and approval by
Government;
15 A,pr. 93: Submission of enginwering studies for Conakry, for approval;
Launching of post and telecommunications training program for 1993 and
1994;
13 May 93:  Transfer to SOTELGUI and OPG of mageent of telecommunications and
postal operations, and assets;
Launching of bidding documents, in second phase of search for parnership;
31 May 93:  Submission of engineering studies for the provinces, for approval;
31 July 93: Approval by Government of engineering studies;
u93-May94: Evaluation of partnership proposals, discussion with qualified parties, and
negotiation with selected partners;
31 Aug. 93:  Bid documents ready for all priority investments;
30 Sep. 93:   Signing of Program Contracts between Government and OPT and
SOTELGUJ. respectively;
31 Dec. 94:  End of managment teams' contracts.
B - 5. Project ;os and Financing
33.          Sao=  Cost Tale. The estimated cost of the project, net of tax, is as
follows (a more detailed project cost table is in Schedule A):
(a)    SOTELGUI's and OPG's operational maagement teams,
$4.1 million equivalent
of which $0.4 million support from headquarters and
local services,
(b)   technical assistance for reorganization of Ministry,    $0.4 million
(c)   search for professional partners,               $0.3 million
(d)   engineering studies for priority invesutent program,   $2.6 million
of which $0.3 million for headquarnts expenses,
(e)   specialized training program,                  $0.7 million
(f)   rehabilitation of building, and equipment,     $1.1 million
(g)   supply of parts, materials and equipment for
operation and rebabilitation,                  $4.4 million
(h)   reimbursement of PPF,                           $1.5 million
(i)    provision for condngencies,                   $1.5 million
of which $1.0 million for technical assistance
and    $0.5 million for equipment and works.
Total $16.6 million
A ummary of consulting services is in Schedule 5.



- 23 -
34.          Finaning. IDA financing would be $14.6 million equivalent, coveing 100%
of fbre  cost and 80% of local costs of reabilitaion of building and supply of parts,
materials and equipme. Govenmen's countepat in local fwns for the components is
esmaed at $2.0 million equivalent, including contingencies; we are satisfied that
Government can meet this obigation. The total project finalncit would thus be $16.6
million. In paraiel, PESERP will fiace $0.9 million worth of rdated consultancy work for
SOTELGUI and OPG.-
B - 6. 4g[U    eached
35.          The Goverment has established SOTELGUI and OPG, with statuses
acceptable to IDA (para. 13).
36.        -Conditions of effev     :
(a)    proof that there has been no new recruitment, with referece to a computer
listing (pa. II);
(b)   proof of increases in tariff linked to inflation rates, every six months, since
January 1992 (para. 11);
(C)    proof of reduction of consumption of Ministy of Communication and other
ministries in temnmmunications services (parm. 11);
(d)   appointment of SOTELGUI's and OPO's Boards of Directrs (para. 13);
(e)   approval by IDA of their Utility agreements (para. 13);
(t)    adequate delegaion of authority by the Boards of Directors to the management
teems of SOTELGUI and OPG, In line positions pas. 21);
(g)   confirmation that the delegation of authority is consistent with regulation of
the sector and there is no legal restLiction to the transfer of operation to the
new two entities (pas. 21 and 31); and
(h)   Implemeo  of the supervising directorate of post and telecommunications
within the Ministry of Communication (para. 23).
37.          Tovenhn of the Evelgg=  Credk A            lhe following covenants
were agreed at nesotiations:
(a)    no new recutmet, tariff increases related to inflat    as measured by actu
rate of exchange to the SDR, increase of recovery rate from 15% to 35% and
reduction of telephone lines in govement offices, before the transfer date
(PM. 11);
(v)   targets to be specified with dutes, in the management contract with
SOTELGUT (one year renewable, with staff acceptable to IDA), with respect
to recovery rate, staffing plan, accoting system, ta   policy, operating and
investment budgets, progm  contract and dated permmace icato, and
Implementation of those (parn. 19);
(c)   targets to be specified with dates, in the management conta  with OPO (one
year renewable, with stff acceptale to IDA), with respect to stng plan
accounting system, tatiff policy, openg md investment budgets, proam
conact and dated paformance indicators, and implementation of those (ps
20);
(d)              of SOTELGUI's and OP's fianc  staements for the year
1993, (para. 28);



- 24 -
(e)   no invstment exceeding $1 million which woud not be aceptable to IDA
(para. 28);
()    commtment by Government to put teleconmunications revenues in an escrow
account until the date of transfer of operaton to SOTELGUI, as a contribution
to SOTELGUJ's networtb, and to pay Its telecommunications bills quaterly,
thereaoer ara. 30);
(g)   commitment by Government to transfer the DNT and DNSPF operations to
SOTELGUI and OPG, not later than June 30, 1993 (para 31);
(b)   commitment by Government to accept all liabilities arising out of or in
connection with DNrs and DNSPF's operations up to the transfer date as
well as obligation linked to them, including mainly: ff) arrears on subscribers'
accounts (receivables more than three months old); (ii) payment of debt
service on equipment acquired before the transfer date; and (iil) payment of
debt to foreign telecommunications administrations incurred before the transfer
date (para. 31); and
(i) appointment of auditors, acceptable to IDA to prepare the audit of
SOTELGUI's and OPG's acounts and the project accounts, six months after
the end of each financial year (pan. 44).
38.          Conditions of di mn. They are:
(a)   the completion of a detailed training proam acceptable to IDA, for the
tning ctgory (para. 26); and
(b)   the effective transfer of responsibilities to the new entities, for the supply of
pams, materials and equipment for operation and rehabilitation category (para.
27).
C. tQjoit Administration and m ementaton
39.          Qnizatiw  and Man gem     . MC will be responsible for overall project
implementation, under the supervision of the Secretary General (SG), chairman of the
Superv ry committee (par. 11). Whenever an important decision involves several
ministries, the matter should be reported to the ComktE Internllrtdr  de s&di (para 9),
which will berenamed CwnitO nadonal de coordon des t0owumunkdlow, according to
the Telecommunications Law. Liaison will be mainaned with the commitees implementing
PESERP (paras. 15 and 24). Training would be under the supervision of MC, in close
cooperation with the operational technical assistance.
40.          IMam         . During project implementation, IDA will keep in contact
with all concerned lenders to get their advice and cooperation, as a foilow-p to the March
*       1992 lenders meeting. Implementation of the main activities under the project is anticipated
to take about two and a half years. The completion date for the project will be June 30,
1995, and the dosing date December 31, 1995. A summary of the key project activities is
presened in Schedule 6.
41.          Pce          The goods and services to be financed under the project would
be procred in accordance with procedures summarzed In Schedule B. Consultants and
technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA would be appointed in accordance with



- 25 -
the Bank Group guidelines for consulbtts, dated August 1981, and would be smployed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Items will be grouped to the extent possible to
encourage competitive bidding. Procurement packages Including cable material, tools,
measuring equipment, as well as building rehabilitation, valued at US$ 100,000 equivalen or
more, including contingencies and local expendiures, will be procured through international
competive bidding (ICB). Supply of spare parts, cousisting of five packages totalling US$
600,000, which are proprietary and obtainable only from specified manufacturers wIll be
procured through direct contracts, subject to IDA approval to ensure that the prices are
comparable to world market price for similar equipment. Office equipment, mini-computers
(PCs) and miscellaneous materials totalling US$ 400,000 that cannot be grouped to form
packages of more than US$ 100,000 equivalent, will be procured through local competitive
bidding LB) and US$ 800,000 through interuational shopping. All contrscts estimated to
cost more than US$ 25,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documenon.
42.          DisbuMm=   Funds are forecast to be disbursed over 36 months
(November 1992 to June 1995). This is considerably quicker than has historicaRly been the
case: the ratio of outstnding undisbursed IDA fiuds to total commitments in Guinea is
approximately 45 percent. Nevertheless, in this case where Government has agreed to entrust
opetion of the new entities to be created under the project to external executive assistance,
in close cooperation and monitoring with Its own executive and administrative branch, IDA
staff believes that the operation proposed can meet shorter completion and disbursement
gets. One should keep in mind that the concerned services are economically productive
and profitable and that the moderate size of the organizations involved makes them
manageable in the present circumstances. Furthermore, it is assumed that full de ination
of the government will ensure the required cooperation, and fulfillment of government
obligations. All disbursements would be fully documented except for payment under contracts
of less than US$ 25,000 equivalent, training, spare parts, and miscellaneous office equipment
which will be made against statements of expenditures (SOE). The SG of MC would have the
responsibility in adequate liaison with MPF for the preparation of withdrawal applications for
all components.
43.          RevolvintFunds. In order to expedite project implementation, the
Governnent would establish a Special Account in an offshore commercial bank as a revolving
fund for IDA's contribution. An initW deposit of US$ 500,000 equivalent would be made
upon efectiveness. Replenishment of the Special Account will be made monthly. Budgetary
provision for local costs will be inscribed in the annual opening budgets.
44.          Accounts a  Audi. The SG of MC would establish separate accounts kept
by an independent accountant in accordance with accepted accounting principles, to record all
project expenditures and to maintain records on all commitments, reimbursements and the
status of project funds. Agreement was obtned at negotiation that an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA would audit SOTELGUI's and OPG's accounts annually, starting with the
incomplete 1992 financial year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. Audit
reports will be due six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports will include
a separate opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of
SOEs and fom the Special Account pertaining to expenditures incurred for the purposes of
the project.



- 26 -
45.          8Ming and Monitoring. MC would be required to submit semi-annual
reports on the progress of project implementation, starting on June 30,1993. It would also
prepare an annual report summarizing progress for all components. the scope and detail of
these repos will be agresd upon with the Government. Twice yearly, Bank missions would
allow for adequate supervision of the projedt. Expected skill requirements would include
engeerin, financial and procurement. In addition, the Government and IDA would jointly
carry out a mid-term review of the project, between twelve and fourteen months after the
teams have started their work, to assess: (a) the progress made In Implementing the project
and problems encountered; (b) the progress made in meeting performance targets; (c) the
performane of MC, SOTELGUI and OPG, including a review of the managerial autonomy
enjoyed by the management teams; (d) the progress made in the privaization of SOTELGUI;
(e) the continued validity of the project design in light of implementation experience; and (t)
the adjustments required in project design and performance. At the completion of the project,
towards the beginning of 1995, it will be Government's obligation to start preparing the
project completion report with IDA possible assistance.
nDa



- 27 -
SCHEULE I
page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TEICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
SOTELG]Ul's Financial Statements for 1991
ipegt   Balance Sheet, as of January 1. 1992
Ine opening balance sheet is taken out of the balance sheet prepared by the PPF-financed
consltans, In December 1991. However, In keeping with conditions of Board presentation
(para 34), cumnt assets are not carried on, from the ministerial department to the new company,
and Govenment will remain accountable for short and long term liabilities, incurred prior to the
establishmen of SOTELGUI.
Balance Sheet - Jannuary 1. 1992
(in billion Guinea Francs)
Equipment in operation:
Switching                                               3.8
Transmission                                           2i 0
Distribution                                            1.,
Buildings and miscellaneous                                4.2
Revaluation of fixed assets                                4.4
Total fixed assets in operaton                 35.3
Work In progress                                           3.6
Invetory 
Private receivables (3 months)                             1.6
Total assets
lUBLIAV  E=
Short and long term liabilities
Net worti (Government)                                    4QS.
Total liabilities



- 28 -
Page 2 of 4
Income Statenent for 1991
SOTELGUrS income statement is presented In  ree differen formats. The first fomat is the
one preseted by the consultants in December 1991, amended to take account of available
informodon. The second format shows what the income would be if all subscibers were billed
and fuIl collection achieved (sound operational and financW management). Th.ethr format
shows what the income would be if all the connected lines were workig (increase from 7,600 to
11,000 lines, para.3).
Income Statement (yea 1992)
(in billion Guinea Francs)
Fnonml. Actual
Estimated Revenues
Private subscribers                    10.9
Government subscribers                 10.7
Ministry of Communication               5.3
Tot i                            26.9
Bllling (75% of estimated revenues)
Private subscribers                     8.2
Government subscribers                  8.0
Ministry of Communication
Total                             16.2
Collection
Private subscribers (15% of billing)    1.2
Government subscribers (15% of billing)  1.2
Total                             2.4
Revenues International Traffic (arrival)  2.5
Total cash revenues               42
Charges:
International Traffic (departure)       7.6
Supplies and services                   0.8
Personnel                               2.5
Petroleum products                      2.5
Depreciation                            3.5
Total charges                     1.
Cash income                    - fl,



- 29 -
AV* 3 of 4
EPmatL 2 Collection equals estimated revenues
Revenues from subscribers                                     21.6
International Traffic (arrival)                                2.5
Total revenues                                     XL
Charges:
Actual charges                                          16.9
Estimated supplementary charges needed
for improvement of main-enance and
billing and collection (supplies and
services, GF 1.2 billion, personnel, GF
4.3 billion, petroleum GF 3.5 billion)                   3.2
Total expenses                                     2Q1
Total net income                                    LU
Fomat 3.  All connected lines would be in working
condition. All revenues and charges for
international traffic are estimated to be
increased by 40%. Personnel and depreciation
charges remain the same as in Format 2, and
supplies and maintenance charges are estimated
to be multiplied by 25%.
Revenues:
Total: 24.1 x 1.4                                       33.7
Charges:
International traffic: 7,f6 x 1.4                        10.6
Supplies and services: 1,2 x 1.25                        1.5
Petroleum 3,2 x 1.25                                     4.0
Personnel                                                4.3
Depreciation                                             3.0
Total expenses                                     23.
Total net income                                    ,
The income of the Format 3 presentation would be compared with the balance sheet
prepared in the June 1991 by the consultants. A large part of the transmission asset is of no use
because of insufficient switching capacity throughout the coutry, its amount would thus be
reduced by about PG 9



-30 -
SCHEDULE I
Page,4 of 4
billion, which would reduce the net worth to about FG 31 billion. lhe rehun on fixed assets In
operatio, would be more than 30% before taxes.
lhe funds flow statement of 1992 would have litle meaning, as the departmnt was
not responsible either for cash or for investment budget (manage by the Trasury).
OPG'S Opening balance sheet, asn of Juam   1. 1992
(in billion Guna Francs)
ASS
Equipment in operation                                     1.4
Work in progress                 ,                         0.4
Short term assets                                          0.0
Total assets                                   JJ
Short and long term liabilities                            0.0
Net worth (Government)                                     1.8
Total liabilities                               Ij



POS 'ANMD I'LECOMMUNICArIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMAY NIYANIATON CHA
SOTELGUI
t       l           l        C~~~~~~~ENERAL M ANAGER 
|  ItJS10N   |  |LEGAL AFFA                                         ||    REXTEOtS |
DIRECTORATES:
PLASNNING        PRODlJCTION         MARKETING        FINANCE AND |      HUMAN   I   SUPPUES AND
ACCOUNTING    1RESOURCES AND    LOGISTCS
,                            . .     |  ~~~~~~~~GENiERL ADM.|
OPG
DIRECTORATES:
ACCOUNllN(J AND                                         POUlO
GENERAL                                                 AND
ADMMWSTRTION                                            MARK£11N
42-



32 -
SCEEULE 3
Page Iof 2
REPUBlIC OF GUNEA
POSr AND COMMUNICATIONS TECHI CAL ASSTANCE PROJECT
SOTEL_                            __
Dec. 30, 1993    June 30, 194    June 30,19MS
Main telephone          11.000           13.000          13.000
lines n operation
Number of faults         5                 3               1.5
per line In one year
Perentage of fault
repalred:
I two days              30               SO               60
In oneweek              50               60               70
Pecetag of calls          50              60               70
completed in
C-                    .
Bging rate n %)           80              90               100
Recovery rate, on         75              so               85
bilng (in %)



- 33 -
SQIELE 3
Page 2 of 2
IPG                                  _   __          _______       -_ l
mant distrbton
in Conakry (nt          40%              60%             80%
day)
In "Chefs 1ax            10               7              2 5
(in days)
Inotbertowus             15               10              7
(in day)
Posti boe             - .X_doublig
referee to 1
January   3)
EXpes mai (with
referenc tol1           +50%           +100%            +200%
January 193)



-34-
REPUBLIC OF GUEIEA
POST AND COMMUNICATIONS TECBNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.   The specWalized training program would consist of two parts. The first part would be
knowledge transfer, which would result from on-the-job training carried out by the nine high
level executives, in line positions, six with SOTELGUI and three with OPG (pas. 17 to 20
of technical annex). The second part would form a separate component of the project, for an
amount of US$0.5 million in foreign currency (to which US$0.2 million equivalent in local
currencies would be added by the Government for support facilities).
2.   The oranization of DNT and DNSPF is very poor within the Ministy of
Communication and the staff adequacy to their positions, and their training needs, are not
resently known in sufficient deRil. The human resource specialists of the advance party of
the management teams (paras. 18 and 20 of the technical annex) will evaluate SOTELGui's
and OPOs needs in terms of staff and will make proposals on how to allocate the present
DNT and DNSPF staff to the new entities. At the same time, they will prepare a US$
500,000 equivalent trining program for the yeaus 1993 and 1994, and the presentation of
such progam will be a condition of disbursement of the training category.
3.    That program can presently be outlined in the following way. It will include: (a)
U1S$ 100,000 for about 8 months of training, for four high level technical staff, in
computerized network management which can only be provided abroad, either in formal
trainng or in work attachment position; (b) US$ M00,000 for local curricula in the use of
microcomputers or in accounting and administrative disciplines, carried out by about four
expatriate speialists for about 50 middle level technical and administrative staff of
telecommunications and post, to be employed by the entities and by the ministry; (c) US$
100,000 to be used for training equipment, computers and measuring instruments; and (d)
about $200,000 for the develpment of training and operation manuals and procedures, which
will serve as the basic reference fo operation and maintenance for several years.



-35 -
REPIUIJC OF GITNEA
POSr AND TELECOMMUNCATIONS TECHICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
T/A Component?                    Volume of services               Modalities
Technical asistance
(par. 17 to 19)               105 /SOTELGUI                    short-list
(para. 20)                   45 /OPG
R.eorganizatin of Ministry
(para. 23)                   15                                short-fist
Search for private pars
(pan. 24)                     8                                short-list
Engineering studies
(para. 25)                   100                               short-list
Training (para. 26)              4                                 short-list
* Paras of the technical annex



- 36 -
SCHEDL13 6
Page I of 2
REPBUC OF GUNEA
POST AND TMICATIONS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Ptoject Componnts
and Obeecdves              Key Activites        Tald                  antd Result
1. Techical assistance   - Set up a management  1993-1994  - Cause SOTELGUI to rn
to SOTELGUI and       asssn        through dat              its techical operation at a
OPG tkrough           targets:                              standard level of quality
management teams.        staff  plan
o accounting systems                - Make SOTELGUI fully
mmarffpolicy                      sustainableand attractive to
o anual budgets                     potential private partners.
program conacts
performance indicators,           - Have OPG's operation run
concerning recovery               at a standard level of
rate, quality of                  peformance in main cities.
service and mail
distribution                       - Restore public confidence
in postal services
- Broad delegation of
auority                              - Reduce postal deficit.
- On-the-job taining.
2. Reanion of    - Set up a supervisory         1993-1994  - Relieve the Mmistry of
Ministry of Post and  orgnization in charge of              responsibilities in operation
Telecommunications.    sector poicy lanning,
tariff structure and level,          - Enforce the regulation in
social and rural policies,           the sector
servce quait)
- Encourage competitidon in
- Set up a regulatory                new services.
structure (frequency
conrol, licensing to operate
ntoworks, liceosig to Sel
equipment, setting
standars of equipment).



- 37 -
SCEIDU,E 
, Page 2 of 2
Project Components                               Cim2
QW4lea                     Activites,        TAWO            Q       and RNa&k
3. Search for         - Explore the spectrum of   January to  Pind a long-term private
professional partners.   private firms that could be   August    partnership for SOTELGUI.
successful in managing    1993
SOTELGUl's peration
- Prepare bidding         August
documents for selected    1993 to
partners
May 1994
- Assist the Govermnent in
negotating with selected
parters.
4. Engineeig studies. - Define feasibility studies   Jamnmy to  Have bidding documents
of the three-year priority  May 1993  ready.
investment program for
Conakry and the provinc
- Prepare the bidding     June to
documents.                August
1993
S. Speized Taining  - Scholarships abroad,      1993 and   Training of senior
technical courses in Guinea   1994   adminisuatve and technical
for technical and                    staff.
administrative staff in data
tednology and processing,
and development of Waining
and operation manuals and
procedures.
6. Operation and      - Purchase of parts and   1993        SOTELGUl and OPG attain
maintenance           equipment necessary for   tbrough     a standard qulity of
components.           operation and maintenance.  1995      service.



