Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2444 GUI
                   Development Credit Agreement
                   (Post and Telecommunications
                   Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 21, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2444 GUI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 21, 1993, between THE REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  2
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Cahier des Charges Post" means the cahier des charges
referred to in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 2 (a) of this
Agreement;
      (b)   "Divestiture Program" means the divestiture program as
defined in Development Credit Agreement No. 2398 GUI between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (c)   "DNSPF" means the Borrower's Direction nationale des
services postiers et financiers within MC (as hereinafter defined);
      (d)   "DNT" means the Borrower's Direction nationale des
telecommunications within MC (as hereinafter defined);
      (e)   "GNF" means Guinean Franc, the Borrower's currency;
      (f)   "Management Contracts" means the management contracts
for SOTELGUI and OPG as defined in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph
3 of this Agreement and referred to jointly;
      (g)   "Management Teams" means the management teams for
SOTELGUI and OPG as defined in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 3
of this Agreement and referred to jointly;
      (h)   "MC" means the Borrower's ministry of communication;
      (i)   "MPF" means the Borrower's ministry of plan and finance;
      (j)   "OPG" means Office de la Poste Guineenne;
      (k)   "OPG Statutes" means the statutes of OPG as referred to
in Article 10 of the Post Decree (as hereinafter defined);
      (l)   "OPG Transfer Contract" means the contract referred to
in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 2 (b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "OPG Transfer Date" means the date at which the transfer
of OPG operations takes place in accordance with the OPG Transfer
Contract;
      (n)   "Post Decree" means the Borrower's Decret
D/92/142/PRG/SGG, Creant un Etablissement Public 
 Caractcre
Industriel et Commercial Denomme "Office de la Poste Guineenne" of
June 2, 1992;
      (o)   "Post Law" means the Borrower's Loi L/92/015/CTRN,
Relative aux Services de la Poste of June 2, 1992;
      (p)   "Program Contracts" means the program contracts as
defined in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 5 of this Agreement;
      (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 27, 1989, and
January 3, 1990, and December 11, 1991, between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (r)   "Public Enterprise Law" means the Borrower's Ordonnance
No. 91/025/PRG/SGG, Portant Cadre Institutionnel des Entreprises
Publiques of March 11, 1991 as revised by the Borrower's Ordonnance
O/92/022/PRG/SGG of May 26, 1992;
      (s)   "SOTELGUI" means Societe des Telecommunications de
Page  3
Guinee;
      (t)   "SOTELGUI Statutes" means the statutes of SOTELGUI as
referred to in Article 6 of the Telecom Decree (as hereinafter
defined);
      (u)   "SOTELGUI Transfer Date" means the date of which the
transfer of SOTELGUI operations takes place in accordance with the
Telecom Concession Agreement, which shall be no later than June 30,
1993;
      (v)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (w)   "Telecom Concession Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 1 of this
Agreement;
      (x)   "Telecom Decree" means the Borrower's Decret
D/92/141/PRG/SGG Autorisant la Creation de la Societe des
Telecommunications de Guinee, of June 2, 1992;
      (y)   "Telecom Law" means the Borrower's Loi L/92/016/CTRN
Relative 
 la Reglementation Generale des Telecommunications, of
June 2, 1992;
      (z)   "Transfer Contracts" means the OPG Transfer Contract and
the Telecom Concession Agreement referred to jointly; and
      (aa)  "Transfer Dates" means the SOTELGUI Transfer Date and
the OPG Transfer Date referred to jointly.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in off-shore
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association ,including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
Page  4
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 2003 and ending August 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  5
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative and communications practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall perform all its obligations
under the Program Contracts and shall in no way through its action
or omission adversely affect the ability of SOTELGUI and OPG to
fully carry out their obligations under the Program Contracts and
meet other targets and objectives defined in this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. In the period up to the Transfer Dates the
Borrower shall, for DNT and DNSPF respectively:
      (a)   ensure that the total number of staff employed in DNT
and DNSPF shall not exceed 1030 and 290 respectively;
      (b)   ensure that the tariffs set for services rendered by DNT
and DNSPF shall as a minimum be revised every six months to keep
pace with the SDR - GNF exchange rate. This obligation shall apply
as of January 1, 1992;
      (c)   for DNT only, ensure that its recovery rate on billing
shall be at least 35%; and
      (d)   for DNT only, deposit all revenues obtained from its
operations as of January 1, 1993 in an escrow account in a bank and
on conditions acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall reduce (and provide evidence
thereof acceptable to the Association) its consumption of
telecommunications services in terms of the total number of
telephone line connections at all levels of government from
approximately 1500 to 800 or less by June 30, 1993. Thereafter the
Borrower shall meet the targets set in the Program Contracts for
government consumption.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that at all levels of
government appropriate amounts are included in the annual budgets to
pay for the services provided by SOTELGUI and OPG and that invoices
received for services provided shall be paid within three months
from receipt of the invoice.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that SOTELGUI and OPG shall not undertake any investment
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000 that is not acceptable to the
Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, throughout the imple-
mentation of the Project, cause SOTELGUI and OPG to adopt, implement
and maintain a tariff structure satisfactory to the Association.
This tariff structure shall be designed with a view to allowing full
compliance with the Program Contracts and shall be implemented in
SOTELGUI and OPG as of their respective Transfer Dates. The Borrower
shall take all measures required on its part to enable SOTELGUI and
OPG to do so.
       Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUI and OPG to,
in respect of their operations, carry out the obligations set forth
Page  6
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition
respectively).
      Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  7
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any of the following documents has been amended,
suspended, repealed, waived or otherwise deviated from in practice,
so as to, in the opinion of the Association, materially and
adversely affect the ability of SOTELGUI or OPG to perform their
obligations in accordance with the Project: the Telecom Law, the
Telecom Decree, the Post Law, the Post Decree, the Cahier des
Charges Post, the Public Enterprise Law, the SOTELGUI Statutes, the
OPG Statutes and the Telecom Concession Agreement;
      (b)   non-compliance with the Telecom Concession Agreement,
the OPG Transfer Contract, any of the Program Contracts, or any of
the Management Contracts, by either party thereto; and
      (c)   any action or omission that may lead to the dissolution
or disestablishment of SOTELGUI or OPG or to the suspension of their
operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified: any event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the establishment of the Cahier des Charges Post and the
cahier des charges referred to in Article 21 of the Telecom Law,
both in form and content acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   the appointment of the members of the Boards of
Directors of SOTELGUI and OPG;
      (c)   receipt of confirmation, by decision of the SOTELGUI and
OPG Boards of Directors or any other appropriate instrument
acceptable to the Association, that no later than their respective
Transfer Dates:
            (i)   the Management Teams will be appointed to the
                  senior management positions in SOTELGUI and OPG;
                  and
           (ii)   the level of decision-making authority regarding
                  the management of SOTELGUI's and OPG's opera-
                  tions, as envisaged in Schedule 4, Section II,
                  paragraphs 3 (b) and 4 (b) of this Agreement,
                  will be allocated to the Management Teams; and
      (d)   the total number of staff employed in DNT and DNSPF does
not exceed 1030 and 290 respectively;
      (e)   total government consumption of telecommunications
services in terms of metered telephone services has been reduced by
at least 30% during the period January through December 1992;
      (f)   the tariffs set for services rendered by DNT and DNSPF
have been revised every six months since January 1, 1992, to keep
pace with the SDR - GNF exchange rate;
      (g)   a directorate for the supervision of post and
telecommunications activities has been established in MC and is
Page  8
operational;
      (h)   receipt by the Association of an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association, confirming that:
            (i)   there are no legal restrictions currently
                  existing or expected to arise prior to the
                  Transfer Dates, that may prevent, delay or hinder
                  the transfer of operations, assets and personnel
                  from DNT and DNSPF to SOTELGUI and OPG, respec-
                  tively, as envisaged by the Project; and
           (ii)   the allocation and delegation of decision making
                  authority to the Management Teams, as envisaged
                  in this Agreement, and particularly in Schedule
                  4, Section II, paragraphs 3 (b) and 4 thereof is
                  consistent with and can be implemented in the
                  context of the Telecom Law and Decree, the Post
                  Law and Decree, the Public Enterprise Law, as
                  well as any other relevant regulation in force or
                  pending, including the Cahier des Charges Post,
                  the cahier des charges referred to in Article 21
                  of the Telecom Law, the SOTELGUI Statutes and the
                  OPG Statutes.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister responsible for planning
and finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Finance
            BP 579
            Conakry
            Guinea
                                          Telex:
                                            22399 MIFIGE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
                        THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                        By /s/ Boubacar Barry
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ F. J. Aguire-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Consultants'             4,150,000        100%
      services and studies
(2)   Training                   280,000        100%
(3)   Equipment,               2,920,000        100% of foreign
      vehicles and                              expenditures and
      materials                                 80% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Civil works                550,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(5)   Refunding of             1,020,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated              1,080,000
                               _________
           TOTAL              10,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  10
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   Category (3) prior to the receipt by the Association of
evidence acceptable to it that the operations of DNT and DNSPF have
been transferred to SOTELGUI and OPG respectively, in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement; and
      (c)   Category (2) prior to receipt by the Association of a
training program acceptable to it.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the restructuring of the Borrower's telecommunication and postal
sectors with a view to improving the quality of service provided and
financial performance of the sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Sector Regulatory and Institutional Reform
1.    Revision of the regulatory environment for the
telecommunications and post sectors.
2.    Reorganization of MC to enable it to perform the functions
entrusted to under the revised regulatory environment for the
sectors.
3.    Establishment of SOTELGUI and OPG as public enterprises under
the Public Enterprise Law.
4.    Strengthening of SOTELGUI and OPG management through expert
management teams.
5.    Transfer of DNT's telecommunications operations and DNSPF's
postal operations to SOTELGUI and OPG respectively.
Part B:    SOTELGUI Privatization
      Investigation of private sector interest in a possible future
privatization of SOTELGUI and assist in the preparation of its
privatization in accordance with the Divestiture Program.
Part C:    Engineering Studies
      Carrying out of feasibility studies and the preparation of bid
documents regarding the implementation of a priority investment
program in the telecommunications sector.
Part D:   Operation/Maintenance
      Improvement of the operation and maintenance of tele-
communications and postal services (including switching, trans-
mission, distribution, energy and logistics systems) through the
supply of spare parts and equipment.
Part E:    Training
      Training on data technology and processing for middle and high
level technical and administrative staff of MC, SOTELGUI and OPG.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for cable material,
tools, equipment and civil works shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Office equipment (including personal computers), spare parts
and miscellaneous materials estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $100,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertise locally, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, or may up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $800,000 be procured on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, all in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
2.    Contracts for spare parts which are obtainable only from
specified manufacturers may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$600,000, be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
Page  12
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
      (d)  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Implementation Program for the Project
Section I. Project Implementation, Monitoring and Review
1.    MC is responsible for Project implementation and monitoring.
2.    MC shall submit semi-annual progress reports in a format
approved by the Association within eight weeks of the end of each
six month interval. For the purpose of this paragraph, the first
interval ends on June 30, 1993. These reports shall give a detailed
account on progress made and problems encountered during Project
implementation for each Part of the Project.
3.    Each semi-annual progress reports shall be the subject of a
separate joint review meeting between the Borrower and the
Association.
4.    The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term
review of the Project between 12 and 14 months after the Management
Teams have started their work. The Borrower shall prepare the inputs
required for this review. The mid-term review shall assess:
      (a)   the progress made in implementing the Project and
problems encountered;
      (b)   the progress made in meeting performance targets set;
      (c)   the performance of MC, SOTELGUI and OPG, including an
assessment of the managerial autonomy enjoyed by the Management
Teams;
      (d)   the progress made on the privatization of SOTELGUI;
      (e)   the continued validity of the Project design in the
light of implementation experience; and
      (f)   the adjustments required in Project design and
execution.
The Borrower shall implement without delay the recommendations that
result from the mid-term review and are agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section II. Sector Regulatory and Institutional Reform
1.    The Borrower shall grant the concession envisaged in Article
5 of the Telecom Law to SOTELGUI no later than June 30, 1993. This
concession shall cover the establishment, development, exploitation
Page  13
and maintenance of the public network and the provision of public
telecommunications services.
      The concession agreement including the cahier des charges
referred to in Article 21 of the Telecom Law (also jointly referred
to as the Telecom Concession Agreement) shall be acceptable to the
Association and shall be entered into no later June 30, 1993. It
shall, inter alia, include:
      (a)  the transfer of DNT operations to SOTELGUI through the
transfer of DNT's personnel and assets (with the exception of
subscriber's arrears originating more than three months prior to the
SOTELGUI Transfer Date). This transfer is to take place no later
than June 30, 1993;
      (b)   the transfer to SOTELGUI of the amount held in escrow
in accordance with Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement. This transfer
shall take place no later than June 30, 1993. Aforementioned amount
represents a participation of the Borrower in the capital of
SOTELGUI;
      (c)   acceptance by the Borrower of all liabilities (including
debt related to acquisition of equipment and to foreign tele-
communications administrations) arising out of or in connection with
DNT's operations up to the SOTELGUI Transfer Date, as well as an
obligation to indemnify and hold SOTELGUI harmless from any claim in
connection therewith; and
      (d)  an opening balance for SOTELGUI that is certified by the
Borrower's auditors and acceptable to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall no later than June 30, 1993:
      (a)   establish a cahier des charges (also referred to as the
Cahier des Charges Post) in conformity with the Post Law and
acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   transfer the operations of DNSPF to OPG. This transfer
shall be based on the execution of a transfer contract between OPG
and the Borrower (also referred to as the OPG Transfer Contract).
The OPG Transfer Contract shall be acceptable to the Association and
shall, inter alia, include:
            (i)   the transfer of DNSPF's assets and personnel to
                  OPG;
           (ii)   acceptance by the Borrower of all liabilities
                  (including debt related to acquisition of
                  equipment) arising out of or in connection with
                  DNSPF's operations up to the OPG Transfer Date as
                  well as an obligation to indemnify and hold OPG
                  harmless from any claim in connection therewith;
          (iii)   an opening balance for OPG that is certified by
                  the Borrower's auditors and acceptable to the
                  Association.
3.    The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUI and OPG to recruit expert
management teams (also referred to as the Management Teams) from
internationally recognized firms to assume senior management
positions in SOTELGUI and OPG for renewable periods of one year. The
composition of the Management Teams, their terms of reference and
the qualifications of the team members shall, at all times during
Project implementation, be acceptable to the Association.
      The Borrower shall, to that effect, cause SOTELGUI and OPG to
enter into agreements with the above-mentioned firms (also referred
to as the Management Contracts) no later than January 31, 1993. The
Management Contracts shall be acceptable to the Association and
shall, inter alia, include:
      (a)   an obligation for both Management Teams to be in place
Page  14
in full no later than March 15, 1993;
      (b)  the allocation of adequate decision making authority to
the Management Teams that will enable them to effectively and
efficiently run SOTELGUI and OPG operations within the annual
budgets and rolling Program Contracts as established in accordance
with this Agreement and the regulatory and institutional framework
for the telecommunications and post sectors. In particular the
Management Teams will be allowed to independently decide and
implement decisions regarding:
           (i)    the personnel in accordance with the applicable
                  labour law;
           (ii)   connection and disconnection of subscribers;
          (iii)   commitment of operating expenditure in the
                  context of the annual budget;
           (iv)   measures - including but not limited to
                  adjustment of its tariffs - to meet and continue
                  to meet all targets set in the Program Contracts;
                  and
           (v)    recovery of billings.
      (c)  a mechanism directly linking the remuneration of the
Management Teams to their performance;
      (d)  the obligation for the Management Teams to finalize
staffing plans no later than April 30, 1993 and implement such plans
in SOTELGUI and OPG as of their respective Transfer Dates. This plan
shall detail the levels and skill mix of manpower required as well
as a staff incentive scheme;
      (e)  the obligation of the Management Teams to as of 1994
prepare annually no later than October 31 operating and capital
budgets together with financial projections (including income
statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets) covering at
least the three coming fiscal years. In addition, an operating and
capital budget, as well as financial projections, shall be prepared
for the period July through December 1993, by June 30, 1993;
      (f)  the obligation for the Management Teams to introduce no
later than December 31, 1993 management information/accounting
systems in SOTELGUI and OPG. These systems will cover, inter alia,
billing and customer accounting, cost accounting and financial
control, as well as personnel and will ensure the timely
availability of reliable and standardized financial and other
information that will allow, amongst others, to evaluate performance
against the targets set out in Section III of this Schedule 4; and
      (g)  the obligation for the Management Teams to keep records
and accounts on SOTELGUI and OPG, to prepare financial statements as
of fiscal 1993, and to have these records, accounts and statements
audited applying, mutatis mutandis, Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
4.    The Borrower shall cause SOTELGUI and OPG to, no later than
their respective Transfer Dates:
      (a)  appoint the Management Teams to the management positions
in SOTELGUI and OPG in accordance with the Management Contracts; and
      (b)  delegate to the Management Teams, by decision of the
SOTELGUI and OPG Board of Directors or any other appropriate
instrument acceptable to the Association, the level of decision
making authority specified in paragraph 3  (b) above.
5.    The Borrower shall, and shall cause SOTELGUI and OPG to, enter
into separate three year rolling program contracts (also referred to
as the Program Contracts) no later than September 30, 1993 in
accordance with this paragraph. These Program Contracts shall be
Page  15
entered into between the Borrower on the one side, and SOTELGUI and
OPG respectively on the other side, in accordance with the Telecom
and Post Laws. The Program Contracts will be reviewed and if
appropriate revised at intervals of one year following their
effective date. Both the initial Program Contracts as well as any
revision thereof are subject to the Association's prior approval.
      The initial Program Contracts shall, inter alia, include for
both SOTELGUI and OPG:
      (a)  performance targets not below those set out in Section
III of this Schedule for SOTELGUI and OPG, as well as targets
regarding the training of local SOTELGUI and OPG staff;
      (b)  specific monitorable targets regarding:
           (i)    budgets and financial projections in compliance
                  of paragraph 3 (e) above;
          (ii)    the implementation of the staffing plan referred
                  to in paragraph 3 (d) above; and
         (iii)    the level of government consumption of services
                  provided;
      (c)  specific provisions to ensure compliance with the
monitoring and review requirements set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4
of Section I of this Schedule 4.
Section III. Performance Targets
A. SOTELGUI
                           Dec. 31,        Dec. 31,       Dec. 31,
                             1993            1994           1995
Main telephone              11,000          13,000         13,000
lines in operation
Number of faults per            5                3           1.5
line per 12 months
% of faults repaired:
(as of reporting)
  - in two days                30               50            60
  - in one week                50               60            70
calls completed from           50               60            70
Conakry (% of trials)
Billing rate (%)               80               90           100
Recovery rate on               75               80            85
billing (%)
                            Dec. 31,        Dec. 31,       Dec. 31,
                             1993            1994           1995
B. OPG
Page  16
Mail delivered:
-  Within Conakry
(% of total mail
to be delivered
the next day                 40              60             80
-  Between Conakry
and the Provincial
capitals (maximum
number of days
allowed for delivery)        10               7           2.5
-  Between Conakry and
other towns (maximum
number of days
allowed for delivery)        15              10             7
Increase (in %) in total
number of Post Office
Boxes in Operation (base
January 1, 1993)             --             100            --
Increase (in %) in
total volume of
express mail handled
(base January 1, 1993)       50            100             200
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through
4 (inclusive) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  17
      (b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
Page  18
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
