· &  · & .&  .                                           ·     짢
/ &  · . &  &.&- &  &[  · - ’스－,,  . & · . &
。                       /      .                    -
t            &                                .     .                                                   ·  I
-&  ,   . ·  』．。  &?  ,   .-&
·욘：  .,     . 」 · \\      &     / 
什 ∼   /
& 2
山，;. ／놀」／&,／·’」：「’스―&.&．··‘(:&..-．닐，-&&-.-1·，&,:&.&.&& ，」·‘,.-l


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1479 STV
OFF' IT I A L
OCUMENTS
Devel o-pnient Credit Agreement
K-
(Power Project)
between
SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1479 STV
DEVELOPMENT4 DIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      o(7-    "      2.      , 1984, between
SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEPEAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project) by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Saint Vincent
Electricity Services Limited (hereinafter called VINLEC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to VINLEC the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(C) by Resolution No. IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26,
1.982, of the Executive Directors of the Association, there has
been established by the Association a Special Fund constituted by
the funds which shall be contributed by certain members of the
Association and administered by the Association, acting as Admin-
istrator of such Special Fund for the purpose, and in accordance
with, the provisions of said Resolution;
(D) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for assis-
tance from the resources of the Special Fund in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution referred to
above;
(E) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Fund Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
Special Fund Credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund Credit)
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000) to assist in the financing
of the foreign exchange cost of such Parts of the Project, on the
terms and conditions therein set forth;
(F) the Borrower and VINLEC are arranging to finance the
cost of the Project, not financed under the Special Fund Credit
or hereunder, from the proceeds of certain loans and grants which


﻿- 2 -
include: (i) a grant equivalent to about eight million three
hundred thousand dollars ($8,300,000) principal amount from the
Canadian International Development Agency (hereinafter called the
CIDA Grant) and the Agreement providing for the CIDA Grant (here-
inafter called the CIDA Grant Agreement); (ii) a loan equivalent
to about four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000)
principal amount from the Caribbean Development Bank (hereinafter
called the CDB Loan) and the Agreement providing for the CDB Loan
(hereinafter called the CDB Loan Agreement); (iii) a loan of
about seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000)
from the United States Agency for Interoational Development
(hereinafter called the USAID Loan) and the Agreement providing
for the USAID Loan (hereinafter called the USAID Loan Agreement);
and (iv) a loan equivalent to about two million eight hundred
thousand dollars ($2,800,000) from the European Investment Bank
(hereinafter called the EIB Loan) and the Agreement providing for
the EIB Loan (hereinafter called the EIB Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreeient of even date herewith between the Association and the
Administrator and VINLEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have    the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and VINLEC of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-3-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b)  "IDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and VINLEC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "IDA Subsidiary Loan" means the
loan provided for in the IDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) "CDB" means Caribbean Development Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-


﻿drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1994, and ending February
1, 2034, each installment to and including the installment pay-
able on February 1, 2004, to be one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. VINLEC is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this


﻿- 5 -
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause VINLEC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable VINLEC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
VINLEC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and VINLEC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include
the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this
Section.
(c) The IDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter
alia, that: (i) the IDA Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and
repaid in dollars; and (ii) VINLEC shall: (A) repay the proceeds
of the Credit relent to VINLEC over a period of twenty years
including five years of grace; and (B) pay interest at the rate
of ten and eight-one hundredths percent (10.08%) per annum on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the IDA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the IDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants of the Borrower
Section 4.01. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain the Energy Desk within the Central
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Develop-
ment with its current functions and responsibilities, and shall
provide all funds and other resources required for the operation
of such Desk.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) promptly upon its
completion, furnish to the Association a copy of the tariff study
being carried out by the consulting firm of Coopers and Lybrand
and financed by CDB, and its recommendations, together with its
proposals based on such recommendations, for establishing a new
structure and rate levels for the sale of electricity in the
territories of the Borrower;
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such recommendations and proposals; and
(c) promptly thereafter, put into effect such structure and
rate levels "or the sale of electricity as shall be agreed upon
between the Borrower, CBD, the Association and VINLEC.
Section 4.03. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, at least until the Closing Date, reinvest in
capital stock of VINLEC any dividends paid to the Borrower by
VINLEC.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, within ninety days from
the submission of each rate increase application, take all
action necessary on its part to enable VINLEC to set and maintain
its electricity rates and charges at levels sufficient at all
times to fulfill VINLEC'Z obligations under Section 4.04 of the
Project Agreement, provided, however, that the application for
rate increases in fiscal year 1985 shall be approved by the
Borrower not later than October 31, 1984.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) VINLEC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary


﻿-7 -
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
VINLEC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) Act No. 14 of 1973 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
VINLEC or ability of VINLEC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of VINLEC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CIDA Grant or the CDB Loan or
the USAID Loan or the EIB Loan or the Special
Fund Credit or any other grant or loan made
to the Borrower or VINLEC for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) the CDB Loan, the EIB Loan, the USAID Loan or
the Special Fund Credit or any other such
loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematurity is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower or VINLEC to per-
form any of its obligations under such agreement;
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower and VINLEC from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower and VINLEC under this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and VINLEC;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subpara-
graph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and VINLEC;
(b) the parties providing for the CIDA Grant, the CDB Loan,
the USAID Loan and the EIB Loan have notified the Association
that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the
CIDA Grant, the CDB Loan, the USAID Loan and the EIB Loan have
been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement if such be the case;
(c) the Association has been furnished with evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that all land and rights in
respect of land required for the construction and operation of
the facilities included under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, ex-
cluding land required for the installation of penstocks asso-
ciated with the power generating plants, have been acquired by
VINLEC and are available to VINLEC for such purposes;


﻿-9-
(d) all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be per-
tormed or given by the Borrower or its agencies in order to
authorize VINLEC to start carrying out the Project have been
performed or given;
(e) the execution and delivery of the Special Fund Credit
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action and all other
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement pursuant to the provisions of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled;
(f) the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) (i) of
the Project Agreement have been employed by VINLEC; and
(g) the Project Manager referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement has been employed by VINLEC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by VINLEC, and is legally binding upon VINLEC in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the IDA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and VINLEC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and VINLEC in accordance with its
terms;
(c) that VINLEC is duly authorized and existing under the
laws of the Borrower and has full power and authority to carry
out and operate the Project, to own assets and properties and to
own and carry on the business which it owns and carries on and
proposes to own and carry on; that all acts, franchises, conces-
sions, consents and approvals necessary to start carrying out the
Project, including those referred to in paragraph (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement, have been duly and validly performed or
given; and that all easements, licenses, consents, franchises or
other rights or privileges as may be necessary or useful to start
carrying out the Project have been duly obtained or that the
arrangements for the acquisition thereof are valid and binding
obligations of the parties thereto; and


﻿- 10 -
(d) that all land and rights in respect of land referred to
in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been
legally and validly acquired by VINLEC and are freely available
to VINLEC for purposes of the  roect.
Section 6.03. The date      //        4 a' q1/,1/9 f is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (d), 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and termi-
nate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-one years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Financial Secretary of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Office of the Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Development
P.O. Box 608
Kingstown
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
Telex:
7531 FOREIGN VQ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Spe-
Amount of    cial Fund
the Credit     Credit       % of
Allocated    Allocated    Expendi-
(Expressed   (Expressed    tures
in SDR       in SDR      to be
Category         Equivalent) Equivalent) Financed
(1) Equipment and
materials:
(a) under Part         0        780,000)
A.3 of the                        )
Project                           )
(b) under Part         0        540,000)
B.1 of the                        )    100% of foreign
Project                           )    expenditures
(c) under Part         0         30,000)
C of the                          )
Project                           )
(2) Consultant ser-
vices, training
and related ex-
penditures:
(a) under Part         0        930,000)
A.1 of the                        )
Project                           )   100% of foreign
)   expenditures
(b) under Part         0         50,000)
A.3 of the                        )
Project                           )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of
the Spe-
Amount of    cial Fund
the Credit     Credit       % of
Allocated    Allocated    Expendi-
(Expressed   (Expressed    tures
in SDR       in SDR      to be
Category         Equivalent) Equivalent) Financed
(c) under Part         0        590,000 )
C of the                            )
Project                             )
(d) under Part         0        280,000 )
D.2 of the                          )
Project                             )  100% of foreign
) expendiutres
(e) Project         700,000                expditr)
Management                          )
for Part A.1                        )
of the                              )
Project                             )
(3) Unallocated             0        800,000
TOTAL     700,000   4,000,000
2.   For  the purposes   of  this  Schedule, the    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalen. of
SDR 20,000 in respect of Category 2 (e) of the table in para-
graph 1 above, may be made on account of payments made for expen-
ditures under such Category before that date but after May 1,
1984.
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
tie disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the   ,elopment Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises VINLEC's 1985-1989 investment program,
and its objectives are to meet the estimated energy generation
requirements through 1994, reduce substantially the import on
petroleum products, improve the quality of VINLEC's electricity
services, reduce the level of VINLEC's system distribution losses
and improve VINLEC's management and staff skills.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   (a) Acquisition and installation of three power generating
plants on the Cumberland River with a total capacity of
about 3.4MW.
(b) Acquisition and installation of a 33 kV-transmission
line from Cumberland to Cane Hall for the plants
referred to in paragraph (a) above.
2.   Acquisition and installation of about eight river stream-
gauging facilities and about twelve rainfall stations on
different rivers in order to establish a network which will
be the basis on which to develop additional hydroelectric
sites.
3.   Rehabilitation of the three existing diesel units at Cane
Hall diesel plant (about 3,500 KW) and the four existing
diesel units at Kingstown diesel plant (about 2,100 KW).
Part B:
1.   Acquisition, installation and reconductoring of High-Voltage
(11 kV and 6.3 kV) and Low-Voltage (400V and 230V) subtrans-
mission and distribution lines. Addition and replacement of
distribution transformers (with a total capacity of about
2,000 KVA), acquisition and installation of metering equip-
ment for about 1,000 customers; service drops, street
lighting, acquisition and utilization of utility vehicles.
2.   A  loss-reduction program   including  the acquisition  and
installation of capacitors (with a total capacity of about


﻿- 16 -
3,600 kVAR); acquisition -nd installation and replacement of
distribution transformers (with a total capacity of about
1,000 KVA); acquisition and installation of metering equip-
ment for about 5,000 customers; installation of service
drops, installation and reconductoring of High-Voltage and
Low-Voltage subtransmission and distribution lines; acquisi-
tion and utilization of utility vehicles, and provision of
material-storage facilities and staff.
Part C:
A training program aimed at upgrading VINLEC's staff
skills. The program will consist of scholarships abroad for
VINLEC technical and administrative staff; specific in-
house training programs for plant operators and linemen;
and acquisition and utilization of training materials and
equipment.
Part D:
1.   A program of technical assistance, including provision of
consultant services, aimed at improving VINLEC's operations,
management and administration.
2.   Studies aimed at preparing new hydroelectric projects.
T  P        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petiti.ve bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall cause VINLEC to prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall cause VINLEC to
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Contracts for the procurement of training equipment and
materials required for Part C of the L,vject, shall be awarded


﻿- 18 -
through limited international tendering after obtaining quota-
tions from a group of potential suppliers broad enough, under the
circumstances, to assure competitive prices in at least three of
the countries and territories eligible under the Guidelines. The
evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained through limited
international tendering and the award of contracts for goods so
to be procured shall be made in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines
except that no margin of preference otherwise applicable under
paragraph 3.9 of such Part of the Guidelines shall be allowed.
2.   Spare parts and other p-oprietary items required by VINLEC
for the rehabilitation of its diesel plant included under Part
A.3 of the Project may be procured directly by VINLEC from the
original manufacturers of such spare parts and items.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause
VINLEC to furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause VINLEC
to make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall cause VINLEC, before a final decision on the award
is made, to inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and to furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and VINLEC and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 19 -
(c) The terms .and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures) the Birrower shall cause VINLEC to furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and VINLEC and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower or VINLEC shall
inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower or VINLEC and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archi,,es of the Interna-
tional Dcvelopment Association.
In witness wh-reof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
FOR SECRETARY


