Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
<Date> 
Report No.:  AB6348 
 (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
e-Delivery of Public Services 
Region 
SAR 
Country 
India 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (100%) 
Operation ID 
P108258 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Implementing Agency 
GOVERNMENT OF BHARAT 
Date PID Prepared 
February 8, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
March 9, 2011  
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 14, 2011 or earlier (tbd) 
Corporate Review Decision 
Regional Operations Committee Meeting is scheduled on February 
23, 2011
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Economic growth has been impressive in India in recent years. The Government of India has made 
conscious policy decisions to contain the effects of the global crisis and therefore the crisis on economic 
growth was relatively mild. The Budget 2010-11 has reinforced the inclusive growth orientation of the 
Government while making growth more broad based and ensuring supply-demand imbalances are better 
managed. The Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2007-2012), with its emphasis, inter alia, on inclusive, 
sustainable growth and delivery of public services - provides the overall strategic thrust for economic 
policy. The government’s “inclusive growth” agenda has rightly identified as top priorities: bridging 
infrastructure gaps, promoting a competitive environment that supports private sector investment and job 
creation and ensuring access to social services. However, public services delivery continues to face 
enormous difficulties, especially in rural and remote areas. A central challenge is the need for better, 
timely, more reliable and more accessible system of delivery of public services. Better reach and reliable 
public services are needed at all levels, including the central, states, districts and down to the block and 
village level so that necessary policy actions and resultants services and their benefits can be customized 
to the local situation and effectively meet the local needs.  This has set the broad context of why the 
strengthening and modernization of the public services using electronic platforms has now become 
essential. 
 
India has successfully developed and implemented several large and complex IT-based service delivery 
initiatives by the early part of this decade. There have been significant achievements and some failures, 
but the assessment of these e-government initiatives clearly demonstrate that online services, whenever 
possible, have served citizens better by reducing the burden of having to physically visit separate 
agencies, make contact with public officials, and be subjected to officials’ discretion. To mainstream the 
implementation of electronic services in the country, Government of India approved the National e-
Governance Plan (NeGP) as a national program that would make most services available online, and all 
citizens would have access to them. The NeGP program supports development of a common strategy, 
sharing of core and support infrastructure, and interoperability through standards that would allow huge 
Page  2
savings in investment costs and provide citizens a seamless view of the government. The task being huge, 
the government has sought private sector’s participation in both financing and innovation.  
 
To transform public services, the NeGP program has selected high priority services, which touch the lives 
of a majority of citizens. There are 27 Mission Mode Projects (MMPs) covering a large number of public 
services that will be transformed from their current manual delivery to e-delivery. This is the main thrust 
area of the NeGP. Each MMP is owned and spearheaded by the relevant ministry  / agency of the national 
government or by a state government, and has a definite timetable, targeted service levels, project 
implementation team and process reengineering plans. The second major thrust of the NeGP is the 
establishment of Information Technology infrastructure to transmit electronic information. This includes 
State Wide Area Networks (SWANs), which are the converged backbone network for data, voice and 
video throughout a State / Union territory (UT), State Data Centers (SDCs) in all states/ UTs to provide 
the common secure IT infrastructure to host state-level e-government applications and data, and Common 
Service Centers (CSCs) which are ICT enabled, front end service delivery points at the village level for 
citizens to access public and private services, and be able to make financial transactions electronically.  
 
The third strand of NeGP’s implementation is effective coordination and management of this large and 
complex program with hundreds of implementing agencies at various levels in the government. This 
comprises development of policies, establishment of standards, monitoring and evaluation, 
communication and awareness building, project preparation support and technical assistance. These 
elements provide overall policy direction, coordinate among the NeGP’s components and lend cohesion 
to the whole program.  
 
2. 
Operation Objectives  
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the implementation of government’s reform 
program to strengthen the systems for electronic public services delivery and integrate them more 
effectively into a policy driven system. The proposed operation will support institutional strengthening of 
government agencies and minimize the problems / barriers in implementation of electronic services 
through policy reforms and institutional actions. These policy actions will ensure higher coordination 
across all central and state implementing agencies and will support increased outreach to the “common 
man”.  
This operation supports the government’s overall reform efforts aimed at improving e-governance and 
broader public administration through a set of policy initiatives including strengthening institutions with 
technical and professional specialists, providing project-development support and promoting public-
private partnerships. The policy actions will also include defining overall policy standards and technical 
frameworks, improving citizens’ participation, improving monitoring and evaluation, and supporting 
broadband and mobile platforms for improving the reach, quality and transparency of public services. In 
addition, government is also planning a legislation to support delivery of public services through 
electronic channels.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for the proposed operation is based on three main arguments
.
First, as noted above, it will 
support a program of reforms in public services which the Government of India itself has identified as a 
priority.  The government has sought programmatic assistance urgently as issues relating to institutional 
strengthening and central coordination need immediate attention and policy actions for improving the 
reach of public services have become critical. The proposed series of DPLs can support the government’s 
evolving needs over the next 2-3 years, through back-to-back operations. 
Page  3
Second, the objectives of the operation fit directly under the CAS pillar of improving public service 
delivery through policy reforms and strengthening institutional arrange
ments. The government’s policy 
reforms being supported by the program directly work towards achieving NeGP’s vision of ‘making all 
Government services accessible to the common man in his locality, and ensuring efficiency, transparency 
and reliability of such services at affordable costs’. NeGP’s implementation requires a government-wide 
coordination and coherence across agencies and levels of government, and expanded reach necessary to 
achieve transformative results through NeGP.  
Third, the policy reforms being undertaken by the government under the NeGP plan will support a very 
large scale public sector governance initiative. This development policy operation supports upstream, 
cross-cutting policy actions designed to leverage impact and improve results in delivery of public 
services.   
4. Financing 
 
DPL 1 IBRD Loan: US $ 150 million payable in a single disbursement on standard IBRD terms.  
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
Others (specifiy) 
0 
 Total 
150 
 
Another follow-up operation of US $ 150 million is planned within the next two years, based on the 
government’s reform process.  
5.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Policy decisions on NeGP are taken by a Cabinet Committee, while overall direction is provided by an 
Advisory Group on e-Governance led by the Prime Minister and with representation from ministries, state 
governments, National Knowledge Commission, and the Planning Commission. In addition, the 
Parliament’s Standing Committee on Information Technology maintains close oversight over progress of 
this national program.   
 
The program’s implementation is coordinated by an Apex Committee of Secretaries and headed by the 
Cabinet Secretary. DIT has been given the responsibility to provide support and coordination for program 
implementation. In the states, an Apex e-Governance Committee, headed by the Chief Secretary, provides 
overall implementation oversight and inter-departmental coordination. The Policy Program Matrix of the 
proposed operation will provide a results framework that describes expected outputs / outcomes, as well 
as indicators by which to gauge progress and monitor interim steps. The DIT has already established a 
core group of officials, headed by the Joint Secretary, DIT. Given the complexity and size of NeGP, a 
computerized M&E system will be developed.  This system will provide monitoring and evaluation views 
for the Apex Committee, program managers, project managers and program stakeholders. 
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
The main benefits are expected to be more reliable, timely, and accessible public services.  In India, 
access and quality of services is still modest because government processes and officials have an internal, 
rather than service, orientation and there has been little compulsion, yet, to force change. Online delivery 
of services is meant to improve the equity, convenience, transparency and accountability of government’s 
Page  4
interactions with citizens. The operation will support policies for support to weaker government agencies 
to build capacities to implement e-services. The government expects its policy reforms through re-
engineering processes to bring more efficient, accountable and transparent systems of service delivery. 
Re-orientation of public officials will help perceive citizens and businesses as customers, not subjects.  
The government’s policy reforms being supported by the DPL are expected to increase the efficiency and 
reliability of citizen services, expand access, and improve citizen engagement in e-services. Improving 
rural connectivity through policy on rural broadband will support the Common Service Center Scheme to 
function as front-end delivery points for the delivery of public and social services in an integrated 
manner, to rural and remote areas.  
The government aims to find mechanisms to empower citizens to hold government accountable for the 
implementation and results of e-Services projects.  The policy on social audits will enable citizens to 
evaluate whether e-services offered by Government achieve the expected improvements, and to hold 
government accountable if not. This will help ensure positive social impacts. 
 
The program implementation is monitored under the current institutional framework of the government. 
DIT has set up a national program management to support the NeGP’s Apex Committee. However, 
ineffective program management of this large and complex national can pose a major risk to 
implementation progress. Government is taking several measures to improve overall program 
management through inter-agency coordination, implement a computerized monitoring system, 
strengthening the voice of citizens and introducing social audits. There is also a concern that the increased 
participation of users and service orientation of public officials could end up being a mechanical process 
performed perfunctorily. Citizen-centric service delivery has not yet been mainstreamed in the public 
service and the benefits are perceived only after a few years. However, the success of implementation of 
Right to Information Act, 2005-- and especially how citizens are using it to hold public officials 
accountable--suggests that citizens, once introduced into NeGP’s implementation, will play a strong role.   
 
There is also an issue of limited capacity in implementing agencies implementing these reforms. 
However, the DIT has recently strengthened the central program management group with technical and 
professional staff. At the implementing agency level, an institutional strengthening initiative is being 
implemented under the program to put in place specialized teams of professional experts. The Bank will 
work closely with the government team, to offer guidance and assistance as required.  The program 
design has been simplified through selectivity of focus and a limited number of prior actions, which have 
been designed in closed consultation with the government team.  The program team will also seek 
professional and technical assistance through external resources.   
 
7.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects. 
 
The program is expected to have social benefits for the population. This is because its overall support is 
towards strengthening institutions that make government services accessible to the common man in his 
locality, and throughout common service delivery outlets at affordable costs. The actions highlighted 
under the DPLs will increase the efficiency and reliability of citizen services, expand access, and improve 
citizen engagement in e-services. These will be socially beneficial as they lead to an improved overall 
framework for public service delivery.  Reducing the financial and opportunity costs of obtaining specific 
services can have social benefits, and reduce leakages.  The Common Service Center Scheme will 
function as front-end delivery points for the delivery of public and social services in an integrated 
manner, to rural and remote areas.  The ultimate objective of providing one CSC for every 6 census 
Page  5
villages will enable the scheme to reach even far-flung villages.   Higher internet penetration rates, 
especially in rural India, and utilization of mobile phones for delivering e-services will benefit rural and 
remote communities. The program will also strengthen program monitoring and feedback from the 
targeted beneficiaries.  
 
Staff in Central and state government agencies will also benefit from additional support including 
technical experts, training and skills.  By improving the capacity of Central and state
 government’s 
agencies to develop and implement e-services and also analyze the level of quality and reliability of e-
services, the impact of policy interventions are expected to have a direct positive impact.  The operation 
will also contribute to improvements in the investment climate, partnerships with private sector service 
providers and the openness and transparency of government generally. 
The proposed operation is not expected to have any direct environmental effects.  As a result, 
environmental impacts associated with the proposed program are not likely to be significant and none of 
them are expected to be unprecedented, sensitive, or diverse.  
 
Contact point 
World Bank 
 
Ranjana Mukherjee 
Shashank Ojha 
Senior Public Sector Specialist  
Senior e-Government Specialist 
The World Bank 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street NW 
70 Lodhi Estate 
Washington DC 20433, USA 
New Delhi 110 003, India 
Tel: +1 202 473 4301 
Tel: (91) 11 41479 235 
Email: rmukherjee@worldbank.org 
Email: sojha@worldbank.org  
Borrower 
Contact: Abhishek Singh 
 
Title: Director, Department of Information Technology,  Ministry of Communication and IT, Government 
of India  
 
Tel: 91-11-24301216 
 
 
 
Email: abhishek@gov.in 
 
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
