                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2541



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-80290)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 150 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                         FOR

      E-DELIVERY OF PUBLIC SERVICES DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                    March 25, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 20, 2013)
                                 Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
                                       Rs. 54.41 = US $1

                             INDIA GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                          1 April to 31 March


                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPR     Business Process Reengineering          ISR             Implementation Status and Results
CAS     Country Strategy                        IT              Information Technology
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy            MPR             Monthly Progress Report
CSCs    Common Service Centers                  MMPs            Mission Mode Projects
DEA     Department of Economic Affairs          M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
DeitY   Department of Electronics and           NeGP            National e-Governance Plan
        Information Technology                  NeGD            National e-Governance Division
DIT     Department of Information               OPCS            Operations Policy and Country Services
        Technology                              PDO             Program Development Objectives
DPL     Development Policy Loan                 PMIS            Program Management Information System
DPR     Detailed Project Report                 PPP             Public Private Partnership
ESD     Electronic Service Delivery             RBI             Reserve Bank of India
FY      Fiscal Year                             RTI             Right To Information
GoI     Government of India                     RTPS            Right To Public Services
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                  SDCs            State Data Centers
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction   SeMTs           State e-Governance Mission Teams
        and Development                         SIL             Specific Investment Loan
ICR     Implementation Completion and           SWANs           State Wide Area Networks
        Results Report                          TA              Technical Assistance
ICT     Information and Communication           UID             Unique Identification
        Technology                              UT              Union Territory




                                         Isabel Guerrero, SARVP
                            Vice President:
                                         Onno Ruhl, SACIN
                          Country Director:
                                         Antonius Verheijen, SASGP
                           Sector Manager:
                                         Grace Morgan, SASGP and Shashank Ojha, TWICT
                        Task Team Leaders:
                         ICR Team Leader:Suresh Gummalam, EASPI
                                         Erwin Ariadharma, EASPI; Farah Zahir, SASGP
                       ICR Team Members:
                                         Satyendra Prasad, SASGP; Sapna John, SASGP
                                  INDIA
         E-DELIVERY OF PUBLIC SERVICES DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                      CONTENTS



     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring


1.     Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3.     Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 15
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6.     Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 24
Annex 2: Examples of State Government MMPs ............................................................. 25
Annex 3: Policy Matrix ..................................................................................................... 26
Annex 4: Single Tranche DPL – Prior Actions/Conditions and Status ............................ 31
Annex 5: NeGP Monitoring Reports ................................................................................ 33
Annex 6: Results at a Glance ............................................................................................ 37
Annex 7: Overall Program Outcome Achievement .......................................................... 39
Annex 8: Summary of Findings ........................................................................................ 40
Annex 9: Policy and Technical Support ........................................................................... 42
Annex 10: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 43
A. Basic Information
                                                                           e-delivery of Public
Country:                India                    Program Name:
                                                                           Services
Program ID:             P108258                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-80290
ICR Date:               03/28/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 150.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 150.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 150.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Electronics and Information Technology
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/19/2011      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:            02/22/2011      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/31/2011      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                06/30/2012           06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem         No                     Quality at Entry     None


                                                 i
Program at any time                               (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                            7                    7
Central government administration                                 41                   41
Information technology                                            33                   33
Sub-national government administration                            19                   19


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Managing for development results                                   70                  70
Other accountability/anti-corruption                               20                  20
Other public sector governance                                     10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Onno Ruhl                          N. Roberto Zagha
Sector Manager:            Antonius Verheijen                 Joel Hellman
Program Team Leader:       Grace Porter Morgan                Ranjana Mukherjee
ICR Team Leader:           Suresh Gummalam
ICR Primary Author:        Grace Porter Morgan
                           Suresh Gummalam


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The India e-Delivery of Public Services DPL supports the government's objective of
increasing access to online services by citizens in their locality. It will do this through
supporting policy and institutional actions that place higher emphasis on coordination and
increase outreach to citizens.




                                                 ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
There were no revised Program Development Objectives.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Strengthen state level institutions in e-governance
                                            1000 services (90
                   200 e-services at state
                                            e-services in less                1776 e-services at
Value              level (0 e-services in
                                            advanced states)                  state level and 225
(quantitative or   less advanced states)
                                            (130 e-services                   e-services through
Qualitative)       (11 e-services through
                                            through PPP                       PPP mode
                   PPP mode)
                                            mode)
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Development of technical standards for e-governance
Value
                   0 e-services from        75 e-services from                143 e-services from
(quantitative or
                   certified systems        certified systems                 certified systems
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Improve inter-agency coordination and monitoring e-governance
Value
                                            124 e-services                    246 e-services
(quantitative or   0 e-services monitored
                                            monitored                         monitored
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
                   Improve access to services by using the mobile platform while increasing the
Indicator 4 :
                   pace of internet penetration
                                                                             15.08 million
                                                                             broadband
                                            15 million
                                                                             subscription (Sept
                   8.77 million (end        broadband
                                                                             2012); 95,649
Value              March 2010); 80,000 connections;
                                                                             Common Services
(quantitative or   Service Access Points; 125,000 Service
                                                                             Center (CSC) rolled
Qualitative)       0 services on mobile     Acces Points; 50
                                                                             out with 80,733
                   platform                 services on mobile
                                                                             connected CSCs
                                            platform
                                                                             (Sept 2012); 113 e-
                                                                             services operational


                                                 iii
                                                                              under the PULL
                                                                              Services; 126 dep.
                                                                              integrated, services
                                                                              operational under
                                                                              PUSH SMS
                                                                              channel
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                        06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
                   Facilitate increased participation of users in design and evaluation of e-
Indicator 5 :
                   governance projects
                                                                                50 services under 5
                                                                                projects would have
Value                                                                           incorporated user
(quantitative or   0 e-services              100 e-services                     participation in
Qualitative)                                                                    design and impact
                                                                                assessment in the
                                                                                financial year
Date achieved      02/22/2011                06/30/2012                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Improve service orientation of government processes and officials
                                                                            246 e-services
                                                                            delivered through
                                           380 e-services
                                                                            re-engineered
                                           delivered through
                                                                            process; 200 more
                   8 e-services delivered re-engineered
                                                                            e-services to be
                   through re-engineered processes; 10
Value                                                                       accomplished by
                   processes; 0 states     states whose
(quantitative or                                                            the end of the FY;
                   whose officials have    officials have
Qualitative)                                                                Number of states
                   completed reorientation completed
                                                                            participated in the
                   or leadership program reorientation or
                                                                            Specialized
                                           leadership
                                                                            Training on e-
                                           program
                                                                            Governance
                                                                            program is 20
Date achieved      02/22/2011              06/30/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      E-services Delivery Law
                                                                              EDS Bill was
                   Second Administrative
                                            A draft ESD Bill                  introduced in the
                   Reform Commission
Value                                       has been                          Lok Sabha on 27th
                   recommends
(quantitative or                            formulated and                    December 2011.
                   developing full legal
Qualitative)                                submitted to the                  The Bill was
                   framework for e-
                                            Union Cabinet                     referred to the
                   governance
                                                                              Parliament



                                                 iv
                                                                             Standing
                                                                             Committee on IT
                                                                             on 5th January
                                                                             2012. The
                                                                             Committee has
                                                                             tabled its Report to
                                                                             Lok Shaba (laid in
                                                                             Rajya Sabha) on
                                                                             30th August 2012
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Uniform and predictable verification of e-service users
Value
                   0 e-services verifying   25 e-services
(quantitative or                                                             18 e-services
                   users                    verifying users
Qualitative)
Date achieved      02/22/2011               06/30/2012                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           For details, please refer to Annexes 3, 6, and 7.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                         Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
                   There were no Intermediate Outcome Indicators in the Operation Policy Matrix
Indicator 1 :
                   for e-Delivery of Public Services DPL.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                           IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)




                                                  v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                            vi
1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       Globally, rapid economic growth over the past decade has been slowing down in the
context of a weak external environment and structural constraints. However, India grew faster
than 92 percent of the world’s nations. Real GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent
between FY2000/01 and FY2010/11, helping the country reduce poverty (at the official poverty line)
by 1.5 percentage points per year between 2004 and 2009. India also weathered the 2008-09 global
crisis relatively well, with GDP growth slowing somewhat to 6.7 percent in FY2008/09 and
rebounding strongly to 8.4 percent in the two subsequent years. However, in FY2011/12 growth fell
to a nine-year low of 6.5 percent, with the slowdown most pronounced in mining and manufacturing
sectors amid a deceleration in the pace of investment activity. On the external side, the trade deficit
in FY2011/12 widened to a historic high of 6.8 percent of GDP as continued weakness in the Euro
zone translated into weak demand from India’s main export markets. As a result, and despite
continued strong growth in remittances, the current account deficit also worsened to a record 4.2
percent of GDP in FY2011/12. Meanwhile, inflation remained persistently high at 8.9 percent in
FY2011/12 (after averaging 5.6 percent during the previous decade) despite monetary tightening by
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).

2.       Electronics and Information Technology (IT) has been the fastest growing segment of
Indian industry and has consistently contributed to economic growth in India. The sector grew
ten-fold in revenue terms from USD 4.8 billion in 1997/1998, to USD 47.8 billion in 2006/2007. Its
contribution to GDP is estimated to have grown from 1.2 percent to 5.4 percent over the same
period. The Indian IT and IT-enabled service industry continues to grow five times as fast as the
global IT services industry. The industry is supported by a large skilled manpower base across the
country and there is active and healthy competition amongst states to attract investments in
infrastructure as well as to establish software parks.

3.       Against this backdrop of a largely private sector-led expanding IT sector, the Bank made
an investment of $150 million in the Government of India’s $9 billion National e-Governance
Plan (“NeGP?) aimed at strengthening and deploying IT capacity to remedy deep-seated service
delivery failures. The NeGP initiative was, in fact, one of many central and state government
strategies to improve the quality and efficiency of public service delivery. Other initiatives included:
the Right to Information (“RTI?), the Right to Public Services (“RTPS?), Grievance Redress,
Performance Management (through the use of Results Framework Documents), and other sector-
specific initiatives. Underpinning many of these efforts was an interest in using e-governance
platforms to create a more citizen-centered approach to public service delivery, to decrease leakages
and corruption, and to address concerns of disaffection and disempowerment. The Government
strengthened its commitment to this goal in mid-2012 by investing an additional $3.6 billion in the
establishment of broadband connectivity to 250,000 villages. (NeGP funding only goes to the block
level.) Currently, implementation of these efforts is converging at the state level.

4.       The push for service delivery improvement has been spurred by India’s weak performance
on key human development indicators. This underperformance is attributed to a variety of factors
including weaknesses in public management systems and capacities, rent-seeking, and a variety of
other institutional constraints. Generally, it is the poor who suffer the most from poor quality service
delivery. These core problems underscore the Bank’s commitment to improving service delivery, as
reflected in both its 2008-2011 Country Assistance Strategy (“CAS?) and the Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) for 2013 - 2017 under preparation which focuses on poverty reduction and shared
prosperity.


                                                   1
5.       The National e-Governance Program is one key element of the Government of India’s
efforts to improve service delivery. Approved by the central government in May 2006, the National
e-Governance Plan (“NeGP?) was introduced to replace an ad hoc array of e-governance initiatives
across individual agencies and states that had developed throughout the 1980s and 1990s. The
ambitious goal of the government-wide NeGP initiative is to make all government services
accessible to the common citizen in his/her locality, through common service delivery outlets. In
essence, the NeGP sought to increase the geographic reach of government service delivery and make
it more accessible to citizens of all socio-economic strata. The initiative focused on increased
efficiency, equity and transparency of services in order to promote a more citizen-friendly service
environment – specifically by reducing the burden of physical visits to separate agencies for citizens,
providing ready access to information about the availability of services, and reducing the discretion
of officials in the delivery of public services.

6.     More specifically, the NeGP has sought to transform service delivery across the country
through the following activities:

        The introduction of a massive new IT infrastructure (including State Data Centers in all
         states / Union Territories (“UT?) and State Wide Area Networks (SWANs) which connect
         all levels of government down to the block level). Under NeGP, it is proposed to create
         State Data Centers for the States to consolidate services, applications and infrastructure to
         provide efficient electronic delivery of Government to Government, Government to Citizen,
         and Government to Business services.

        The creation of IT-enabled Common Service Centers (CSCs) which provide one-stop access
         to e-services at the doorstep of many Indian villages.

        Use of the mobile phone network to expand the access of citizens to various e-services.

        Sectoral and other priority projects (Mission Mode Projects, “MMPs?) to be transformed
         using e-delivery of services. "Mission Mode" projects are owned and spearheaded by
         various line Ministries concerned for Central, State, and Integrated MMPs. A full listing of
         MMPs can be found at: http://deity.gov.in/content/mission-mode-projects. Selected state
         MMPs are listed in Annex 2.

        The establishment of common standards, specifications, and policies to ensure that
         individual e-services function effectively as part of a broader government-wide system,
         allowing sharing and cross-referencing of information across services.

        A targeting of key points of interaction between citizens and the state including birth and
         death registration, tax filing, land records, driver’s licenses and vehicle registration,
         passports and visas, agricultural extension services, and a wide range of municipal and
         panchayat services. In addition, the NeGP has aimed to enable much wider access to a
         number of critical private sector services such as banking, insurance, and trade.

        The establishment of State e-Governance Mission Teams (SeMTs) and central NeGD staff
         to provide the required capacity to implement the NeGP across the country.

7.     While headway has been made in a number of these areas, other areas (particularly the
MMPs and low-income states) have exhibited weaker performance. The implementation of the
MMPs is the primary responsibility of line ministries and departments, yet, many of the state
departments, in particular, have not made NeGP a high priority. Furthermore, low-income states
have been slower to build the necessary capacity to implement the NeGP, creating a noticeable gap
                                                  2
between these states and more advanced states which have pursued a more aggressive
implementation strategy. The obstacles related to MMPs and low-income states were evident in the
early phases of the NeGP program, and laid the foundation for the Bank engagement in 2010. In
2010, the Government recognized that the uneven progress of NeGP was not the result of funding
constraints or the absence of specific investments, but rather challenges associated with cross-cutting
policy and coordination at the program level. Some of the critical issues included underperformance
of the MMPs, the lack of a clear policy framework to guide the disparate IT initiatives, and a
growing gap between more advanced states and those with substantially lower capacity.
Government policies were needed to provide a framework for the program and institutional actions
in key areas such as government process re-engineering, the use of mobile phones in accessing
services, citizen engagement in the design of e-services, and the framework for Public Private
Partnerships in public service delivery. A comprehensive national program of capacity building and
institutional strengthening was called for to address the uneven progress in specific states and
agencies as well as to re-orient officials to new ways of interacting with citizens. A stronger
methodology and implementation framework for monitoring and impact assessment was required to
track progress, to ensure coordination, and to focus central assistance in areas requiring additional
support including in states where e-governance has been much slower to take off.

8.       In order to address these implementation constraints, GOI requested programmatic
support from the World Bank for NeGP in 2010. Given the background of its six year technical
assistance engagement with the Department of Information Technology (DIT, subsequently renamed
Department of Electronics and Information Technology or DeitY), the Bank was well positioned to
respond to this request speedily. The request created a new opportunity for the Bank to restructure
its e-governance engagement with the Government of India from a SIL to a DPL, and to ensure that
citizen service delivery was placed at the center of the e-governance program. This approach was
more consistent with both Bank and GoI priorities, and it recognized the findings of the 2008
Administrative Reforms Commission report which emphasized that governance reforms rather than
ICT investments should be the focus to achieve maximum outcomes and benefits from NeGP. A
programmatic DPL provided a focal point for the Government to convene departments and levels of
government around a service delivery reform agenda that could leverage the efficiencies and access
opportunities of IT.

9.      The adopted programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL) aligned well with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The DPL contributed to the CAS’ third pillar in which the
World Bank commits to support improvements in the organization and delivery of publicly-financed
services and its cross cutting focus on enhancing governance as a pre-requisite for inclusive growth
and poverty reduction.

10.      The investment was structured as a programmatic DPL so that the Bank could leverage a
longer-term engagement with the government. While the DPL had a 2-year programmatic design
(as reflected in the policy matrix), the funding amount of $150 million was only for the first year.
The second year of the operation, which was also intended to be for $150 million, required a
separate negotiation. The program design provided some flexibility to the Government given
potential complications related to the Single Borrower Limit (SBL). The concern about reaching the
SBL developed as a result of the rapid commitment of IBRD resources to manage the impact of a
global financial crisis.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

11.      The overarching development objective of the DPL series was to increase access to online
services by citizens in their localities. The DPL aimed to do this through supporting policy and
institutional actions in two pillars:

                                                  3
         Pillar I: Higher Emphasis on Coordination (involving 3 Reform Areas), and
         Pillar II: Increased Reach Out to Citizens (involving 5 Reform Areas).

       The diagram below shows all 8 reform areas and their related indicators associated with
measuring performance.




1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

12.       The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

13.     Each of the eight reform areas supported by the DPL is described below, accompanied by
its expected results.

                            Pillar 1. Higher emphasis on coordination

14.      Policy Area 1.1:  Strengthen states’ institutions in e-governance. The institutional
strengthening program aimed to support more robust implementation of the NeGP in low-income
states by:

         increasing state capacity to prepare and implement e-governance initiatives, and
         laying the foundation for greater private sector participation through PPPs in e-governance
          efforts (as private partners, financial institutions, and investors will be better informed about
          the business potential of e-services).

State-level institutional strengthening was intended to result in the implementation of a larger
number of NeGP project proposals from states, decreasing the gap between the more and the low-
                                                     4
income states as well as enhancing e-service delivered through the PPP mode. Ultimately, the state
level institutional strengthening aimed to increase the number of available services being offered
online.

15.     Policy Area 1.2: Development of technical standards. Standards for e-governance
(including those related to hardware, software and websites) were critical to promote sharing of
information and seamless interoperability of data across e-governance applications. Technical
standards needed to be developed to ensure the transparency, efficiency, reliability and
interoperability of all of government systems. Open standards would protect systems from
becoming vendor–locked-in and allow technology neutrality. To track progress towards
interoperability and reliability of services, compliance of e-services with technical standards for e-
governance would be measured.

16.     Policy Area 1.3: Improve Inter-Agency Coordination and Monitoring of e-governance.
The success of NeGP depended on the actions of many ministries and agencies at different levels of
government, requiring an unusually high degree of coordination. A strong monitoring system was
particularly important to generate accurate and up-to-date performance information on all Mission
Mode Projects (MMPs). The DPL involved the systematic collection of information to contribute to
improved decision making at the level of the Apex Committee. Better coordination would lead to
faster implementation, less duplication and a more optimal allocation of resources. This in turn
would lead to greater access and better quality of e-services.

                              Pillar 2. Increased outreach to citizens.

17.     Policy Area 2.1: Improve access to services by using mobile platforms and increasing the
pace of internet penetration. The government's aim of providing web-enabled, anytime, anywhere
access to information and e-services was constrained by limited access to broadband services,
especially in rural areas. This limitation adversely affected the success of Common Services Center
Scheme. Providing broadband to rural areas, setting up Common Services Centers, and making
services available on the mobile platform aimed to increase citizen access to online services.

18.     Policy Area 2.2: Facilitate increased participation of users in design and evaluation of e-
governance projects. The government sought to make e-services user-centric by altering the
asymmetry in power between users and public officials in determining the design and evaluation of
Mission Mode Projects (MMPs). To this end, guidelines would be developed to define how MMPs
would: (i) conduct needs assessments, (ii) involve stakeholders, and (iii) measure performance on
the basis of user satisfaction. The objective was to improve service delivery as a result of enhanced
user feedback.

19.      Policy Area 2.3: Improve service orientation of government processes and officials. User
surveys revealed that computerization of existing manual processes through e-services was not
having a substantial impact on customer convenience, cost reduction, waiting time, and corruption.
Re-engineering of existing business processes was needed to make significant service delivery
improvement. This would require mapping of existing processes, determination and elimination of
duplicate and unnecessary steps, and monitoring of results. In addition, the successful design and
implementation of e-governance would require a new orientation of public officials emphasizing
customer service instead of control, knowledge sharing instead of knowledge hoarding, cooperation
instead of competition, and transformation instead of computerization of processes. This policy area
would focus on both business process e-engineering and re-orientation or leadership programs for
officials.



                                                  5
20.      Policy Area 2.4: Electronic Service Delivery law. The DPL aimed to support the adoption
of legislation that made electronic delivery mandatory for priority public services, establishing a
mandatory timeline for transforming public policies. Such legislation would define the institutional
framework for e-service delivery and would address the role, functions and responsibilities of
different government organizations, the mechanism for coordination across government, the
definition of an oversight mechanism, and the relevant financial arrangements. The law would
provide the legal framework for a gradual, nationwide improvement in computerization and online
delivery of government services in all states and UTs. The common timetable set by the act would
encourage low-income agencies to implement their MMPs. It would make public officials
accountable for achieving benchmarks of e-service availability and quality. It would empower
citizens to demand and receive quality services and to hold officials accountable for not doing so.

21.     Policy Reform 2.5: Uniform and predictable verification of e-service users. To deliver
electronic services, various types of identification need to be automated. Several electronic services
have already developed systems to verify these identifications. A national verification framework is
required to make sure of the identity of the online service user and to manage identity related risks.
Verification is commonly done by providing a username and a password. The DPL aimed to put in
place systems of verification which could be accessed anytime, anywhere associated with e-services.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

N/A

1.6 Other significant changes

22.      The design of the original DPL reflected the request by the GoI for a series of two
single tranche DPLs, in IBRD’s FY11 (2010-2011) and FY 13 (2012-2013). FY12, or year 2011-
2012, would allow for first year results to take hold and to prepare the second DPL. The DPL which
is the focus of this ICR was the first operation of a broader programmatic series. In the Project
Document the first operation is referred to as E-delivery of Public Services DPL I. The project
design assumed that the first year operation would be accompanied by a second year
operation, referred to as E-delivery of Public Services DPL II. Funding for DPL II would
be secured through a separate funding process, culminating in FY13. Evidence of the
programmatic design can be seen in the policy matrix, which includes policy action triggers
and targets for 2 individual years, 2010-2011 and 2012-2013.

23.      In the middle of the first year operation of DPL I, the Government of India expressed
reluctance about a second year operation. The GoI indicated it was considering whether other
types of non-DPL Bank financing would be more appropriate than the originally designed DPL. The
government also mentioned the possibility of refocusing the 2nd year operation to more state-oriented
activities. The government’s deliberations were fundamentally linked to the IBRD Single Borrower
Limit (“SBL?).

24.     After months of discussion, these communications culminated in a formal communication
(dated May 4, 2012) from the Government of India DEA to DeitY stating that it would not proceed
with E-delivery of Public Services DPL II. The government later indicated that the World Bank
should refocus its e-governance efforts to provide TA and capacity building. (Two months from
closing, an Office Memorandum dated May 4, 2012 issued by the Ministry of Finance/DEA to the
Ministry of Communications and IT stated that "while reviewing IBRD/IDA pipeline projects" the
Government of India would "not go ahead with E-Delivery of Public Services DPL II" and, instead,

                                                  6
"may consider a small TA/Capacity Building project as a fresh project". The comment reflects an
interest of the GoI in receiving TA, not additional financing as of May 2012.)

25.     The cancellation of E-delivery of Public Services DPL II altered the program design of
the originally-approved programmatic E-delivery of Public Services DPL. Instead of supporting a
programmatic DPL (one DPL with a series of two operations), the World Bank found itself
supporting a single-tranche, single-year DPL. The rest of this ICR evaluates the single-tranche,
single-year DPL, but acknowledges that the original design was a multi-year programmatic DPL.

2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

26.      Actual performance data by indicator and reform area can be seen in the policy operation
matrix, which is provided in Annex 3. In addition, the tables in Annex 4 provide a list of each
reform area and the prior actions/conditions required for release of funding, and a comment on the
status of the reform area. As is reflected in these tables, all 7 first-year prior actions were met, and 6
of 7 second year triggers were achieved. Of the first year prior actions, all 7 prior actions were
verified by the project team and confirmed by legal counsel prior to Board approval. As it relates to
the second operation triggers, all were met and the remaining trigger is in process of being met.

27.      While loan disbursement was delayed, the delay does not appear to have affected program
performance. The delay in disbursement was the result of SBL constraints and DEA efforts to
ensure that DeitY was well-prepared to manage and spend the DPL funds. While it took some time
for the Government to manage through these problems (six months in total), there is no indication
that these financial problems had any relationship to the Government’s commitment to the NeGP.
The table below provides information related to the amount and release date of funding, which
reflects late disbursement of the loan.

                          Single Tranche DPL - Amount and Release Date
Tranche #            Amount (USD)      Expected Released   Actual Released                  Release
                                       Date                Date
Tranche 1            149,625,000       September 1, 2011   December 20, 2011                Regular
Front-end Fee        375,000           60 days after loan
                                       effectiveness date
                                       (July 1, 2011)

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

28.    Despite the disbursement delay, the major factors affecting implementation have mostly
been positive, contributing to the progress of NeGP implementation. These include the following:

         Extensive technical assistance and consultations provided by the Bank to the GoI prior
          to DPL preparation and throughout the implementation of the loan. This technical
          assistance strengthened the program management and institutional framework of the NeGP.
          In addition, the Bank played an important role of convener by pulling together relevant
          departments and ministries to develop a needed consensus within the Government of India
          for the policy reform framework.

         Awareness and commitment of the Government of India to build a positive enabling
          environment for the NeGP. The success of the NeGP program was predicated on high-
          level commitment of central and state governments. Senior officials recognized that India’s
                                                    7
          strong private sector IT capacity was a resource to be leveraged. Many of these visionary
          leaders provided stalwart support of the NeGP, helping the center and state governments to
          overcome major challenges related to cross-agency coordination, policy and institutional
          frameworks, budget support and PPP arrangements, and legal matters related to privacy and
          data security.

         Well defined roles and responsibilities of central and state entities to support NeGP
          implementation. In accordance with the NeGP, new institutions have been created, such as
          Apex Committees and SeMTs, which have resulted in central and state e-governance
          capacity that has depth and sustainability. A description of various organizations involved
          in     NeGP       implementation      is   available    on     the    following   websites:
          http://deity.gov.in/content/national-e-governance-plan and http://negp.gov.in/.

29.       There have been challenges affecting program implementation. They include:

         Insufficient user participation in the design and evaluation of projects, and weak MMP
          performance. Both of these aspects of the NeGP were recognized as implementation
          challenges before and during the DPL, and they remain so today. Ineffective coordination
          between DIT and line ministries rests at the heart of the poor MMP performance. The Bank,
          as convener, lost an opportunity to support efforts to overcome these organizational barriers
          to move forward the MMP reforms.

         Performance gaps between more advanced and low-income states continued to be a
          challenge. The Program Document clearly recognized the NeGP performance gaps between
          various states in India. In fact, parts of the NeGP were designed to address these gaps,
          particularly in areas where performance was attributed to capacity issues. While progress is
          being made in this area, performance gaps between states continues to be an issue, reflected
          in the request that the Bank shift its focus to low-income states.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

30.     A stronger institutional framework was established to monitor the implementation of
NeGP.      At the center, the Prime Minister’s Committee on NeGP was developed to provide
leadership, prescribe deliverables and milestones, and monitor the overall implementation of NeGP.
The Prime Minister’s Committee on NeGP included representation drawn from relevant
ministries/departments, planning commission, industry experts, and others. The Department of
Electronics and Information Technology as the implementing agency of NeGP, was tasked with the
oversight function associated with monitoring and evaluation of NeGP implementation at state and
central levels; this included infrastructure and technical components. In the states, an Apex
Committee headed by Chief Secretary would provide implementation oversight and inter-
departmental coordination.

31.     The World Bank provided extensive input and technical assistance to the Government of
India to support the development of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework for the
NeGP. This was an important contribution to the program management of NeGP, reflected in the
government’s adoption of the M & E framework to provide a base for a more extensive M&E
system. The system has been further enhanced using an IT-based application called the Program
Management Information System (PMIS). This monitoring system is now being used routinely to
track performance of Mission Mode Projects, infrastructure development, and other critical aspects
of the NeGP. Currently, there have been around 22 operational projects actively tracked through the
system. PMIS can be viewed at www.egovpmis.gov.in. Monthly Progress Reports (MPR) include
review and analysis of MMP performance using standardized templates. Similarly, the status of core
                                                   8
infrastructure is also reported through the MPR. The Prime Minister has appointed a NeGP Expert
Group which reviews each of the MMPs in order to identify critical operational, legal, financial and
institutional issues and bottlenecks. See Annex 5 for examples of routine monitoring reports and
evaluations.

32.      The Department of Electronics and IT also monitors a number of electronic transactions
related to service delivery by states and UTs. Currently, there are more than 80 million electronic
service transactions per month conducted under the NeGP by states/UTs.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

33.      While the Bank engagement with NeGP formally ended with the DPL, the Government of
India supports ongoing Bank engagement at the state level to facilitate NeGP implementation. In
a May 2012 Office Memorandum from the Ministry of Finance/Department of Economic Affairs
(DEA) to DeitY, the DEA suggests that the DeitY focus its e-governance efforts with the Bank in the
areas of technical assistance and capacity building. Later the GoI clarified that it prefers that the
Bank focus its’ e-governance efforts on NeGP implementation in low-income states. This
suggestion is consistent with the Bank’s re-enforced emphasis on low-income states as reflected in
the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2013 - 2017 under preparation. To this end, the Bank
has engaged with several state governments – including the states of Assam, Mizoram and Madhya
Pradesh – to support e-governance service delivery improvement. Non-lending technical assistance
in this area is being provided to both Assam and Mizoram, and requests for investment lending are
underway for all three.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.      The objective of the E-delivery of Public Services Development Policy Loan was to
support the GoI in implementation of its National e-Governance Plan through supporting policy
and institutional actions that placed higher emphasis on coordination and increased outreach to
citizens. The goal of this government-wide initiative was to make all government services accessible
to the citizen in his/her locality, through common service delivery outlets and to ensure efficiency,
transparency and reliability of such services to realize basic needs at affordable costs.

35.     The program objective was relevant to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India
covering Fiscal Years 2009 to 2012. The loan objective was pertinent to the CAS’ third pillar in
which the Bank committed to support improvements in the organization and delivery of publicly-
financed services as a means of addressing India’s weak performance on key human development
indicators. The loan objective also contributed to the CAS’ cross cutting focus on enhancing
governance as a pre-requisite for inclusive growth and poverty reduction. By making affordable
public services available to citizens, the DPL was intended to contribute to the CAS’ first pillar of
making growth inclusive.

36.     DPL1 outcomes are highly relevant to the new 2013-2017 CPS (Engagement Area 3
“Inclusion?) and its focus on working in low-income states. Towards the end of DPL I, at the
request of the GoI, the Bank refocused its e-governance efforts on low-income state implementation.
This request is highly consistent with the Bank’s new strategy for engagement in India. The
engagements with Assam, Mizoram, and Madhya Pradesh support this new direction.

37.    The program objective complemented other Bank Operations in India – specifically the 19
e-governance initiatives in different sectors such as education, health, urban and rural
                                                 9
development, irrigation, and social welfare. These efforts and the NeGP initiative would benefit
from common service delivery policies, a supporting legislative framework, citizen and stakeholder
consultations, shared ICT infrastructure, technology standards, technical assistance, monitoring and
organized knowledge sharing networks.

38.      The objectives of the DPL were developed based on an assessment of policy constraints
and the overall progress of the implementation of e-governance at the central and state levels of
government. Prior to the introduction of the DPL, the NeGP lacked a broad national policy
framework to support coordination between central ministries as well as between the center and
state-level institutions. This was particularly problematic due to the large scale nature and
complexity of the NeGP initiative. To this effect, a programmatic DPL was chosen and introduced as
the appropriate lending instrument to support upstream, cross-cutting policy actions designed to
leverage impact and improve results in delivery of public services. Given the need for a NeGP
policy framework, the DPL appeared to be well-suited to supporting the needs of the Government of
India.

39.     The DPL supported the Government’s overall reform effort by developing a policy
framework which included the following components:           policy standards and technical
frameworks; improving citizen participation; improving monitoring and evaluation; and
supporting broadband and mobile platforms for improving the reach, quality and transparency of
public services.

40.      Despite the positive performance of the DPL, the GoI cancelled DPL II mainly because of
changing government priorities related to the Single Borrower Limit (SBL). A letter dated
February 7, 2011 from the Ministry of Finance to the World Bank provided an early indication that
the Government preferred to maintain flexibility as it relates to the second operation of the DPL,
mainly because of the SBL issue. The letter stated “The triggers for the 2nd DPL will be flexible so
that there may be easy exit option for the recipient in case GOI does not agree for the 2nd DPL.?
Therefore, it was not a complete surprise when, early in the period of DPL effectiveness, the
Government indicated it was near to reaching the IBRD SBL. This realization facilitated DPL II
cancellation, shifting the Bank’s e-governance reform strategy away from central policy to one
focused on implementation at state level, in particular in low-income states. As of January 2013, the
Bank’s non-sectoral e-governance efforts reflect this shift, evidenced by e-governance engagements
and discussions with Assam, Mizoram, and Madhya Pradesh.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

41.      The Program Document describes the Program Development Objectives as follows:
“DPL I supports the government’s objective of increasing access to online services by citizens in
their locality. It will do this through supporting policy and institutional actions that place higher
emphasis on coordination and increase outreach to citizens.? To this end, the policy matrix was
developed to provide a framework for assessing achievement of objectives. The policy matrix
defined the targeted reform areas, targets and outcomes to be achieved. Utilizing this policy matrix,
and the related guidance in the Program Document, the ICR team assessed performance in achieving
objectives. As it relates to the policy matrix, the team used the following assumptions in its
assessment:

         “Status 2010-2011? column reflects the status as of when the DPL was submitted to the
          board of the World Bank.

         “Target 2012-2013? column reflects the targets to be used to measure the performance of the
          first year operation of the DPL. The intent was to have the first year of the DPL operation
                                                  10
          end in June 2012, and then to give a second year for reforms to take effect before measuring
          performance of the first operation in June 2013.

         “End of Series Outcome and Indicator 2013-2014? reflects the outcome and targets for the
          end of the DPL programmatic series. The series would have ended in June 2014, and
          performance of the programmatic DPL would have been measured at this time.

         Given the DPL closing date of June 2012, data reflecting June 2012 performance was
          considered to reflect actual program performance. (While the data provided by the GoI for
          the ICR analysis were dated September 2012, the GOI indicated that the September data
          were not significantly different than June 2012 data.)

42.      Based upon an analysis of performance indicators included in the policy operation
matrix, the DPL operation has demonstrated positive program performance in terms of achieving
objectives. Of the twelve performance targets, half met or exceeded the “End of Series Outcome and
Indicator 2013/2014? targets, while the remaining six reflect a consistent and positive movement in
the direction of outcome achievement and are related mainly to the scaling up of the activities started
under the first year of the DPL. The positive results are particularly impressive given that these
targets were designed to measure performance in June 2014, not 2012. See “Results at a Glance –
Performance against End of Series? in Annex 6 for an overview of this performance.

43.    Of the six end of series 2013-2014 outcomes and targets which are not fully met, positive
progress is evident in all areas as reflected below:

         Broadband: The first year target of 15 million reflects the number of subscribers eligible to
          receive Internet-based connectivity. This target has been met. The second year target of 40
          million subscribers assumes an expansion of e-services using mobile-based 3G services.
          Given India’s 76% mobile penetration rate, relative to its 10% internet penetration rate,
          mobile-based Internet provides an enormous opportunity to connect directly with citizens.
          The 3G expansion was delayed due to irregularities in India’s 3G spectrum auction process.
          However, these problems have been addressed, allowing 3G services to be expanded across
          the country over the next 2 years. This expansion will provide the infrastructure for a
          massive increase in mobile-based e-services, which will result in meeting the 40 million
          target.

         Service Access Points: In accordance with the National Telecom Policy, the Government of
          India has changed its approach to providing village-level access to public services for
          citizens. The policy aims to provide high speed and high quality broadband access to all
          village panchayats through a combination of technologies by the year 2014 and
          progressively to all villages and habitations by 2020. Instead of continuing to expand
          Service Access Points, the Government has decided to establish 150,000 Government
          Access Points (GAP) in panchayats in every village. To this end, the procurement of
          cabling connectivity to the panchayats is underway. Both SAPs and GAPs will provide
          citizen access to public services at the village level, meeting the anticipated 250,000 target
          of SAP/GAPs.

         User Participation: DIT has announced a new citizen engagement policy, and has recruited
          consultants to assess program impact in order to ensure that NeGP is having a positive
          impact on citizens.

         BPR: DeitY has issued a new policy on Business Process Re-engineering which will
          increase substantially the number of BPRs conducted under the NeGP. The policy (i)
                                                   11
          requires all implementing agencies which are requesting NeGP funding to conduct BPRs for
          their e-services processes, and (ii) establishes a BPR cell to provide TA and guidance to
          central and state departments which are conducting BPRs as a part of NeGP modernization.
          The policy makes a critical link between funding and BPRs, and this will undoubtedly
          increase BPR activity associated with NeGP implementation.

         Reorientation program: State e-Governance Mission Teams (SeMTs) have been established
          in all states and one of the priorities of these teams is to plan and implement reorientation
          programs for public officials. In addition, DeitY has strengthened its efforts to coordinate
          and monitor state training efforts related to this objective.

         Number of e-services verifying users: Two factors will dramatically increase the number of
          e-services verifying users: (i) a National e-Authentication Framework which has now been
          approved and put in place, and (ii) the UID and NPR initiatives which are being roll-out
          across the country. The increase in the number of e-services verifying users is expected to
          be evident over the next year or two.

44.      The positive performance reveals that the Government of India is highly engaged in
managing the growth of a complex national program which is broadening citizen access to public
services at the village level. The ICR Team believes that the achievement of half of the 2013-2014
end of series outcome targets, and the positive direction toward achieving the remaining targets,
reflects a strong performance of the government to manage and implement the NeGP. See Annex 7
for a diagram displaying outcome achievement.

45.      Performance is even stronger relative to first year 2012/2013 targets. In this case, nine of
the twelve performance targets were exceeded and three were partially met. Since the effective target
date is June 2013, and the actual program performance data provided by the government reflects a
date of June 2012, it is quite possible that the three “partially unmet? targets will be met by June
2013, resulting in all first-year targets being met.

46.      As is reflected in Results at a Glance for 2012-2013 in Annex 6, the 2012/2013 targets
were met in five of the eight reform areas by the time of loan closing in June 2012. It is possible
that additional reform areas will meet the 2012/2013 target by June 2013 (the appropriate date of
measurement). All reform areas under Pillar I (reform areas 1.1, 1.2, and 1.3) reflected strong
performance in terms of achievement of the 2012-2013 targets. In fact, most of Pillar I reform areas
have exceeded 2013-2014 targets, which were designed to measure performance at the end of the
series in June 2014. Concerning reform areas under Pillar II (reform areas 2.1 to 2.5), over half of
the reform areas exceeded the 2012-2013 targets, and the possibility remains that others will be
added to this as the program continues to progress up to June 2013.

47.    The ICR Team believes that an appropriate assessment of performance would focus on
both End of Series Outcomes and 2012-2013 first year targets for two reasons:

         The first year indicators (“Target 2012-13?) were designed to measure progress of the first
          operation in June 2013. Given that the operation had only one year of effectiveness, use of
          the first year indicators would maintain consistency between actual operation and
          evaluation.

         The cancellation of DPL II was not the result of a lack of commitment of the Government of
          India to governance or the National e-Governance Plan. Instead, DPL II was cancelled
          because of financial constraints related to the Single Borrower Limit, and the resulting
          decision by the Government to fund the NeGP on its own. In fact, after DPL II was
                                                   12
        cancelled, the Government launched a massive initiative to strengthen the NeGP by
        accelerating the delivery of government services in villages – a $3.6 billion program to
        provide broadband connectivity to 250,000 villages. The investment clearly indicates that
        the GoI has a high level of commitment to the NeGP and the objectives of the DPL. In sum,
        the DPL II cancellation related to SBL complexities and Government decisions to manage
        this problem. In no way or form did the cancellation reflect weak government commitment
        to the e-governance national agenda.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

48.     Outcome measurement was challenging as the outcome targets were designed for a 2014
DPL closing. The challenge related to the discontinuation of the programmatic DPL series. The
DPL closed in June 2012 after the first operation – a full two years ahead of the originally designed
end of series. To address this complexity, the ICR team assessed performance against targets for
both end of series 2013-2014 and 2012-2013. To secure a better understanding of NeGP outcomes,
the ICR team also examined findings of third party impact assessments of NeGP.

49.      While the entire program was not completed in a manner that was envisioned in the
Program Document, the evidence collected by the ICR team suggests that the direction in which
the reform areas are progressing for achieving the end of series outcomes is positive. An
assessment of end of series 2013-2014 outcomes and targets and the first year 2012/13 performance
targets reflects significant, ongoing achievement. Half of the performance indicators have exceeded
the 2013-2014 targets –almost two years earlier than expected – and the remaining indicators reflect
positive progress. Relative to the 2012-2013 indicators, nine of the twelve indicators have exceeded
the target, and likelihood of all targets being achieved by the June 2013 measurement date remains a
strong possibility. Performance is particularly strong under Pillar I, which relates to institutional and
policy coordination.

50.     The decision of the Government to fund the NeGP without the Bank’s second phase of
financing should not jeopardize the positive performance of the first year operation. While the
Bank often views program cancellation as a lack of government commitment to a given development
agenda, this is not the case with this DPL. In this case, the Government was managing Single
Borrower Limit challenges.

51.    It is important to recognize that the Government’s decision to cancel DPL II was
accompanied by a major government investment of $3.6 billion to expand the effectiveness and
reach of the NeGP. This investment is an important sign of the depth of government support for the
NeGP.

52.      Third party impact evaluations were sought to obtain additional evidence of the degree to
which the NeGP is achieving outcomes similar to those in the policy matrix; the evaluations
indicate that the NeGP is contributing to significant improvements in service quality. These
evaluations provide objective evidence about the outcome performance of the NeGP. Based upon
the national level “Impact Assessment on e-Governance Projects?, the evaluation found that
significant improvements in service quality were evident with NeGP programs which have
undertaken a thorough business process reengineering and automation reform. For the state level
assessment, improvement in service quality was evident in a number of areas including the number
of trips required to secure service, waiting time, frequency of bribe payments, amount of bribe, and
citizen perception of service quality. While the evidence indicated that program outcomes vary
between states, there was clear evidence related to service quality improvement in numerous states.
                                                   13
Improvement in service quality is a critical outcome of the policy matrix. See Annex 8 for a
summary of findings of the Impact Assessment. (The “Impact Assessment on e-Governance
Projects? dated 2008 was conducted by the Indian Institute of Management for the DeitY. A
synopsis of the assessment can be found at: http://deity.gov.in/content/impact-outcomes#AS68. The
DeitY is currently finalizing a more recent impact assessment and e-readiness study of the NeGP.
To our knowledge, these are the only comprehensive impact assessments which have been
conducted on the NeGP.)

53.     In overall terms, based upon the positive performance related to achievement of targets
for both end of series 2013-2014 and 2012-2013, and third party evidence of outcome achievement
in the impact evaluations, a Moderately Satisfactory rating seems appropriate.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.      The implementation of e-services at the state level appears to be resulting in cost savings
and efficiency improvement, and the village level focus of the NeGP attempts to ensure that the
poor benefit from the program. Numerous examples were provided in a workshop with NeGP
officials from Rajasthan, Assam, and Mizoram. A strong state example is the e-governance program
in Madhya Pradesh (MP), one of the low-income states.

         The MP government has implemented an e-procurement system for all government
          departments and state public service units. This system has engaged 90 departments and
          involved more than 38,812 online procurements totaling Rs. 7,645,600,000. The
          government of MP has documented the reduction in the number of procurement
          transactions, administrative processing, and other inefficiencies and leakages which were
          linked to manual processes often involving personal discretion. The system has improved
          transparency and governance processes, benefiting small business players.

         MP has also established Common Service Centers, called “MP Online? and “Lok Seva
          Kendra?, which are providing public services (related to social protection, pension, birth and
          caste, and others) and private financial services. CSCs aim to reduce costs of citizens
          associated with securing public services. These costs include transport costs as well as
          unofficial payments which may accompany service requests.

         A final example of MP’s e-governance program is the computerization of service delivery
          associated with the Food and Supplies Department. MP’s “e-Upaarjan? (computerization of
          wheat procurement) provides farmers with a number of services like procurement
          forecasting, real time alerts, and other information tailored to specific needs of farmers.
          This system has resulted in economic and social improvements to registered farmers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

55.     The NeGP has built significant capacity at the central and state levels of government to
coordinate and implement the e-governance initiative. The NeGP has created new organizations
and strengthened existing ones, at both central and state levels. The Apex Committees, both at the
central and state levels, have been strengthened to enhance their role in policy-making and cross-
government coordination required to make NeGP sustainable and successful. State e-Governance
Mission Teams (SeMTs) have been developed in all states, creating a capable and qualified group of
e-governance professionals in the public workforce. The National e-Governance Division (NeGD)
has been established to provide the program management of NeGP. In addition, the CIO program is
                                                   14
being implemented and aims to put in place a cadre of professionals who understand the use of IT
for governance reforms and transformation across a federal/ state government.

Other efforts are underway to expand e-governance capacity at all levels. Some of these initiatives
include:

         a National Skills Development Corporation which has developed a specially designed
          curriculum for training of government officials on IT,
         IT competency tests for civil service induction, and
         the establishment of an IT cadre in the civil services.

56.     Many states are developing sustainable institutions needed to improve service delivery
using electronic means. Evidence in larger and more advanced states, like Andhra Pradesh,
indicates that a number of these institutions are Public-Private Partnerships, designed to leverage
private sector skills and entrepreneurial capacity in order to create a technically-savvy, service-
oriented public sector

57.      Institutional strengthening has also resulted in the creation of e-governance teams in all
35 states and UTs. These teams are developing the IT infrastructure and change management
processes to improve efficiency and access associated with service delivery mechanisms, for sectors
and functions. The growth and strengthening of these institutions is likely to continue for another 10
years, as horizontal and vertical connectivity improves, and as each government program at the state
level undertakes a reform process associated with digital re-engineering. The NeGP has been a
critical part of creating this state-level institutional infrastructure.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

58.    The risk of not achieving the development outcomes of increased coordination and
outreach to citizens is moderate. Multiple factors contribute to this rating.

59.      There is substantial political commitment of the GoI to make NeGP implementation a
success. The $9 billion in federal funding provided for the program to date reflects the importance
of the NeGP in terms of government priorities. The likelihood of a major change in budgetary
support does not appear to be significant. (The NeGP budget supports policy development;
establishment of IT core infrastructure such as SWAN, NICNET, SDCs, etc.; establishment of
support infrastructure (including CSC, e-portal, e-district, and others); provision for technical
assistance to support state level implementation; research and development; human resource
development; training and change management, in particular in lagging states; and awareness,
assessment, monitoring and evaluation of the overall NeGP implementation and e-services delivery
programs.)

60.    The governance structures which have been established at the central and state levels
through the NeGP appear to be firmly rooted, and cannot be dismantled easily. Many states are
                                                 15
using sophisticated PPP structures to manage various elements of their NeGP. These are evolving to
have an extensive and deep-seeded presence in the service delivery landscape. The presence of the
PPPs creates new and additional stakeholders which will support ongoing NeGP efforts. These state
institutions are likely to continue to play a critical role in connecting the citizen with the state and in
overcoming state-specific obstacles for service delivery improvement.

61.     The Electronic Service Delivery (ESD) bill will provide an important legal umbrella for
the national delivery of e-services throughout the country. As is evident in the policy matrix, the
progress of this bill is promising, with most policy experts providing a positive outlook for passage
of the legislation in 2013. The Electronic Service Delivery bill will put in place more rigorous
measures to implement e-services, including establishment of a 6-month timeframe for all
departments to define a Citizens Charter which notifies citizens of services to be provided
electronically. An additional timeframe is provided which requires that all services are to be
provided electronically within 5 years. In sum, the ESD bill increases the requirements and
commitment of the Government of India to promote e-governance implementation.

62.    Nevertheless, Section F of the Program Document identified two key risk areas which
remain pertinent to achievement of outcomes:

         Actions agreed under Pillar II, particularly related to increased participation of users and
          service orientation of public officials, could have results below what was expected in initial
          program design, as citizen-centric service delivery has not yet been mainstreamed in the
          public service and the benefits are perceived only after a few years.

         NeGP’s decentralized implementation arrangements make it difficult for any one
          department, such as DeitY, to coordinate across such a wide range of central and state
          implementing agencies, contributing to the difficulty of MMP implementation, which
          remains one of the most important, but weakest, areas of NeGP progress. Annex 5 indicates
          that numerous MMPs are not yet operational, reflecting a continued lag in implementation.
          Comments provided to the Regional Operations Committee in February 2011 indicate that
          the 27 Mission Mode Projects were designed to be implemented from 2006-2014 yet, in
          2011, it was clear that the MMPs were behind schedule. Numerous program stakeholders
          confirmed that the delays with MMP implementation remain one of the largest challenges of
          the program.

63.      States are now faced with implementing at least five service delivery improvement
initiatives, adding to implementation complexity and risk. The wave of service delivery
improvement hitting India cannot be understated. Extensive coordination will be needed at central
and state levels to manage the integration of these efforts to ensure successful implementation.
Additional capacity will be needed, and systems related to intra-government and inter-governmental
coordination will require strengthening. Furthermore, the “change management? element of these
initiatives includes long-term behavior change components, increasing rick associated with
achieving outcomes.

64.      On balance, a rating of Moderate was deemed to be an appropriate rating for the level of
risk to achieving outcomes.

5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
                                                    16
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.      e-Delivery of Public Services was one of the first DPLs offered to the GoI for public sector
management and institutional reform. Following a six year SIL preparation engagement with GoI
for the e-Bharat program, the Bank leveraged its relationships, knowledge and expertise to help the
GoI design an e-governance investment centered on transforming the way ordinary citizens access
public services. During the SIL preparation, extensive and in-depth technical and advisory inputs
were provided by the Bank to DeitY. (See Annex 9). The e-Delivery of Public Services DPL, that
replaced the e-Bharat SIL, was prepared with an emphasis on governance reforms – addressing
issues in service delivery, process re-engineering and citizen participation in design to maximize
outcomes and benefits from NeGP. The Bank’s prior engagement through the SIL, and its strength
of relationships with the GoI, allowed the team to rapidly prepare and execute the DPL.

66.     In preparing the DPL, which contributed US$ 150 million to the GoI’s US$ 9 billion
investment in the National e-Governance Plan (NeGP), the Bank brought to the table valuable
technical assistance to identify policy reform areas, institutional arrangements and program
implementation modalities. These modalities were then employed by the GoI to implement the
broader NeGP program. DeitY indicated in a letter that the DPL preparation reflected a quality
preparation process which involved the development of the eight policy reform areas which became
the focus of assistance from the World Bank.

67.    The Bank made important contributions to the NeGP’s monitoring and evaluation system,
which provides timely information about various aspects of the program. The Bank team elevated
the importance of M&E, providing critical technical inputs to support the development of the
system. M&E became a key reform area in the policy matrix. (See Annex 5 for reports generated by
the M&E system.)

68.      The Bank engagement provided an opportunity for the Bank to participate in national
policy related to the NeGP. Given that the NeGP’s focus is on improving the access, efficiency and
quality of service delivery, it was important for the Bank to position itself so that it could contribute
to this national initiative. The engagement also created an opportunity for the Bank to learn from
India’s NeGP experiment and share relevant lessons with other countries which are modernizing
their service delivery systems.

69.     The Bank developed an in-depth options document for the Government of India to
determine the appropriate instrument for engagement. A document titled “Choice of Bank
Instrument: Response to GoI’s Request for Support to India’s National e-Governance Plan? was
prepared to serve as a basis for Government decision-making and instrument selection associated
with this operation. This document provided a thorough basis for the government’s decision to
secure Bank financing through a DPL. While most relevant government officials agreed that a DPL
was the appropriate instrument for support, a discussion at DEA in January 2013 indicated that
certain GoI senior officials continued to have questions about the effectiveness of development
impact associated with the DPL instrument.

70.       There were limitations with the project design process.

         The brief preparation period may not have allowed enough time to vet questions and
          concerns about the suitability of the DPL instrument.

         While the Bank played an important convening role in terms of framing central e-
          governance policy, additional efforts could have been made to enhance central coordination
                                                   17
          of state implementation activities related to the numerous service delivery improvement
          initiatives. Integration of these efforts remains a challenge.

         Citizen feedback mechanisms could have been used to strengthen the outcome measurement
          methodology. Citizen feedback is an important means of measuring whether service access,
          efficiency and quality are being improved, yet this approach was not included in the policy
          matrix.

71.     On balance, while improvement could have been made during the entry process, the
overall performance of the Bank at Entry was relatively positive, and merits a rating of
Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.     The Bank’s supervision team managed a highly complex supervisory environment in a
manner which paved the way for long-term Bank e-governance engagement in low-income states.
The combination of SBL restrictions, late disbursement, and DPL II cancellation created a
challenging supervisory climate from the start. The Bank team should be credited with managing
through these difficulties in a manner which resulted in a strategic shift from central level support to
engagement in low-income states, a key element of the new Country Partnership Strategy.

73.     While effort was made to retain DPL II, eventually the team refocused on substantive
objectives, laying the foundation for Bank engagements in service delivery reform in Assam,
Mizoram, and Madhya Pradesh. Many low-income states needed technical advice and guidance to
implement NeGP, along with a range of other service delivery improvement efforts (such as RTPS,
Performance Management, Grievance Redress, and RTI). To this end, supervision staff conducted 7
missions to low-income states of Assam, Tripura, Bihar, and Mizoram during the first half of 2012.
These missions, and related consultations, resulted in the current e-Governance in the Northeast
NLTA, which is providing an analytical basis for a $49 million investment lending request in
Assam. Madhya Pradesh has also submitted a request for NLTA tied to a $55 million investment
loan and Mizoram has submitted a $13 million investment lending request which is under review by
DEA.

74.      A January 2012 supervision mission provided a candid assessment of progress made in
meeting Phase 2 prior actions, as well as the challenges encountered during the implementation
of the policy reforms. A detailed, full-team supervision was undertaken in January, 2012 (Jan 16-
27, 2012) which included visits to multiple states. As part of the supervision, each policy area was
reviewed in detail for the current status, and recommendations were provided for corrective actions.
The Bank mission identified the problems of implementation at state level and need for additional
support. The supervisory mission concluded that two out of eight policy actions required additional
attention: (i) facilitation of increased participation of users in design and evaluation of e-governance
projects, and (ii) implementation of the process re-engineering guidelines and common platforms for
e-governance projects. The mission was conducted at the appropriate six-month mark of the period
of effectiveness.

75.    Numerous policy inputs and technical supports were provided to the Government of India
during DPL effectiveness and many of these were incorporated into the operations of the NeGP.
Of the 29 policy and technical inputs, 13 were provided during the DPL period of effectiveness;
many played a valuable role in developing the NeGP. DeitY looked to the Bank as a valued
development partner, seeking policy advice and technical support to develop the program for
                                                  18
national implementation. One of the project TTLs played a critical support role to the client,
providing ad hoc advice as needed. The policy inputs, which supported directly the DPL objectives,
are listed below.

       Policy Input/Support                                              Reform Area Supported
  1    WB's Policy Notes - on all the key policy areas                   All Reform Areas #1.1 - #2.5
  2    Bank's Note on suggestions for ESD Bill                           Reform Area #2.4
  3    Framework for Citizens Engagement                                 Reform Area #2.2
  4    Inputs on NeGP M&E Framework                                      Reform Area #1.3
  5    WB's workshop on m-Governance; first Draft on Mobile Governance   Reform Area #2.1
  6    Bank's review comments on the Capacity Building Scheme            Reform Area #2.3
  7    Communication and Awareness Strategy                              Reform Area # 2.2
  8    Results Framework                                                 All Reform Areas #1.1 – 2.5
  9    Review note on Standards for e-Government                         Reform Area#1.2
  10   South -South e-Gov knowledge sharing                              All Reform Areas #1.1 – 2.5
  11   e-Panchayati Raj initiative                                       All Reform Areas #1.1 – 2.5
  12   Discussions on the National IT Policy                             All Reform Areas #1.1 – 2.5
  13   Meetings on UID / Aadhaar                                         All Reform Areas #1.1 – 2.5

76.     Supervision was affected by broader financial challenges related to the Government of
India’s portfolio with the World Bank, namely the possibility of reaching the Single Borrower
Limit. The SBL issue forced the supervisory dialogue into a concentrated discussion about
continuation of DPL II, diminishing Bank attention to more substantive e-governance concerns.
While the lack of substantive focus on DPL objectives was weak in this period, it is substantially
explained by the complexities of the SBL pressures.

77.     While the team made notable effort to supervise the DPL in this challenging environment,
the supervision could have been more proactive. Without the complexities of SBL pressures, a
number of actions could have been taken to enhance program outcomes. They include: (i)
convening DeitY and government ministries to advance MMP implementation and integration of
service delivery improvement, (ii) supporting DeitY in the development of a targeted strategy for
NeGP advancement in low-income states; and (iii) institutionalizing a system for tracking and
reporting progress in achieving DPL targets and outcomes. In addition, while not required, an ISR
might have provided additional avenues to engage with Government during this challenging time.

78.     The operational environment was further challenged by staffing changes. Staffing
changes, which are common procedures at the Bank, added to the complexity of remaining focused
on the e-governance content of the DPL.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     Given that the Quality at Entry is Moderately Satisfactory and the Quality of Supervision
is Moderately Satisfactory, the overall rating for the Bank’s Performance is Moderately
Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                                     19
80.      Through the execution of the NeGP, the Government of India has set a benchmark for
other similarly large, diverse and populous emerging central governments seeking to deliver
decentralized public services to citizens in the digital era of governance. The GoI has marshaled
unprecedented financial and institutional resources totaling $9 billion to scale up and implement the
NeGP across the sub-continent, putting in place a critical enabling environment for rolling out
reforms. Taking into account the additional $3.6 billion effort of the Government to establish
broadband connectivity to 250,000 villages, the overall investment in creating a citizen-centered
service delivery system exceeds $12.6 billion. The India experience, particularly related to NeGP
governance arrangements, would be valuable to share with other countries, through knowledge
exchanges and lessons learned. Due to the compelling progress of the NeGP, members of the ICR
Team have already shared this experience with their respective counterparts in Indonesia, Pakistan,
and Nepal. The NeGP governance structures ensure a remarkable level of quality and guidance to the
project, as they are staffed by seasoned and knowledgeable officers.

81.     Acting together, a host of central and local government institutions have given wings to a
fledgling national e-governance system, enabling a beneficial environment for achieving the
outcome of citizen centered e-delivery of public services. Numerous central and state entities have
been created or expanded to support the commitment to achieve a citizen-centered service delivery
system. With the Prime Minister’s office in the lead, APEX Committees, High Powered Committees,
and Project Standing Committees all support a central decision-making structure which oversees
policy for the initiative. The Planning Commission allocates funds for NeGP through Plan and Non-
plan budgetary provisions. The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances
(DAR&PG) is responsible for process re-engineering, change management and promoting initiatives
for human resource development, as well as training and awareness building. Line
ministries/departments have taken ownership of the MMP, conceptualizing and implementing the
project. At the state level, the APEX structure has also been replicated, headed by the Chief
Secretary. SeMTs have been created to provide tech-savvy skills and capacity to implementation.
PPP partners and other stakeholders are playing a key role in ensuring that the NeGP model benefits
from private sector entrepreneurialism and sustainability.

82.      Nevertheless, the success of the NeGP lies in integrating service delivery improvement
initiatives across the country and in quickly bringing MMPs online. Integration to other reform
initiatives such as RTI, RTPS, Grievance Redress, and Results Framework Documents will be a
critical part of establishing an effective citizen centered e-delivery of public services. While efforts
have been made to integrate NeGP with Grievance Redress and RTI, the integration effort needs
enforcement and coordination at the state level. The central government is in a key position to
provide guidance and support for this integration, but this would require a well-coordinated approach
crossing multiple departments and functions, and an ambitious engagement across 35 states and UTs.
In addition, MMP implementation continues to lag, requiring a reenergized effort to determine what
is needed to make progress in this important area. On its own, the implementing agency (DeitY)
cannot convene and coordinate institutions at such levels to resolve issues in a timely manner as the
program matures.




                                                  20
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

83.     The implementing agency’s performance is rated as Satisfactory. DeitY has played a
consistent and critical role as an enabler of change and in pressing for completion of actions in the
DPL policy matrix. To reach its targets, DeitY deployed dedicated and competent staff to design,
develop and accelerate the implementation of NeGP at the central level (including NeGD and NeGP
consultants from the private sector) and the state level (SeMT).

84.      Elevated commitment and the capacity of DeitY (at the center) and SeMT (at the state)
provided much needed impetus for service delivery transformation across the Indian
subcontinent. Although these institutions are relatively new, having been in existence a little over
five years, they have introduced a new wave of talent and skills to the public sector across India.
SeMTs are typically staffed by “tech savvy? and reform-minded professionals who are adept at
managing the complexities of IT and governance reform. DeitY and the SeMTs have stepped up to
the enormous challenge of modernizing government processes and they are doing so in a manner
which puts citizens at the heart of service delivery. Over the next ten years, these institutions are
likely to play a critical role in supply side efforts to ensure that the government meets citizen needs.

85.     DeitY has established an adequate system for NeGP Monitoring and Evaluation (M/E).
This system monitors the implementation progress of State Data Centers, State Wide area Networks,
Common Service Centers, National Service Delivery Gateway, E-District and Capacity Building at
the State Level. Also, the system tracks the progress of MMP implementation at the central, state,
and integrated levels (see Annex 5). While the ICR Team does not have information about whether
the M&E reports have improved decision-making by the central government or DeitY, the reporting
has provided DeitY with comprehensive and beneficial information about the status of NeGP
implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.      Borrower’s performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The rating reflects: (i) a
relatively good performance of the GoI in providing a supportive enabling environment and
resources to enhance NeGP policy and implementation, and (ii) a positive performance of DeitY to
ensure progress of DPL objectives, despite a slow disbursement of funds.

6.      Lessons Learned

87.     India’s NeGP is a useful governance-oriented model for countries modernizing their
service delivery processes. The citizen-centered approach of the NeGP is a vibrant and relevant
model for countries or sub-national governments which are designing or implementing ICT reform
programs. The approach is particularly valuable for governments also aiming to improve
transparency and accountability and reduce corruption. India’s approach goes far beyond a narrow
ICT orientation by placing citizen access and service delivery efficiency at the heart of the reform.
This governance-oriented approach to ICT modernization is a strong model to share with other
countries. In fact, almost all members of the ICR Team were so impressed by India’s NeGP that
they have shared the model with other country counterparts in Indonesia, Pakistan, and Nepal.

88.     An innovative and creative approach is needed for engaging with a sophisticated client
like the central Government of India. Traditional Bank instruments may not work well with a
                                                  21
highly advanced client which is managing enormous policy and programmatic complexity.
Throughout the eight year engagement related to this DPL, there is evidence that all Bank
instruments (SIL, DPL, and TA) were of limited interest to the central Government of India. One
explanation for the extensive volatility of the 8-year engagement is the limited compatibility
between Bank instruments and the complexity of the GoI operating environment. Some
consideration should be given to alternative, more creative approaches and instruments for engaging
with the central Government of India, particularly in sectors which evidence volatility with
engagements.

89.      Low-income state engagement is well-aligned with the Bank’s poverty and shared
prosperity mission; in the area of e-governance, it is also a strategy which reflects a “good fit?
between client needs and the Bank’s traditional products and services. The 8-year volatility
associated with SIL and DPL engagements with the central GoI have led the Bank to shift its e-
governance strategy to low-income states – a strategy which seems to be working given the
smoothness in development of the e-Governance in the Northeast NLTA and the progression of
multiple financing requests from Assam, Mizoram, and Madhya Pradesh. This new strategy
recognizes the evident compatibility between the needs and practices of low-income state clients and
traditional Bank practices and products.

90.     Engagement with the Government is most beneficial when it remains focused on
substance and flexibility. In the context of this DPL, the Bank’s dialogue with Government was
affected by SBL pressures, diminishing focus on the substance of the governance program. This
resulted in a lost opportunity to leverage fully the one year DPL. Eventually, the Bank re-engaged
appropriately with Government, shifting its governance strategy to one characterized by low-income
state implementation. The Bank’s current e-governance engagements in low-income states reflect
the benefits of remaining focused on substance and being adaptable in terms of strategy.

91.      Due to the critical linkage between governance and citizens (in particular poor and
marginalized citizens), governance projects should adopt a standard practice of using outcome
indicators which are based on user/citizen feedback mechanisms to gauge progress. Design of
strong outcome indicators for a DPL is challenging because of the long-term, conceptual nature of
outcomes. Design of central level indicators is also complicated by long results chains and time
lags. Nevertheless, in service delivery projects, citizens and users are often the best gauge of
progress. E-governance projects which utilize ICT as a means of implementing reforms should be in
the forefront of showcasing low-cost accessible technology usage to measure user satisfaction
related to service delivery.

92.    A structured and strategic approach to risk management should be considered when
programmatic interruption is a significant possibility. In the case of the DPL, the evident risk of
program interruption could have been managed in a more comprehensive, timely, and strategic
manner by both the project team and the CMU. In such cases, an intensive supervision process
could be established to maintain focus on program content, to systematize dialogue with
Government, and to promote flexibility as the engagement evolves.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

93.    Comments received from DeitY. An updated policy matrix, which reflects reform area
performance as of June 2012, and a narrative update for each reform area has been provided by
DeitY. This information is included in Annex 10. No changes have been made to these documents.

                                                22
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           23
      Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Ranjana Mukherjee         Senior Public Sector Specialist          SASGP   TTL
Shashank Ojha             Senior e-Government Specialist           TWICT   Co-TTL
Mohan Gopalakrishnan      Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM   Team Member
Muthukumara Mani          Senior Environmental Economist           SASDI   Team Member
Tenzin Norbhu             Senior ICT Policy Specialist             TWICT   Team Member
Ananya Basu               Senior Economist                         SASEP   Team Member
Ulrich Bartsch            Senior Economist                         SASEP   Team Member
Vikram Raghavan           Senior Counsel                           LEGES   Team Member
Preeti Arora              Senior Economist                         SARDE   Team Member
Guy Janssen               Consultant                               SASGP   Team Member
Eduardo Talero            Consultant                               SASGP   Team Member
Muhammad Shafiq           Program Assistant                        SASGP   Team Member
Sapna John                Program Assistant                        SASGP   Team Member


Supervision
Junghun Cho               Senior Public Sector Specialist          SASGP   TTL
Shashank Ojha             Senior e-Government Specialist           TWICT   Co-TTL
Tenzin Norbhu             Senior ICT Policy Specialist             TWICT   Team Member
Guy Janssen               Consultant                               SASGP   Team Member
Eduardo Talero            Consultant                               SASGP   Team Member
Sapna John                Program Assistant                        SASGP   Team Member



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                         USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                       55.08                       397.67

Supervision/ICR                                  47.34                     296.17

                          Total:              102.42                       693.84




                                            24
    Annex 2: Examples of State Government MMPs

STATE MMPS
ANDHRA PRADESH
    National Land Record Management Program
    Road Transport Authority
    Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System
    Treasury
    Municipality
    E-District
    Commercial Taxes
    Gram Panchayat
    Employment Exchange
RAJASTHAN
 E-District
 E-Job Application
 E-Mitra
 E-Procurement
 Commercial Taxes
 Municipality
 National Land Record Management Program
 Registration and Stamps
 Treasury
 Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System
 Road Transport
 Arogya Online
 E-Sugam
 E-Sanchar
 RSRTC – online web based ticket
 LITES – Monitoring of Government Court Cases
MADHYA PRADESH
 E-District
 E-Court
 MP Online
 E-Procurement/Tender
 Land record
 E-Upaarjan
 Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System
 E-Treasury
 E-Jan Sunvai and E-Shiksha
 E-Governance and Service Delivery
 E-Correspondence and Management System




                           25
                                                                                               Annex 3: Policy Matrix
                                                             DPL 2 Supported                                                                                                                                     End-of-Series
                              DPL 1 Supported                  Reforms and                                                                                                                                       Outcome and
                                                                                                                   Baseline 2009 –          Status 2010 -         Target 2012 –           Achievement or
   Reform Area                 Reforms (Prior               Indicative Triggers               Indicator                                                                                                         Indicator 2013
                                                                                                                        2010                    2011                  2013                    Status
                             Actions are bolded)                 (2012/13)                                                                                                                                          - 2014

                                                                                          Pillar I. Higher emphasis on coordination
1.1 Strengthen state       The government has             DIT establishes project       Number of e-           200 e-services at   500 e-services               1000 services (90       1776 e-services at      Outcome:
level institutions in      developed a                    development support           services at            state level (0 e-   (0 services in               e-services in less      state level and         Gap between
e-governance               comprehensive policy           fund and Expert Cell          implementation         services in less    less advanced                advanced states)        225 e-services          “leading and
                           for institutional              on PPPs for e-                stage at state level   advanced states)    states) (56 e-               (130 e-services         through PPP             “less
                           strengthening                  governance projects.          (including number      (11 e-services      services through             through PPP             mode                    advanced?
                           program and has                                              of e-services under    through PPP         PPP mode)                    mode)                                           states reduced1
                           commenced its                  The government has            implementation in      mode)
                           implementation by              approved a policy for         less advanced states                                                                                                    Indicator:
                           assisting state                PPPs in e-governance          and e-services in                                                                                                       1500 e-
                           governments in                 projects and issued           PPP mode at                                                                                                             services (180
                           preparing and                  templates for model           implementations                                                                                                         e-services in
                           implementing e-                concession                    stage)                                                                                                                  less advanced
                           governance projects.           agreements                                                                                                                                            states) (227 e-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                services
                           Guidelines for PPPs in                                                                                                                                                               through PPP
                           e-governance projects                                                                                                                                                                mode)
                           drafted and circulated
                           for comments

1.2 Development of         Government has                 Government has                Number of e-              0 e-services from       0 e-services          75 e-services           143 e-services          Outcome:
technical standards        adopted a policy for           adopted technology            services offered          certified systems       from certified        from certified          from certified          Raised
for e-governance           the use of open                standards including           through systems                                   systems               systems                 systems                 reliability and
                           standards in e-                for interoperability          certified compliant                                                                                                     interoperability
                           governance.                    and security.                 with standards                                                                                                          of government
                                                                                                                                                                                                                systems as a
                           In consultation with           Government has                                                                                                                                        result of
                           relevant stakeholders,         adopted a framework                                                                                                                                   certified
                           the government is              for                                                                                                                                                   compliance
                           developing                     certifying systems’                                                                                                                                   with technical
                           appropriate technical          compliance with                                                                                                                                       standards for e-



           1
               At the time of the creation of the Policy matrix, the term "less advance states" was used. At the time of the ICR, both the Government of India and the Bank use the term "low-income states".




                                                                                                                26
                                                    DPL 2 Supported                                                                                                             End-of-Series
                         DPL 1 Supported              Reforms and                                                                                                               Outcome and
                                                                                                   Baseline 2009 –       Status 2010 -    Target 2012 –    Achievement or
   Reform Area            Reforms (Prior           Indicative Triggers          Indicator                                                                                      Indicator 2013
                                                                                                        2010                 2011             2013             Status
                        Actions are bolded)             (2012/13)                                                                                                                  - 2014

                       standards to implement     approved technical                                                                                                           governance.
                       the above-mentioned        standards.
                       policy                                                                                                                                                  Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                                               150 e-services
                                                                                                                                                                               from certified
                                                                                                                                                                               systems.
1.3 Improve inter      Inter-ministerial          The government has       Number of e-           0 e-services         0 e-services      124 e-services   246 e-services       Outcome:
agency coordination    committee of senior        begun utilizing the      services from          monitored            monitored         monitored        monitored            Enhanced
and monitoring e-      officials has adopted a    framework to improve     projects with                                                                                       decision
governance             comprehensive              monitoring and           updated information                                                                                 making as a
                       framework for              coordination of e-       in the Project                                                                                      result of
                       monitoring the             governance               Monitoring                                                                                          systematic
                       implementation of the                               Information System                                                                                  monitoring
                       National e-
                       Governance Plan                                                                                                                                         Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                                               250 e-services
                                                                                                                                                                               monitored.
                                                                             Pillar II. Increased reach out to citizens
2.1 Improve access     The Telecom                The government has       Number of              8.77 million (end     9.47 million     15 million       15.08 million        Outcome:
to services by using   Regulatory Authority of    approved the             broadband              March 2010)           (end of June     broadband        broadband            Broadband-
the mobile platform    India has submitted        National Broadband       connections                                  2010)            connections      subscription (Sept   enabled service
while increasing the   recommendations on         Plan to establish                                                                                       2012)                access points
pace of internet       National Broadband         broadband in all                                                                                                             available in all
penetration            Plan to the government     panchayats                                                                                                                   panchayats and
                                                                                                                                                                               mobile
                       The government has                                                                                                                                      platform used
                       formulated a policy to     The government has                                                                                                           for effective
                       facilitate setting-up of   adopted a policy to      Number of Service      80,000               90,000            125,000          95,649 Common        delivery of e-
                       150,000 additional         facilitate the setting   Access Points                                                                  Services Center      services
                       broadband-enabled          up of additional                                                                                        (CSC) rolled out
                       service access points in   150,000 broadband-                                                                                      with 80,733          Indicator:
                       panchayats                 enabled service                                                                                         connected CSCs       40 million
                                                  access points in                                                                                        (Sept 2012)          broadband-
                                                  panchayats                                                                                                                   enabled
                                                                                                                                                                               connections
                                                                                                                                                                               nationwide
                       The Government has         The government has




                                                                                                 27
                                                    DPL 2 Supported                                                                                                             End-of-Series
                        DPL 1 Supported               Reforms and                                                                                                               Outcome and
                                                                                                  Baseline 2009 –    Status 2010 -     Target 2012 –     Achievement or
   Reform Area           Reforms (Prior            Indicative Triggers           Indicator                                                                                     Indicator 2013
                                                                                                       2010              2011              2013              Status
                       Actions are bolded)              (2012/13)                                                                                                                  - 2014

                      adopted a policy            adopted a policy for
                      framework for the           delivery of services on   Number of services    0 services on     25 service on     50 services on    113 e-services         250,000
                      delivery of basic           the mobile platform       delivered using       mobile platform   mobile platform   mobile platform   operational under      broadband-
                      financial services                                    mobile platform                                                             the PULL               enabled
                      using mobile phones                                                                                                               Services; 126          service access
                                                                                                                                                        departments            points
                                                                                                                                                        integrated and their   established in
                                                                                                                                                        services               panchayats
                                                                                                                                                        operational under
                                                                                                                                                        the PUSH SMS           100 services
                                                                                                                                                        channel                are delivered
                                                                                                                                                                               using the
                                                                                                                                                                               mobile
                                                                                                                                                                               platform
2.2 Facilitate        Government has              The government has        Number of e-          0 e-services      6 e-services      100 e-services    50 services under 5    Outcome:
increased             strengthened its e-         adopted                   services that have                                                          projects would         Services
participation of      governance impact           administrative            incorporated user                                                           have incorporated      improved in
users in design and   assessment strategy         guidelines that           participation in                                                            user participation     response to
evaluation of e-      and has begun its           incorporate               design and impact                                                           in design and          users’ feedback
governance projects   implementation              comprehensive             assessments                                                                 impact assessment
                                                  stakeholder                                                                                           in the financial       Indicator:
                      The government has          involvement and                                                                                       year                   200 e-services
                      circulated guidelines for   performance
                      social audit for e-         measurement.
                      governance projects to
                      central government
                      ministries/ departments,
                      state governments, and
                      DIT
2.3 Improve service   The government has          The government has        Number of e-          8 e-services      83 e-services     380 e-services    246 e-services         Outcome:
orientation of        finalized process re-       begun project level       services delivered                                                          delivered through      Many
government            engineering guidelines,     implementation of         through re-                                                                 re-engineered          government
processes and         and identified common       the process re-           engineered                                                                  process; 200 more      processes re-
officials             platforms and               engineering               processes                                                                   e-services to be       engineered,
                      components for              guidelines and                                                                                        accomplished by        and appointed
                      enabling uniformity in      common platforms                                                                                      the end of the FY      and elected
                      delivery of public          and components.                                                                                                              officials’




                                                                                                 28
                                              DPL 2 Supported                                                                                                               End-of-Series
                    DPL 1 Supported             Reforms and                                                                                                                 Outcome and
                                                                                            Baseline 2009 –     Status 2010 -     Target 2012 –      Achievement or
   Reform Area       Reforms (Prior          Indicative Triggers         Indicator                                                                                         Indicator 2013
                                                                                                 2010               2011              2013               Status
                   Actions are bolded)            (2012/13)                                                                                                                    - 2014

                  services.                                                                                                                                                behavior
                                                                                                                                                                           oriented
                                                                                                                                                                           towards service
                                                                                                                                                                           delivery.

                                                                                                                                                                           Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                    Number of states       752 e-services
                  The government has        Empowered                                                                                               participated in the
                  developed and begun       committee has           Number of state         None               3 States          10 states          Specialized            Outcome:
                  implementation of a       approved an e-          whose officials have                                                            Training on e-         Users can be
                  reorientation program     governance leadership   completed                                                                       Governance             verified by
                  for state government      program for State       reorientation or                                                                program is 20          service
                  policy makers and         Government and          leadership program                                                                                     delivery
                  officials in e-           Central Government                                                                                                             systems
                  governance                CIOs                                                                                                                           anywhere and
                                                                                                                                                                           anytime

                                                                                                                                                                           Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                                           35 States/UTs
2.4 E-services    Pursuant to Apex          A draft ESD Bill has    Stages toward           Second             Apex              A draft ESD Bill   EDS Bill was
Delivery Law      Committee’s               been formulated and     approval of ESD         Administrative     Committee of      has been           introduced in the
                  instructions, the DIT     submitted to the        Bill                    Reform             NeGP approves     formulated and     Lok Sabha on 27th
                  has begun formulating a   Union Cabinet                                   Commission         preparation of    submitted to the   December 2011.
                  draft ESD Bill and                                                        recommends         legal framework   Union Cabinet      The Bill was
                  undertaken preliminary                                                    developing full    and tasks DIT                        referred to the
                  consultations with                                                        legal framework    with this                            Parliament
                  stakeholders                                                              for e-governance   responsibility                       Standing
                                                                                                                                                    Committee on IT
                                                                                                                                                    on 5th January
                                                                                                                                                    2012. The
                                                                                                                                                    Committee has
                                                                                                                                                    tabled its Report to
                                                                                                                                                    Lok Shaba (laid in
                                                                                                                                                    Rajya Sabha) on
                                                                                                                                                    30th August 2012
2.5 Uniform and   The government has        Government has begun    Number of e-            None               13 e-services     25 e-services      18 services            Outcome:
predictable       issued guidelines for     verifying users of e-   services verifying                                                                                     Users can be




                                                                                           29
                                                  DPL 2 Supported                                                                                               End-of-Series
                       DPL 1 Supported              Reforms and                                                                                                 Outcome and
                                                                                            Baseline 2009 –   Status 2010 -   Target 2012 –   Achievement or
   Reform Area          Reforms (Prior           Indicative Triggers           Indicator                                                                       Indicator 2013
                                                                                                 2010             2011            2013            Status
                      Actions are bolded)             (2012/13)                                                                                                    - 2014

verification of e-   use of digital signature   services               users                                                                                   verified by
service users        in e-governance                                                                                                                           service
                                                                                                                                                               delivery
                                                                                                                                                               systems
                                                                                                                                                               anywhere and
                                                                                                                                                               anytime

                                                                                                                                                               Indicator:
                                                                                                                                                               50 e-services
                                                                                                                                                               are verifying
                                                                                                                                                               users.




                                                                                           30
                           Annex 4: Single Tranche DPL – Prior Actions/Conditions and Status
                                                    (1st Operation)

Reform Area                   Prior Actions/Conditions                                               Status
Reform Area #1.1             The government has developed      The Government has developed a comprehensive policy for institutional
Strengthen state level       a comprehensive policy for        strengthening program. As part of the initiative, three core areas have been
institutions in e-           institutional strengthening       addressed:
governance                   program and has commenced              Establishment of an Institutional Framework for State Level Strategic
                             its implementation by assisting         decision- making including setting-up of State e-Governance Mission Teams
                             state governments in preparing          (SeMT)
                             and implementing e-                    Specialized Training Orientation Program for SeMTs and decision makers
                             governance projects                    Establishment of a Central Capacity Building Management Cell for
                                                                     coordination and implementation of the Capacity Building Scheme
Reform Area #1.2             Government has adopted a          Policy on Open Standards in e-governance has been adopted
Development of               policy for the use of open
technical standards for      standards in e-governance
e-governance
Reform Area #1.3             Inter-ministerial committee of    The Government has begun utilizing the M&E framework to improve monitoring
Improve Inter-agency         senior officials has adopted a    and coordination of e-governance. This is being done through the following
coordination and             comprehensive framework for       initiatives:
monitoring of e-             monitoring the implementation          Program Management Information System (PMIS);
governance                   of the National e-Governance           Monthly Progress Report; and
                             Plan                                   Prime Minister Appointed Expert Group on NeGP
Reform Area #2.1             The Government has adopted a      A Framework for Mobile Governance (http://deity.gov.in/content/framework-
Improve access to            policy framework for the          mobile-governance) has been developed and notified in the Gazette of India to
services by using            delivery of basic financial       facilitate use of the reach of mobile phones and related mobile-applications for
mobile platforms and         services using mobile phones      easier and anytime access to public services, especially in rural areas
increasing the pace of
internet penetration
Reform Area #2.2             Government has strengthened       DeitY has commissioned impact assessment studies of nearly 50 mature e-
Facilitate increased         its e-governance impact           Governance projects. These studies underscore the importance of conducting
participation of users in    assessment strategy and has       baseline surveys of users of the existing system before conceptualising a new
design and evaluation        begun its implementation          system to replace it. The impact is assessed on the following parameters:
of e-governance                                                     Service Outreach
projects                                                            Cost of Accessing the Service
                                                                    Quality of service rendered; and
                                                                    Overall impact on governance
Reform Area #2.3             The government has developed      Reorientation for State Government Policy Makers and Officials in e-governance:
Improve service              and begun implementation of a          Chief Information Officer (CIO) training program for State Governments and
orientation of               reorientation program for state         Central Government ministries and departments’ e-Governance champions -
government processes         government policy makers and            Two Pilot batches with 46 programmes completed and a National roll out
and officials                officials in e-governance               with 8 batches has been proposed.
                                                                    A roadmap for future capacity building scheme has been initiated
                                                                    HR Policy: Prime Minister’s Committee on NeGP approved the preparation
                                                                     of an HR Policy for taking NeGP forward which could become a part of the
                                                                     NeGP
Reform Area #2.5             The government has issued         DeitY has conceptualized the “e-Pramaan: Framework for e-Authentication? that
Uniform and                  guidelines for use of digital     is intended to serve as the guiding document for all central and state ministries and
predictable verification     signature in e-governance         departments for implementing an appropriate authentication model for delivery of
of e-service users                                             their services while maintaining uniformity and consistency across various
                                                               authentication mechanisms




                                                                        31
                            Annex 4: Single Tranche DPL – Triggers and Status (2nd Operation)

Reform Area                   Prior Actions/Conditions                                               Status
Reform Area #1.1             The government has approved        The government has issued a PPP policy in e-governance project. The policy has
Strengthen state level       a policy for PPPs in e-            been approved. Templates for model concession agreements have also been issued
institutions in e-           governance projects and issued     and are available on the DeitY website.
governance                   templates for model concession
                             agreements
Reform Area #1.2             Government has adopted             Policy on interoperability and security in e-governance is in DeitY’s Action Plan
Development of               technology standards including     which is in the process of being adopted.
technical standards for      for interoperability and
e-governance                 security.
Reform Area #2.1             The government has approved        The National Telecom Policy 2012 was issued in 2012 which promotes broadband
Improve access to            the National Broadband Plan to     connectivity to all panchayats by 2014 and to all villages and habitations by 2020.
services by using            establish broadband in all
mobile platforms and         panchayats                         In addition, the Prime Minister’s office has set up a $3.6 billion US project to
increasing the pace of                                          provide broadband connectivity to 250,000 villages.
internet penetration         The government has adopted a
                             policy to facilitate the setting
                             up of additional 150,000
                             broadband-enabled service
                             access points in panchayats
Reform Area #2.2             The government has adopted         The government has adopted administrative guidelines that incorporate
Facilitate increased         administrative guidelines that     comprehensive stakeholder involvement and performance measurement. These
participation of users in    incorporate comprehensive          guidelines have been issued and are available on DeitY’s website.
design and evaluation        stakeholder involvement and
of e-governance              performance measurement.
projects
Reform Area #2.3             The government has begun           The government has issued BPR It has been started and been included in the
Improve service              project level implementation of    operational Guidelines, and is under implementation.
orientation of               the process re-engineering
government processes         guidelines and common
and officials                platforms and components.

Reform Area #2.4 E-          A draft ESD Bill has been          The bill has been approved by the Cabinet and has gone to Parliament for
service Delivery Law         formulated and submitted to        discussion and passage. It is currently under revision in Parliament.
                             the Union Cabinet




                                                                         32
Annex 5: NeGP Monitoring Reports




               33
                                                                                                       Evaluation Table




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Land Records (Ph-I)
                                                                           Immigration & Visa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Commercial Taxes
                                                                           Central Excise &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e-District (Pilot)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Road Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e-Procurement
                                                                                                                                         e-Office (Pilot)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Police CCTNS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e-Municipality
                                                                                                                                                                    e-Trade (EDI)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e-Panchayat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Employment
                                                              Income Tax




                                                                                                                                                                                                  India Portal


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e-Biz(Pilot)
                                                                                                                                          India Post




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Agriculture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Treasuries




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Exchange
                                                                           Insurance
                                                                           Passport,




                                                                           Pensions




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NLRMP
                                                                                                                                                                    e-Courts
                                                              MCA 21



                                                                           Banking




                                                                                                                                                                                                  NSDG
                                                                           NPR
                                                                           UID
                        MMPs ---->
                     Evaluation Criteria                                                          Central                                                                               Integrated                                                                                                                  State
       1 Conformity
          Stake hol der Consul tati on
          Servi ces &SL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NR
          BPR                                                                                                                                                                                     NR NR
          Negp Gui del i nes (Dedi cated Project Team,
          Strategi c Control , Busi ness Conti nui ty etc.)                                                                                                                                                                                                NR                                                                                                                          NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NA
          Integrati on, Scope
          Busi ness Model                                                                              NR                               NR NR                                                                                                                          NR NR                                        NR                                                                                       NR NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Adequate information is not avalable - NR
          Conti nous enhancement                                                                  NR        NR NR NR                                                       NR                                                                                                                                       NR                                                                 NR NR
          Common Infrastucture                                NA NA NA                            NA NA NR NR NA NA                                                 NA                            NA NR                         NA                                                                                                                                                     NR NR




                                                                            Industry Initiative
                                                                            Industry Initiative
       2 Timelines
         Mi l estone pl anni ng & Moni tori ng                                                                                                                      NR
          Physi cal Targets                                                                                                                                         NR                                                                                                                                              NR
          Fi nanci al Targets                                                                                          NR               NR                          NR                                                                                                                                              NR                                                                                       NR

       3 Operations
          Services
          %age onl i ne




                                                                                                            Not Operational - NR

                                                                                                                                        Not Operational - NR




                                                                                                                                                                           Not Operational - NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Not Operational - NR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Not Operational - NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Not Operational - NR
          Coverage/Accessi bi l i ty




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Reports not received
          Off-take
                                                                                                                        NA
          Sati sfacti on Index                                                                                                     NR                               NR                                  NA                                                             NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NA
          Feedback Mechanism                                                                                                                                                                            NA                                                             NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NR
          Extent of Transformation                                                                                                                             NR
          Interoperability                                                                        NR NR NR                         NR                                                                                                                                  NR

          Sustainability                                                                          NR NR NR                         NR                          NR                                 NR                                                                   NR                          NR


                              Overall                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NR

                                                                   Post Implementation                                                  Implementation                                                           Design & Development                                                                               NR Not Rated
                              Legend
                                                                   A - Good                                                             B - Satisfactory                                                         Needs Attention                                                                                    NA Not Applicable


*Three new MMPs (PDS, Health and Education) and Land Records (NLRMP) have not been categorized.
** Core Infrastructure Projects (SDC, SWAN and CSC) have not been categorized.




                                                                                                                                        34
MMP Name                                                                                                                                            Central MMP
                                                                                   Financial Progress
Project Status                                    Timelines                        ( INR Crores)                        Conformity to NeGP
                                                                                                                        Dedicated Project
Approval Status   Approved                        Start Date        31.03.2005     Approved Amount       599.00         Team                   Yes
Approving                                                                          Budgeted Amount                      Quality/Security
Authority         Cabinet                         Approval Date     06.12.2007     (2011-2012)           2.82           Audit                  Yes

                                                                                   Released Amount
Project Phase     Post Implementation             Target Date       31.12.2009     (2011-2012)           0.26           Strategic Control
                                                                                   Financial Provision
                                                                                   in XI Five Year
Project Status    Operational                     Time Period       2 Years        Plan                                 Business Continuity    Yes
                  G2C    G2B    G2G     Total                                                                           e-Governance
No of Services
                  00     08     00      08                                                                              Standards              No
No of
Operational                                                                                                             Integration with
Services          00     08     00      08                                                                              NSDG/SSDG              Not at present

KEY OBJECTIVES
The MMP aims at improving tax-payer services, transparency, accountability and efficiency in the indirect tax administration in India. The project has automated
all major processes in Central Excise and Service Tax through a web-based and workflow-based system.
 Facilitating the process of indirect taxation for the industry and service providers

PRESENT STATUS (May 31, 2012)
 Wef 01.10.2011 all registrations are mandatorily to be done through ACES.
 Wef 01.10.2011 all Service tax and Excise returns are to mandatorily be filed through ACES.
 Data pertaining to the use of registration and return module in ACES is as under:
   o Central Excise Registration Applications – 86166
   o Central Excise Returns – 2145773
   o Service Tax Registration Applications – 623996
   o Service Tax Returns – 1531980
   o Claims and Intimations – 136256
 The usage of ACES website (www.aces.gov.in), as on 31.05.2012 are as under
   o Number of Unique visitors to ACES Website – 1.13 Crores




                                                                              35
     o No. of visits to ACES website – 1.79 Crores
     o No. of Pages opened in ACES Website – 31.55 Crores
     o No. of hits to ACES Website – 138.81 Crores
    Approx. 20 lakhs Registered assesses and approx. 24,000 Departmental officers are covered by these services.

SERVICES                                                                                                 Service Type   Delivery Mode   Status
1.     e- Registration of Service Tax and Central Excise Assesses                                        G2B            Online          Operational
2.     Facility for e-filing of all Returns (including Central Excise Returns and Service Tax Returns)   G2B            Online          Operational
3.     Risk Management System to reduce turnaround time and cost for Cargo handling                      G2B            Online          Operational
4.     Electronic messaging with custodians and other agencies concerned with cargo clearance            G2B            Online          Operational
5.     Electronic messaging with banks for collection of duties and disbursal of duty drawbacks          G2B            Online          Operational
6.     Electronic Processing of Declarations (ON FCFS Basis)                                             G2B            Online          Operational
7.     Automated Clearance of Courier Consignments                                                       G2B            Online          Operational
8.     e-Payment of Customs Duties                                                                       G2B            Online          Operational




                                                                                36
  Annex 6: Results at a Glance
Performance against End of Series




               37
          Annex 6: Results at a Glance
Performance against First Year Targets (2012/2013)




                        38
                                            Annex 7: Overall Program Outcome Achievement

REFORM AREA 1.1: REDUCE THE GAP           ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: With 1776 total e-services, 237 of which are in less advanced states, targets for
BETWEEN LEADING AND LESS ADVANCED         2012/2013 and End of Series 2013/2014 have been met. Good progress is being made in reducing the gap
STATES                                    between advanced and less advanced states.


                                          ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: Actual performance data for June 2012 indicated that over 143 e-services were
REFORM AREA 1.2: RAISE RELIABILITY &      provided using certified systems, exceeding 2012-2013 targets ( 75 eservices) and End of Series 2013/2014 targets
INTEROPERABILITY OF GOVT SYSTEMS AS A     (159 eservices) , reflecting a marked improvement in achieving the outcome of raising reliability and
RESULT OF CERTIFIED COMPLIANCE            interoperability of government systems.


                                          ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: The number of monitored systems increased dramatically from baseline 2010-2011
REFORM AREA 1.3: ENHANCE DECISION-
MAKING AS A RESULT OF SYSTEMATIC          to June 2012, from 0 to 246 monitored services, exceeding the 2012-1013 target of 124 services monitored and
MONITORING                                essentially meeting the End of Series 2013/2014 target of 250 services .



REFORM AREA 2.1: BROADBAND ACCESS         ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: Broadband subscriptions exceeded 2012-2013 targets and partially met 2013/14
SERVICE POINTS IN ALL PANCHAYATS &        targets, number of service access points have partially met both 2012/13 and 2013/14 targets, and the number of
MOBILE PLATFORM FOR E-SERVICES DEL.       services delivered using mobile platforms has exceeded both.


                                          ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: 50 services have incorporated user participation in the design and impact
REFORM AREA 2.2: SERVICES IMPROVED        assessment, partially meeting the 2012-2013 target of 100 e-services and the End of Series 2013/2014 target of
IN RESPONSE TO CITIZEN FEEDBACK
                                          200 e-services. It is possible this number may increase by June 2013, the appropriate date of measuring
                                          performance using the 2012-2013 target.


REFORM AREA 2.3: BPR PROCESSES,           ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: Actual performance for BPR will exceed targets for 2012/13 and partially meet
IMPROVE BEHAVIOR OF OFFICIALS RE:         targets for 2013/14. In addition, the number of states which have implemented targeted governance training (20)
SERVICE DELIVERY, RAISE SERVICE QUALITY   is twice that of the 2012-2013 target, and partially meets 2013/14 target of 35 states.


                                          ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: The ESD bill has been referred to the appropriate Standing Committee in
 REFORM AREA 2.4: THE ESD BILL IS BEING   Parliament and third party policy experts indicate that the ESD bill is likely to become law by the end of calendar
CONSULTED AND DEBATED IN PARLIAMENT       year 2013. Targets for 2012/13 and 2013/14 have been met.


                                          ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTCOME: By June 2012, 18 e-services were verifying users. This level of performance is
REFORM AREA 2.5: USERS CAN BE VERIFIED    positive, and partially meets the 2012-2013 target of 25 e-services. It is quite possible that the 2012-2013 targets
BY SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEMS ANYWHERE,     will be met by June 2013, but an additional verification would be needed to make this determination. This does
ANYTIME                                   not meet the 2013/14 target of 50 e-services

                                                                  39
                          Annex 8: Summary of Findings
         from Impact Assessment of NeGP State and National Level Projects


The impact assessment study results indicate an abysmal state of delivery of services in the
earlier or in some cases, existing manual system in all the three types of projects (land
records, property registration and transport). Users need to make 3-4 trips (and up to seven
trips in some cases) to government offices on an average, wait for two hours or more (and up to 6
hours in some cases) in each trip, and pay bribes frequently (20 to 50 percent of all transactions)
to get services. Even a simple service such as obtaining a copy of land record can take as many as
21 days (although it takes six or less days in seven states), while property registration and issue of
a driver’s license take an average of 33 and 24 days respectively. In some states, the elapsed time
(days elapsed from application to final registration) for the latter two services can be as high as 2-
3 months.

Citizens indicated an overwhelming preference for computerized service delivery. Their
preference was supported by specific areas where concrete benefits have accrued to them. For
instance, in all three services, the number of trips to offices reduced by 1-2 trips after
computerization whereas waiting time has been reduced by 20-40 percent. Direct cost savings to
citizens averaged rupees 60-110 across all states.

Although the outcome in reducing corruption is mixed, e-Government seems to have the
potential for significant reduction in corruption. This is indicated by the fact that bribes have
either been eliminated or significantly reduced in five out of the ten states after land record
computerization. In property registration and transport, there has hardly been any impact on
bribery and a large number of users continue to go through agents to get the service.

Amongst the three projects, land record computerization seems to have resulted in the most
positive impact. A significant reduction was seen in the number trips and waiting time in all
states. However, in most states users reported an increase in travel costs (in spite of a reduction in
number of trips) because in the computerized mode, delivery of Record of Rights (RoRs) has
been centralized to taluka level from the village level.

Perception on quality of service and quality of governance showed an improvement in all
projects. In overall citizen perception, Himachal Pradesh (HP), Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and
Tamil Nadu rank high while Haryana, Orissa and West Bengal rank low based on a composite
score (computed on the basis of improvements on twenty dimensions of service delivery) in all
three projects.

The study reveals that there is a great deal of difference in the performance of the best and
the worst state in case of each of the three computerized applications . Given the fact that the
processing steps in the delivery of the three services can be very similar across states, there is no
explanation for the variation in performance, other than the varying quality of process reform and
design of these systems. This indicates that each state has chosen to design its application without
learning from best practices elsewhere.

Among the three central government projects, MCA21 appears to have had the most
positive impact on the users on key dimensions covered in this study. The passport project has
had virtually no impact. Results of the Income Tax survey indicate that whereas corporate users,
individual users have not benefitted significantly.



                                                 40
In order for a system to deliver significant value to all stakeholders, it is important to
involve them in the design of the application. In the case of MCA21, design and
implementation was done through a consultative approach with internal and external stakeholders
participating at every stage.

Corruption level, accuracy of transactions and cost of availing service as the three most
important attributes. Other important attributes are the queuing system, Accessibility to data,
Speed and efficiency of query handling, Clarity and simplicity of processes and procedures and
Time and effort required to avail services.




                                              41
                              Annex 9: Policy and Technical Support




                                           Policy and Technical Support
                              Provided by the World Bank for NeGP Development
           1      WB's Policy Notes - on all the key policy areas
           2      Bank's Note on suggestions for ESD Bill
           3      Framework for Citizens Engagement
           4      Inputs on NeGP M&E Framework
           5      WB's workshop on m-Governance and Ist Draft paper on Mobile Governance
           6      Guidelines on Strategic Control of Outsourced e-Governance projects *
           7      Bank's review comments on the Capacity Building Scheme
           8      Communication and Awareness Strategy
           9      Grant in Aid Template *
           10     Results Framework
           11     DPR Template *
           12     DPR Appraisal framework *
           13     WB's Impact assessment report of e-Government projects in India and Chile *
           14     Program Management Manual *
*          15     Program Financial Management Manual *
           16     Program Procurement Manual *
           17     Targeting Criteria *
           18     Review note on Standards for e-Government
           19     Model RFP Toolkit and Guidance Note for preparation of RFPs *
           20     MOUs Template for support to states *
           21     Review of State and Central MMP proposals *
           22     Capacity assessment of NICSI, NISG and NeGD *
           23     Review of Rate Contract procedures for NICSI *
           24     Review of Enterprise Architecture Framework *
           25     DPR Cost Tables *
           26     South-South eGov knowledge sharing
           27     e-Panchayati Raj initiative
           28     Discussions on the National IT Policy
           29     Meetings on UID / Aadhaar
    Connotes policy and technical support provided during e-Bharat SIL preparation, prior to e-Delivery of
    Public Services DPL




                                                     42
      Annex 10: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s ICR consists of the following documents:

     1.     A cover letter from the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology
     2.     An updated policy matrix providing actual data as noted in the column labeled
            “Status as of 30th June, 2012?
     3.     An update of each reform area under the e-Delivery of Public Services DPL
            (“Action Taken Update?).
     4.     Comments on the draft ICR




                                             43
44
45
46
47
                                     Action Taken Update

Policy Action 1.1 - Strengthen states’ institutions in e-governance
Status update:

1. The Government has developed a comprehensive policy for institutional strengthening program.
   As part of the initiative, three core areas have been addressed:

      Establishment of an Institutional Framework for State Level Strategic decision- making
       including setting-up of State e-Governance Mission Teams (SeMT) - Total SeMTs as on 23rd
       June 2012 – 262;
      Specialized Training Orientation Program for SeMTs and decision makers:
           Leadership Meet : 20 Programmes completed;
           Orientation Training for SeMT: 205 SeMT members from 34 States/ UT’s and 8
            NeGD Central Team members
           Specialized Training for eGovernance Programme for Government Officers:
            -    No. of STeP Training Completed -77
            -    Total Participants - 2082
            -    No. of States participated - 20.
      Establishment of a Central Capacity Building Management Cell for coordination and
       implementation of the Capacity Building Scheme.

2. Further, dedicated institutions have also been established at the Apex , Program and Project
   levels as detailed below:
    Apex Level - Apex Committees have been set up both at the Central as well as at State
       levels to providing leadership, direction and vision for e-Governance.
    Program (i.e. at State) level - State e-Governance Mission Teams (SeMTs) with expert
       resources in the areas of project management, change management, technology and finance
       management etc. are being set up in all States/UTs.
    Project (i.e. at Department) level - Project teams to oversee project execution, manage
       implementation and to deal with technology, process and change management issues are
       proposed to be established at the implementing department / agency level for each MMP
       Project.

3. National level program management:
   The Government has designated the National e-Governance Division (NeGD) as the Central
   agency for overall program management and implementation of the Capacity Building Scheme
   under the Cabinet approved Capacity Building Scheme.

4. PPP Policy
    Guidelines for PPP in e-Governance projects have been drafted and circulated for comments
      by DeitY.
    The Government has also setup several inter-ministerial committees that will have direct
      impact on the National PPP Policy, namely National PPP Policy, Allocation of Natural
      Resources Committee and Public Procurement Committee.
    DeitY has also taken the initiative to formulate Model RFP Templates, Guideline Notes and
      an interactive web-based Toolkit to support the formulation of e-governance projects.




                                               48
Policy Action 1.2 - Development of Technical Standards for e-Governance
Standards and Guidelines Published/Notified:


       Areas of Standardization                                    Status
 1. Policy on Open Standards             Policy notified.

                                         Selection of Single Royalty Free Open Standards to avoid
                                         vendor/technology lock-in.
 2. Biometrics                           Face Image, Fingerprint & Minutiae Standards;

                                         IRIS Image data standard notified.
 3. Metadata and Data Standards          MDDS for Person Identification and Land Codification
 (MDDS) - Demographic
 4. Network and Information Security     9 guidelines to aid an ISO 27001 implementation for
                                         secure e-Governance systems;

                                         Security guidelines for e procurement systems.
 5. Digital Signature                    Interoperability Guidelines for Digital Signatures;
                                         Guidelines for Digital Signature usage.

 6. Localization                         Encoding (Unicode 5.1.0), Font (ISO/IEC14496-22).

 7. Quality Assurance                    Quality Assurance Framework (QAF) & Conformity
                                         Assessment Requirements document (CARE) guidelines.
 8. Technical standards under IFEG       Technical standards in 47 areas notified.
 Phase I and Phase II report

 Standards and guidelines work under progress


       Areas of Standardization                                    Status
 1. MDDS – MoPR Domain                  Draft document circulated for review by closed group of
                                        stakeholders
 2. Interoperability Framework for E-   Draft document submitted by Expert committee
 Governance (IFEG)
 3. Guidelines for Localization of      Draft document revised by Localization expert committee to
 eGovernance systems                    be put up for public review
 4. XML Signature                       Public review completed. Feedback being incorporated.

 5.Digital Preservation                 Best practices and Standard document for preservation of e
                                        records under review.




                                                49
       Areas of Standardization                                        Status
  6. Institutional mechanism for domain     Institutional mechanism approved and circulated to 12
  MDDS                                      MMP’s for formulation of domain MDDS.

  7. Mobile standards and guidelines        Draft under revision
  8. National Institute for Standards       Draft Approach Paper on Indian Institute for Standards and
                                            Technology under review.
  9. Mechanism for Version control,         Committee/Groups proposed for formulation.
  Standards Compliance and guidelines
  for Reference Implementation


8 States/UTs have been certified by STQC under reforms, SSDG and State Portal for compliance
w.r.t MDDS – Demographic Standards and the GIGW guidelines certification. This totals to 143
eservices.

Policy Action 1.3 - Improve inter-agency coordination and monitoring of e-governance

The Government has begun utilizing the M&E framework to improve monitoring and coordination of
e-governance. This is being done through the following initiatives:

  a. Program Management Information System (PMIS): PMIS has been conceived as an online tool
     to drive implementation of financially and technically massive and geographically diverse
     MMPs. As on date 22 operational projects are being actively tracked through the system. The
     second phase of the PMIS involves ambitious modules for workflow management, role-based
     system access, and service tracking. In addition, comprehensive performance indicators and
     dashboards have been taken up and are being refined to meet stakeholder needs. PMIS can be
     reached at www.egovpmis.gov.in.

  b. Monthly Progress Reports (MPR): MPRs are being regularly forwarded to Cabinet Secretary
     wherein information received from PMIS is critically analyzed and MMPs’ performance is
     reviewed and graded on standardized templates, on a monthly basis. Similarly, status of core
     infrastructure is also reported through the MPR.

  c. Prime Minister Appointed Expert Group on NeGP: The Prime Minister’s Committee on NeGP
     mandated formation of an Expert Group to review each of the MMPs and to identify critical
     operational, legal, financial and institutional issues and bottlenecks in each of them.

Following this mandate, a detailed evaluation of the performance of most of the MMPs has been
carried out.

The report of the Expert Group is under finalization and is likely to be placed in the public domain
soon.

  d. State Action Plans: Based on the funds’ allocation to States/UTs for various e-Governance
     initiatives, individual States/UTs have been requested to come up with a plan to utilize the same
     within the financial year 2012-13. A standard template has been prepared wherein the states



                                                    50
    report their individual implementation plan for the various e-Governance initiatives. These plans
    are being monitored on a quarterly basis. The performance of the States/UTs are being
    monitored and graded as per their present status and the implementation of their action plans.

e. e-Transaction Monitoring: As part of the State Action Plan Initiative, DeitY is also monitoring
   number of electronic transactions being delivered by various states and UTs. As on date, more
   than 8 crore transactions/month are taking place under various electronic services provided by
   the States/UTs.


Policy Action 2.1 - Improve access to services by using the mobile platform while increasing
the pace of internet penetration.

1. A Framework for Mobile Governance (http://deity.gov.in/content/framework-mobile-
   governance) has been developed and notified in the Gazette of India to facilitate use of the reach
   of mobile phones and related mobile-applications for easier and anytime access to public
   services, especially in rural areas.

2. Drawing on TRAI recommendations on                   National   Broadband     Plan,   a   revised
   Telecommunications Policy is under preparation.

3. The Cabinet has approved development of a National Optical Fiber Network to provide
   broadband connectivity in Panchayats.

4. Good progress is being made towards development of a Mobile Services Delivery Gateway
      (MSDG).

5. SMS Gateway has been launched in different departments:
   a. PUSH SMS (Messages sent by Departments to users/ citizens): 82 Department
      offering their services using PUSH SMS and more than 5600000 SMSs pushed as of 30-
      June-2012.
   b. PULL SMS (Messages received by Departments from users/ citizens): 98 unique services
      operationalized for integrating Departments as of 30-June-2012.

6. Mobile App Store has been launched. 4 live and 31 generic mobile applications are currently
   hosted on the Govt. m-Appstore mgov.gov.in. Generic Apps can be integrated with the backend
   databases.

Policy Action 2.2 - Facilitate increased participation of users in design and evaluation of e-
governance projects

1.      Citizen Engagement Framework (CEF) for e-Governance Projects and a Framework and
Guidelines for Use of Social Media have been conceptualized. These Frameworks include both
online as well as offline methods of Citizen Engagement. Keeping in view the challenges of online
engagement, Framework and Guidelines for Use of Social Media have also been drafted separately.

The following is proposed to be undertaken as part of the Scheme to achieve institutionalization of
citizen engagement in e-Governance projects in India:
   Preparation of an Engagement Toolkit: To implement the framework, a comprehensive toolkit
       is proposed which will act as a guide for undertaking the engagement. This toolkit would



                                                 51
         enable implementers identify potential methodologies and mechanisms for undertaking the
         desired engagements at different stages of the project.
        Development of Citizen Engagement Platform: A platform is proposed to be developed by
         DeitY which will enable both internet as well mobile based engagements with citizens.
        Pilot Citizen Engagement Framework in MMPs: In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of
         the framework, the framework will be piloted for select MMPs at different stages of
         implementation. This would ensure testing of the framework as well as designing of
         appropriate methodologies for citizen engagement
        Citizen Engagement Fund: Citizen Engagement is an integral part of stakeholder consultation
         for ensuring wider acceptance, appropriate planning and long term sustainability of e-
         Governance Projects. As such, it involves allocation of funds that are earmarked for this
         activity alone. Since the engagement needs to be undertaken throughout the entire project life
         cycle, any associated costs need to be planned for at the beginning of all the new e-
         Governance Projects. For existing projects, DeitY shall take the initiative in creating the
         required fund. This Fund will enable the various Central Ministries/Departments to undertake
         Citizen Engagement for current e-Governance Projects.

2.         Rural Outreach

As part of deepening Citizen Engagement and to spread awareness about e-governance in villages,
DeitY is undertaking a nationwide Outreach Campaign through Common Services Centres (CSCs)
across the country. A total of 2843 CSCs across 25 states are being covered during the outreach
campaign touching almost 300,000 people in villages.

A fully furbished Exhibition Van will provide opportunity for hands on experience about various
public services available through these Centers. Other interesting elements of the Exhibition are
Street Plays, audio visual experience and VLE assistance is educating people about convenience and
transparency of services available through CSCs.

3.         Government Outreach

DeitY is undertaking a comprehensive exercise in States to reach out to all levels of government.
This is being done through State, division, and district level workshops. Till date 5 regional and 21
state workshops have been organized. In addition, district level workshops have also been held in
select States with nearly 5000 government officials having participated and benefitted from these
workshops.

4.         Academia Outreach

DeitY is supporting NeGP awareness workshops in 41 Central and State Universities with 20 such
workshops having been held and nearly 3000 students reached through this effort.

5.         Virtual Outreach

The NeGP portal is being enhanced and a dynamic version of the portal is expected to be launched
by Dec 15 2012. In addition, presence on Social media platform has been created on a pilot basis.
Currently NeGP has presence on FaceBook & YouTube.

To encourage exchange and cross pollination of ideas a collaboration portal for e-governance
practitioners has been created on which nearly 600 practitioners – both from within and outside
government - from across the country participate.


                                                   52
6.      Creating Audio Visual Repository

While on ground activities are being undertaken, it is equally essential to create record of such
activities as well as opinions of service providers as well as service seekers. Towards this end, two
films each on NeGP and CSC are being produced that incorporate on ground reality from 10
different state and MMPs. In addition, a series of VLE experience is also being created. One of the
critical element of good project management is incorporation of learning from successful projects
especially those that demonstrate how active and effective stakeholder engagement has contributed
to the success of the project. Towards this end, a special e-Champion series is being created where
conversations with e-Champions will provide insights into how stakeholder consultation has
contributed towards success of the project.

7.      Impact Assessment

DeitY has commissioned impact assessment studies of nearly 50 mature e-Governance projects.
These studies underscore the importance of conducting baseline surveys of users of the existing
system before conceptualising a new system to replace it. The impact is assessed on the following
parameters:

   i.   Service Outreach
  ii.   Cost of Accessing the Service
 iii.   Quality of service rendered; and
 iv.    Overall impact on governance

8.      e-Readiness Assessment

DeitY has also been conducting e-Readiness Assessment Studies successfully. The findings of these
studies help identify gaps, strengths and the level of disparity within and across the States.

The e-Readiness study includes the following:

   i.   e-Readiness Assessment of states
  ii.   e-Readiness Assessment of central line ministries
 iii.   Case studies of successful e-governance projects
 iv.    State wise policy recommendations

Policy Action 2.3 - Improve service orientation of government processes and officials.

1.      Process re-engineering:

Following recommendations as contained in DPAR’s Report on BPR for e-Governance, DeitY has
issued ‘Guidelines for Operational Model for implementation of Mission Mode Projects’ which are
to be implemented by all Line Ministries and State Departments implementing MMP projects.

These guidelines require setting of a Process Advisory Committee (PAC) under each Project
Management Team (PeMT) in the implementing agency. The GPR is the responsibility of the
Project Management Team and the PAC in the concerned PeMT is responsible to provide process
level inputs for the MMP Project.

As Standards for GPR are not well established, DARPG in consultation with DeitY and CSIR is
working on formulation of standards for GPR.


                                                 53
2.        Reorientation for State Government Policy Makers and Officials in E-governance:

     i.   Chief Information Officer (CIO) training program for State Governments and Central
          Government ministries and departments’ e-Governance champions - Two Pilot batches with
          46 programmes completed and a National roll out with 8 batches has been proposed.
  ii.     A roadmap for future capacity building scheme has been initiated.
 iii.     HR Policy: Prime Minister’s Committee on NeGP approved the preparation of an HR Policy
          for taking NeGP forward which could become a part of the NeGP. Following these
          directions, an Expert Committee has been constituted to recommend the HR framework and
          policy for e-Governance which would address the need for harnessing talent from the
          Government as well as from the open market. Deliberations of this Committee are at an
          advanced stage of formalization.

Policy Action 2.4 Electronic Service Delivery (ESD) Act

DIT was able to far exceed progress expectations in this area. DIT prepared a draft ESD Bill in
extensive consultations with states, central government and civil society. The Electronic Delivery of
Services (EDS) Bill 2011 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on 27th December 2011. The Bill was
referred to the Parliament Standing Committee on Information Technology on 5th January 2012. The
Committee has tabled its Report to Lok Sabha (laid in Rajya Sabha) on 30th August 2012. The
Department of Electronics and Information Technology is working on the recommendations made
by the Committee.

Recently DeitY has formulated and circulated Model State Electronic Service (ESD) Rules for
adoption by various States under the Information Technology Act, 2000. On the basis of these
Model Rules, the State of Manipur has recently notified Manipur State IT Electronic Service
Delivery (ESD) Rules. Other States/UTs are also in the process of notifying/adopting these rules.

Policy Action 2.5 - Uniform and Predictable Verification of e-Service Users

DeitY has conceptualized the “e-Pramaan: Framework for e-Authentication? that is intended to serve
as the guiding document for all central and state ministries and departments for implementing an
appropriate authentication model for delivery of their services while maintaining uniformity and
consistency across various authentication mechanisms.

Under this Framework, the key implementation strategy is to develop e-Pramaan Gateway (a central
hub for all e-Authentication transactions) and Identity Directories. e-Pramaan Gateway will provide
a convenient and secure way for users to access government services via internet/mobile as well as
for the government to assess the authenticity of the users. e-Pramaan Gateway is proposed to be
integrated with NSDG (National Service Delivery Gateway), SSDG (State Service Delivery
Gateway) and MSDG (Mobile Service Delivery Gateway) and shall act as a standard authentication
mechanism between service access providers and corresponding messaging middleware (NSDG,
SSDG or MSDG).

A PoC with ePASS application of Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Department has been successfully
completed, while a pilot project has also been initiated in Andaman and Nicobar Islands.




                                                 54
Comments of Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DeitY) on ICR
          for “e-delivery of Public Services Development Policy Loan?

(DeitY has, vide its D.O. no. 2(1)/05-EGD (Vol. IV) dt. 11.03.13 provided detailed comments on the
 subject draft Report. The comments below are summarized and based on the revised ICR received
                                       by email on 14-3-2013)

(1) Despite excellent performance in six out of eight reform areas and nine out of twelve
performance indicators, the rating of Moderately Satisfactory‟ seems to be misplaced and not based
on facts available in the ICR. Moreover, achievements and the outcomes in reform areas have been
evaluated mid-year while there still remains time up to June 2013 for meeting the targets. Therefore,
the rating deserves to be much higher.

(2) At a few places in the ICR, unsubstantiated and generic statements leading to somewhat
sweeping conclusions have been made. These need to be reviewed and revised.

(3) DeitY has, at a few places in draft ICR, been referred to as the implementing agency for National
e-Governance Plan (NeGP). It is clarified that while DeitY drives and monitors NeGP while Mission
Mode Projects under NeGP are implemented by the respective Ministries/States.

(4) Reference to ‘less advanced States’ has been made at various paragraphs in the ICR. As it is not a
widely recognized terminology, it would be appropriate to place this phrase within quotes.

Specific revisions to the ICR are attached.

Paragraph 7: The modified paragraph is modified as below:
While considerable headway has been made in a number of these areas, few other areas
(particularly a few MMPs and “less advanced states?) have exhibited weaker performance. The
implementation of the MMPs is the primary responsibility of line ministries and departments, yet,
many of the state departments, in particular, have not made MMPs a high priority. Furthermore,
“less advanced states? have been slower to build the necessary capacity to implement the NeGP,
creating a noticeable gap between these states and more advanced states which have pursued a more
aggressive implementation strategy. The obstacles related to MMPs and “less advanced states? were
evident in the early phases of the NeGP program. In 2010, the Government recognized that the
uneven progress of NeGP was not the result of funding constraints or the absence of specific
investments, but rather challenges associated with cross-cutting policy and coordination at the
program level. Some of the critical issues included underperformance of certain MMPs, the lack of
coordination between disparate IT initiatives, and a growing gap between advanced states and those
with substantially lower capacity. Government policies were needed to provide a framework for the
program and institutional actions in key areas such as government process re-engineering, the use of
mobile phones in accessing services, citizen engagement in the design of e-services, and the
framework for Public Private Partnerships in public service delivery. A comprehensive national
program of capacity building and institutional strengthening was called for to address the uneven
progress in specific states and agencies as well as to re-orient officials to new ways of interacting
with citizens. A stronger methodology and implementation framework for monitoring and impact
assessment was required to track progress, to ensure coordination, and to focus central assistance in
areas requiring additional support including in states where e-governance has been much slower to
take off.




                                                 55
Paragraph 28: Reform Area 2.1, 2 out of 3 indicators have achieved target, hence the 2.1
should be considered as target achieved. Therefore the header of the paragraph is modified
given below:
When assessing performance by the eight reform areas, six areas involve targets which have been
fully met; the other two have one or more indicators which have partially met their relevant target,
and actual achievement of the target remains a possibility before June 2013.

Paragraph 30: The highlighted section in the below statement is unsubstantiated by the ICR
Team:
Both of these aspects of the NeGP were recognized as implementation challenges before and during
the DPL, and they remain so today. Ineffective coordination between DIT and line ministries rests at
the heart of the poor MMP performance.

Hence it is suggested to remove the same.

Paragraph 31: DeitY is the monitoring agency of NeGP, hence 2nd line of paragraph should
mention:
 “The Department of Electronics and Information Technology as the monitoring agency of NeGP,
was tasked with the oversight function associated with monitoring and evaluation of NeGP
implementation at state and central levels; this included infrastructure and technical components.

Paragraph 32: The header of the paragraph is modified given below:
The World Bank provided some technical assistance to the Government of India to support the
development of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework for the NeGP

Paragraph 34: 2nd line of paragraph should be modified as below:
Later the DEA clarified that it prefers that these efforts focus on NeGP implementation in “less
advanced states?.

Paragraph 38: The content of paragraph should be modified as below:
Prior to the introduction of the DPL, coordination between central ministries as well as between the
center and state-level institutions was particularly problematic due to the large scale nature and
complexity of the NeGP initiative. To this effect, a programmatic DPL was chosen and introduced as
the appropriate lending instrument to support upstream, cross-cutting policy actions designed to
leverage impact and improve results in delivery of public services. Given the need for a NeGP policy
framework, the DPL appeared to be well-suited to supporting the needs of the Government of India.

Section 3.3 & 5.2:

The Overall Outcome Rating is given as Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Performance has been rated as Moderately Satisfactory

The ratings do not seems justified considering six out of the eight reform areas and nine out of the
twelve performance indicators target were exceeded. Moreover, achievements and the outcomes in
reform areas have been evaluated mid-year while there still remains time up to June 2013 for
meeting the targets.

Paragraph 42: The header of the paragraph is modified given below:
The evaluation revealed that targets were exceeded in six reform areas by the time of loan closing in
June 2012.


                                                 56
Paragraph 45: As 6 out of 8 reforms has already achieved the 2012-2013 targets, the
paragraph should mention as below:
Half of the reform areas have already exceeded the 2012-2013 targets and additional reform areas
may also achieve their target by June 2013, the final target date.

Paragraph 53: The content of paragraph should be modified as below:
The $9 billion in GoI and Public Private Partnership (PPP) funding provided for the program to date
reflects the importance of the NeGP in terms of government priorities. It is in all likelihood that
similar budgetary support would be provided in future.

Paragraph 56: The highlighted section in the below statement is unsubstantiated by the ICR
Team,
 Actions agreed under Pillar II, and particularly increased participation of users and service
  orientation of public officials, could have results below what was expected in initial program
  design, as citizen-centric service delivery has not yet been mainstreamed in the public service and
  the benefits are perceived only after a few years.
Hence it is suggested to remove the same.

Content of second section of Paragraph 56 is as modified below:
 NeGP’s decentralized implementation arrangements make it difficult for any one department,
   such as DeitY, to coordinate across such a wide range of central and state implementing
   agencies, contributing to the difficulty of MMP implementation, which remains one of the most
   critical areas of NeGP progress.

Paragraph 70(Page 22): The content of paragraph should be modified as below:
The GoI has marshaled unprecedented financial and institutional resources to scale up and
implement the NeGP across the sub-continent, putting in place a critical enabling environment for
rolling out reforms. The India experience, particularly related to NeGP governance arrangements,
would be valuable to share with other countries, through knowledge exchanges and lessons learned.
The NeGP governance structures ensure a remarkable level of quality and guidance to the project, as
they are staffed by seasoned and knowledgeable officers. These structures are designed to monitor
the implementation of NeGP, which affords the ability to take stock of the macro picture and provide
appropriate guidance to field-level implementation teams. Acting together, a host of central and
local government institutions have given wings to a fledgling national e-governance system,
enabling a beneficial environment for achieving the outcome of citizen centered e-delivery of public
services.

Paragraph 71(Page 22): The content of paragraph should be modified as below:
For instance, it does not appear that NeGP is integrated fully with certain other reform initiatives
such as RTI, RTPS, Grievance Redress, and Results Framework Documents. While efforts have
been made, in particular, to integrate NeGP with Grievance Redress and RTI, at the state level the
integrate effort needs enforcement and co-ordination. The central government is in a key position to
provide guidance and support on integrating these efforts, but this would require a well-coordinated
approach crossing multiple Departments and functions, and an ambitious engagement with across 35
states and UTs. In addition, implementation of a few MMPs continues to lag, requiring a reenergized
effort to determine what is needed to make progress in this important area. On its own, the
monitoring agency (DeitY) tries to convene and coordinate institutions at such levels to resolve
issues in a timely manner as the program matures. As regards MMPs implementation, GoI has
provided for an appropriate oversight mechanism as part of which NeGP implementation is regularly
monitored and overseen at the highest level within Government hierarchy.


                                                 57
