Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7277-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH EXTENSION PROJECT
August 24, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Guinean Franc (GF)
US$1.00         =    GF 445 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSD       -    Bureau de Strategie et de Developpement
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIRAD     -    Centre International en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Developpement
CNEARC    -    Centre National d'Etudes Agronomiques des Regions Chaudes
DGFPR     -    Direction Generale de la Formation et Promotion Ruzale
DMVA      -    Division des Methodes de Vulgarisation Agricole
DNRA      -    Direction Nationale de la Recherche Agronomique
EEC       -    European Economic Community
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAPA      -    Fermes Agro-Pastorales d'Arrondissement
FED       -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FEW       -    Field Extension Worker
GTZ       -    Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA      -    International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MARA      -    Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
ONADER    -    Operation Nationale pour le Developpement de la Riziculture
PAG       -    Projet Agricole de Gueckedou
PE        -    Point d'Essai
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
PPV       -    Projet Pilote de Vulgarisation
SAFGRAD   -    Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development
SCET-AGRI -    Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire Agricole
SED       -    Secretariat d'Etat A la Decentralisation
SERS      -    Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
SNATC     -    Service National d'Assistance Technique aux Cooperatives
UEP       -    Unit6s d'Experimentation Paysanne
WARDA     -    West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
Government:   January 1 - December 31
PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/ West Africa regional rate for February 1988



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLk
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE .....    .....................  (iii)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................     ..           (v)
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................... ...      (ix)
I.   INTRODUCTION     ............................................     1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......     ...........................    1
Agricultural Performance and Prospects ................ ..      1
Agricultural Institutions and Services        ..................  3
Government's Policy and Strategy .....   ..................     5
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience ....................       5
III. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION, AND COOPERATIVES ....        6
A.   Agricultural Research .............. .. ................     6
B.   Agricultural Extension ......    .........................   7
C.   Cooperative Development .....................                8
IV.  THE PROJECT     ...............................................   9
A.   General   ..............................................     9
Project Rationale .......    ...........................   9
Project Concept and Objecti'es ............ ........       9
Project Description   .     ..............                10
B. Detailed Features              . . .11
1. Applied Research    ..11
2. Adaptive Research Network    .       .12
3. Trainiing .....................  ......                12
4.  Extension Services       .............................  13
5.  Cooperative Development ......   ..................   14
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................... ..     14
7.  Project Preparation Fund .................... ...     15
8.  Institutional Strengthening ..     ..................  15
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission which took
place from February 22 to March 11, 1988, consisting of Messrs. E. Locatelli
(Mission Leader), B. de Chazal, L. Pohlmeier and Ms. L. Wardle (IDA) and
B. Gray (Consultant). Figures were checked by Mr. S. Bakayoko, and
secretarA Al work was done by Mrs. D. Abhe. The report was checked by
Mrs. J. Ogang and Mrs. A. Hadjadj.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(il)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page
C.   Project Costs and Financing ........................              15
r'.,t  Estimates   ...................................          15
Project Preparatior. Facility .....................             16
Financing Plan ...................................              16
Financial Management Systems .....................             17
Auditing and Reporting Requirements ....       ..........       18
Procurement   ......................................           18
Disbursements ....................................             20
Revolving Fund ...................................              20
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................               21
Research ..............................................              21
Extension .............................................              22
Research/Extension/Farmers Linkage ....................              23
Cooperatives ..........................................              23
Institutional Strengthening ...........................              23
Monitoring and Evaluation .............................              24
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .25
Benefits.25
Budgetary Implications.                                              26
Employment and Poverty Impact .........................              27
Environm.ental  Impact   ...................................................  n7
Project Risks  ........................................              27
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....        ...........       28
ANNEXES
1        Technical Recommendations Readily Available for Main Food Crops
2        National and Project Area Planted with Main Food Crops and
Current/Estimated Yields
3        Location, Programs and Size of Research Centers
4        Location of Off-Station/On-Farm Trials
5        Population, Ratios Extension Agents to Rural Families,
Estimated Area Covered
6        Extension, Phase-in of Prefectures and Staff
7        Project Costs by Component and Nature
8        Project Costs by Institution, Component and Nature
9        Disbursement Estimates and Profiles
10        Direction of National Agricultural Research - Organization Chart
11        Research Action Plan
12        Organization Chart - Extension Services
13        Technical Assistance
14        Economic Analysis - Economic Rate of Return
15        Economic Farmgate Prices
MAP:       IBRD No. 20896: Guinea National Research and Extension
Project - Project Area, Location of Research Centers



(iii)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.   Deuxibme Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles/Vulgarisation
Agricole. Preparation Report. SCET-AGRI, September 1987.
2.   Deuxieme Projet d'Appui aux Services Agricoles-Recherche
Agronomique. SCET-AGRI, July 1987.
3.   Rapport sur la Recherche Agronomique Guineenne. Projet Quinquennal
de Recherche Rizicole, Fruitiere et Vivriere. SCET-AGRI, February
1987. IRAT-IY%FA-CIRAD.
4.   Etude de Restructuration des Services Agricoles et de Schemas
Directeurs Regionaux de Developpement Rural. SCET-AGRI.
AGROPROGRESS.  August 1986.
B.   STAFF WORZKING PAPERS
1.   Research-Diagnostic Survey; Training Program; Project Staffing;
Research Program; Calendar of Research Activities.
Extension-Training Program; Staffing.
2.  Detailed Cost Tables; Production Data; Economic Analysis.
3.   Cooperati;e Development.



(v)
REPUBLIC CG' GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Government of Guinea
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MARA)
State Secretariat for Scientific Research (SERS)
State Secretariat for Decentralization (SED)
Amount:           SDR 14.2 million (US$18.4 million)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Proiect
DescriRtion:     The project would, over a fiv--year period, improve the
efficiency of Guinea's agricultural research and extension
services, and develop an institutional framework for
promoting farmers organizations, thereby contributing to
increased agricultural production and farmers' incomes.
This would be implemented through:
(a) selection and testing of promising local and
introduced plant materials and production
technologies at the research stations;
(b) establishment of teams for survey and analysis of
farmers' constra'4nts; and a network of on-station
and on-farm trials to test the adaptability of crop
varieties and production technology in selected
agro-ecological areas;
(c) local and overseas training in commodity and
cropping systems research, research and extension
methodologies and management, and specific tezhnical
topics;
(d) reorganization and strengthening of extension services
at the central and prefectoral levels;
(e) support to a national cooperative support agency
(SNATC) to establish the basis for a sound and
sustainable cooperative movement;
(f) strengthening of the capacity of MARA's and SERS's
extension and research structurea for planning,
management, and monitoring and evaluation; and
(g) funds to prepare/start-up other projects in the sector.



(vi)
Estimated Proiect Costs a/
Local      Foreign      Total         2 of
---     (USS million)-------        Base Cost
Applied Research                 2.0         6.1         8.1           32
Adaptive Research                1.2         1.6         2.8           11
Training                         0.6         2.7         3.3          13
Extension                        1.9         4.0         5.9           24
Cooperatives                       -         0.6         0.6            2
Monitoring & Evaluation            -         0.2         0.2            -
Project Prep. Fund               0.2         0.8         1.0            4
Institutional Strengthening    0.8           2.7         3.5           14
Total Base Costs                 6.7        18.7       25.4          100
Physical Contingencies           0.7         1.1         1.8            7
Price Contingencies              1.9         1.8         3.7           15
Total Project Costs              9.3        21.6       30.9          122
(Including Taxes)
Taxes                            0.9          -          0.9
Total Project Costs
(Net of Taxes)                8.4        21.6        30.0
a/  Including two PPFs for US$0.87 million for Pilot Extension Project
and start-up research activities.
Tentative Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                       2.0)         0.9         2.9
IDA                              4.6         13.8        18.4
FED                              1.8          4.3         6.1
FAC                                -          1.6         1.6
IFAD                             0.9          1.0         1.9
9.3        21.6        30.9
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994      1995
---------------------(US$ million)---------------------
Annual          3.7       2.8      4.2       4.0       1.8      1.7       0.2
Cumulative      3.7      6.5      10.7      14.7     16.5      18.2      18.4



(vii)
Benefits and Risks
Benefits would stem from: (a) MARA's and SERS's improved
ability to plan, coordinate, and implement agricultural research and
extension at the national level; (b) increased production of food crops
(about 1Z per annum) and fruit crops, thereby contributing to food
security and increased exports. The increase in foocd production and
the participation of women in extension activities would directly benefit
them both as heads of rural households and as an important labor force in
crop production; and (c) increased incomes for most of Guinea's rural
community. Readily available technology would benefit, in a reladively
short period, over 200,000 rural families directly touched by the
renewed extension service; research results would, in the medium- to
long-term, benefit the majority of the rural families. Additional
benefits would derive from the training of local Rtaff and the
enhancement of farmer organizations.
Major risks are related to ineffective management of research
and extenaion programs, failure to adhere to agreed priorities and
balance in research programs, and low adoption of research findings due
to lack of confidence on the part of farmers and inappropriate research
conducted in isolation. The first risk would be minimized by
establishing an ad hoc committee for research and extension, providing
technical assistance, and establishing contractual arrangements between
research and extension services. The second risk would be reduced by
establishing research priorities through an annual review of programs
and budgets involving all donors and farmers. The third risk is
addressed by the Pilot Extension Program wnich h.as reestablished
fa_mers' confidence, and by emphasizing on-farm research and linkage
among research and extension staff and farmers to make research and
extension responsive to farmers' needs.
Economic Rate of Return: 20Z (Extension component)
Map: IBRD No. 20896



(ix)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Unit       1974-76 Av.      1986
1. Population
Total                                  M                   4.7        5.64
Rural as 2 of Total                    Z                  84.0       78.0
Rural Families                       '000                611.0      770.0
2. Economic Overview
GDP/Capita                             $                            320.0
Agric. GDP/Capita
Rural Population                  $                 140.0     126.0
Agricultural GDP as Z of Total         S                  43.0       31.0
3. Land Use
Land Area                           sq.km                246.0     246.0
Perennial Ciops                    '000 ha               131.0     211.0
Annual Crops                       '000 ha               912.0   1,328.0
4. Output a/
(i) Rice                 74-75 Av. a 100             100.0      144.0
(ii) Fonio                                            100.C      165.0
(iii) Cassava                                           100.0     120.0
(iv) Coffee                                           100.0       51.0
5. Inputs
Fertilizers                      '000 tons                 -          1.0
6. Trade (Current Prices)
Total Exports (FOB)                    $ m               186.0     554.5
of which:
Agricultural Products                S                   -        19.3
or which:   (i) Palm Kernels         Z                  35.0       -
(ii) Coffee              S                  25.0       -
(iii) Pineapple           S                  31.0        -
Total Imports:                         $ m               257.0     451.7
of which: Agricuitural Products        S                   9.0        -
7. Govornment Expenditures
Total Recurrent Budget                 $ m               212.0     251.3
of which: Agriculture                S                   -         1.0  a/
Total Capital Budget                   $ m               174.0     147.8
of which: Agriculture                S                  17.0       -
a/ Outside externally financed projects



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since December 1985, the Government of Guinea has been implementing
an ambitious economic reform program to reverse the deteriorating trend of
the economy over the last 25 years. In 1986-87, significant progress was
made toward establishing a market-oriented economy. Results have been
encouraging as significant supply responses have been observed in the rural
sector; however they have not been sufficient to fill the gap between current
and potential agricultural production. To achieve this, the favorable
environment created by the policy reforms needs to be complemented by the
improvement of agricultural support services which have been neglected for
several decades. The Government has requested IDA's assistance in the
formulation and financing of investments to improve such services: research
and extension have been identified as priorities. The Government, aware of
the need to start strengthening farmer organizations to provide input and
credit services, would provide the seed funds required to help develop
cooperatives.
1.02      An IDA-financed Pilot Extension Program is underway and training of
research staff and maintenance of research activities are being executed
under IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) financing. To complement these
activities, the proposed project would (a) help develop an institutional
framework for defining strategies and national programs of research and
extension; (b) provide necessary funding to revamp and operate the systems;
(c) provide support for cooperative development; and (d) make funds available
to prepare other projects essential for sector development. It would finance
the first five-year phase of a long-term program to improve research and
extension at an estimated cost of US$30.9 million to be financed by IDA, the
Government, the European Development Fund (FED), the French Aid Agency (FAC),
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The project
was prepared through the pilot project (para 2.17). A preparation report
formulated with the assistance of consultants (SCET-AGRI) was issued by the
Government in December 1986.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Performance and Prospects
2.01      The rural sector, including agriculture, livestock, fisheries and
forestry accounted for 30Z of GNP in 1986, and provided employment for about
80Z of the population. Despite the potential offered by Guinea's diverse and



-2-
fertile natural resources, agricultural performance has been disappointing
during the past 25 years. Agricultural commodities, while accounting for the
bulk of Guinea's exiorts in 1958, now represent less than 3Z of the value of
exports. In 1986, food imports increased by 13Z of total exports.
2.02      This picture of stagnating production and mounting import
requirements until about 1980 was in marked contrast to Guinea's agriculture
potential. The failure to develop the agricultural sector stemmed largely
from distorted macroeconomic and sector policies (pricing, marketing, and
resource allocation), dilapidated infrastructure, and ineffectual
institutions (transport, research, extension, input supply, storage, and
rural credit). This resulted in a lack of adequate technical advice and
inputs to farmers. Since December 1985, the Government has implemented
far-reaching reforms, including an initial 13-fold devaluation of the Guinean
Franc (SF), followed by the ilntroduction of an at.-'tn system for foreign
exchange; price decontrol; liberalization of internal and external trade;
disengagement of the public sector from productive activities; and
reorientation of public investment programs toward supporting the directly
prod-ictive sector, particularly in rural areas.
2.03      While the policy reforms undartaken during the last three years
have elicited an important supply response from the rural sector, the sector
is still faced with the following constraints: (a) a very low level of
technology, use of genetically eroded crop varieties, and inadequate
production technologies resulting in extremely poor yields; (b) limited crop
diversification; (c) slow emergence of the private sector in input
distribution; (c) institutional weakness of support services including poor
training, inadequate organization, and insufficient operating fur.ds; (d) lack
of formal credit and of organized farmer groups; and (e) lack of rural
infrastructuze. Nevertheless, the abundance and diversity of natural
resources, though inadequately exploited so far, offer a wide r-nge of
possibilities for inducing growth in the sector. In addition Guinea has a
comparative advantage over a wide range of food and export crops even at
prevailing yields, and the low yields offer considerable scope for increasing
production through i-provements in cultivation practices and utilization of
improved crop variet is.
2.04      Aware of this situation, the Government is now turning its
attention to restructuring the agricultural services as a mean of releasing
the sector's potential. However, services such as research and extension
have to be started from scratch and their benefits can only be realized in
the longer term. The farmers' confidence in coope-.atives has to be slowly
regained. For this reason, in the medium-term, the sector is projected to
grow at a rate of 3.82 per annum (below the expected average economic growth
rate of 4.02 per annum). The contributors to this growth are likely to be
food crops, coffee, cotton, fruits, and fisheries. However, if the present
incentive framework can be maintained, and infrastructure and services
improved, a higher rate of growth can be expected in the 1990s, making the
rural sector the main pillar of economic growth.



- 3-
Agricultural Institutions and Services
2.05      MJnistry of Agriculture and Animal Resources.  The rural sector
institutions were reorganized at the end of 1985, when rural activities
(except forestry and hydrology) were entrusted to the then Ministry of Rural
Development, today Ministry of Agriculture and Aniuial Resources (MARA). MARA
is currently overstaffed and most staff are poorly equipped and trained to
carry out their responsibilities. The Government is unde7taking a
reorganization of central and field services to reduce staff numbers and to
upgrade the training of the remaining staff. IDA is helping MARA in this
effort through the study of the Ministry, financed and carried out under the
First Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI), and through staff
evaluation and selection financed under a PPF advance for the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit. The Government is proposing for external
financing an Institutional Reform Project to upgrade staff training, define
work programs, anid equip various services to improve their efficiency.
2.06      Under the new organization, there were five Technical Directorates:
Agriculture, Livestock, Training and Rural Promotion (DGFPR), Civil Works,
and Agricultural Research (DNRA). Agricultural research has recently been
transferred to the State Sec-etariat for Scientific Research (SERS).
Extension services come under DGFPR.  At the prefectoral _evel, the Technical
Directorates, except for research, are under the supervision of a Prefectoral
Director of Rural Development. At the regional level, Rural Development
Regional Inspectors coordinate activities of various services in the
prefectures under their jurisdiction.
2.07      Support Services.  Research activities are few and do not respond
to farmers' needs. Extension services, although physically present at
prefectoral level, are not oDerational for lack of funding and national
strategy. Input supply and distribution are inadeqgate, rural credit is
virtually absent, and rural infrastructure has completely broken down.
Donors' inputs have been restricted to enclave development projects, which in
some cases are successful, but in general have not had a significant and
sustainable impact. The current situation of research and extension services
and the strategy for their development are elaborated in paras 3.01 to 3.08.
2.08      Seed availability is an important constraint on agricultural
production, and the demand for improved seeds exceeds supply. Only about
350 tons of improved conditioned seed are produced under several externally
funded projects including the IDA-financed Gueckedou Agricultural Development
Project (PAG) (Cr. 1635-GUI, November 1985). Limited imports are available
from tiae to time but tend to be rejected by farmers because they are of
untested varieties. There are no private commercial seed operations in
Guinea due to inadequate knowledge, uncertain financial profitability, and
lack of capital and entrepreneurial experience. IDA is assisting in
financing a National Seeds Project (Cr. 1864-GUI), recently approved by the
Board, to select, multiply and condition improved seeds for sale to farmers.
2.09      The use of other production inputs such as fertilizer and chemicals
has been minimal, not only because of limited availability and inadequate
distribution by parastatals responsible for input supnly, but principally



- 4 -
because of inadequate research and extension services. Since 1986, the
Government has decontrolled the procurement of agricultura inputs, but the
private sector has been slow to emerge. This is due in part to the high
distribution cost and in part to farmers' lack of familiarity with the
existence and potential benefits of production inputs. Greater use of
production inputs and increased crop productivity are likely to result from
the invigoration of research and extension services, and reduced distribution
costs through improvements in the transport network.   The Government intends
to transfer responsibility for input supply and distribution to the private
sector and subsequently to close the parastatals concerned.
2.10      Agricultural credit has been rare before and after the closing of
the State Agricultural Credit Bank in 1986, except for credit financed under
rural development projects by external donors. Commercial banks have just
begun to establish branches in rural areas but are not inclined to lend for
productive investments, except for trading, due to lack of security from
farmers. Pilot programs to test the concept of rural banks that mobilize
informal savings and lend to groups of farmers are being established by
various donors in several selected areas.
2.11      Cooperatives.  Before independence, cooperatives exported about
80,000 tons of fruit. During the following 25 years, the same negative
environment that affected extension services (para 3.04) destroyed farmers'
confidence in cooperatives. The cooperative membership was imposed by the
Government and utilized as a means of extracting rent from farmers and of
creating a collectivist movement (FAPA). Consequently, although aware of the
importance of cooperatives to obtain credit and marketing services, farmers
withdrew their active participation. Cooperative development is therefore
delicate because if the State participates, it may be as a response to
farmers' demand. The Government is making an effort to convince farmers of
its intention to facilitate the cooperative movement without direct
interference and, with its reform program launched in late 1985, invited the
rural population to organize independeit cooperatives. Also, the Government
passed a new cooperative law which emphasizes the autonomy of the
cooperatives and gives the Secretariat for Decentralization (SED) an
overseeing role. Under the law, the support and supervision of cooperatives
would be performed by an independent Cooperative Support Agency (SNATC)
(paras 3.09, 4.19 and 5.09). Although there are about 80 cooperatives and
130 pre-cooperative groups at different stages of development, additional
support is necessary to ensure their success and to expand the movement.
2.12      Roads connect the main towns but are generally in poor repair.
Rural roads development is limited and fragmented undeL various externally
funded projects. In its public investment program, the Government gives
priority to the rehabilitation of highways and the building of rural roads;
IDA has assisted in formulating a national program for rural roads
construction. It is now preparing a first five-year program under a Rural
Infrastructure Project.



- 5-
Government Policies and Strategy
2.13      The Government's current objectives in the rural sector are to
promote food security, increase agricultural and fishery exports, and raise
the standard of living of the rural population. To reach these objectives,
the strategy adopted by the Government and supported by IDA aims at: (a)
establishing trade and price policies to reinforce the functioning of a
market-oriented economy; (b) improving investment conditions to attract
private investment in the rural sector; (c) reorganizing agricultural
services to provide national coverage and to reach mass audiences as opposed
to area based services; (d) improving rural infrastructure in productive
areas; and (e) developing MARA's capability in planning, strategy
formulation, investment selection, monitoring, evaluation, and management of
investment programs.
2.14       The investment strategy so far has been to finance area and crop
development projects. These projects have their own organizations, and
little provision has been made for sustaining their activities after project
completion. The Government has recognized this shortcoming and is designing
agricultural support services projects with a national perspective to ensure
an harmonious approach to the provision of services to farmers and to make
them sustainable in the longer term. National organizations would
consolidate and take over structures and services created by donors in
regional development projects, once the donors withdraw and financing ends.
IDA's Sector Strategy and Experience
2.15      IDA's assistance in the Guinean rural sector has emphasized raising
smallholders' incomes while creating durable institutions in both the public
and private sectors. At the policy level, IDA has supported economic and
financial reforms aimed at providing incentives to agricultural production,
liberalizing internal and external trade, freeing producer prices to the
determination of market forces, and enhancing the role of the private sector.
Since February 1986, this strategy has been supported through the Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1659-GUI) and the Special Facility for Sub-Sahara
Africa (Cr. A/II-GUI). A second SAL operation was approved in June 1988. At
project level, IDA has emphasized improvements to agricultural services for
smallholders.
2.16      IDA has participated in the financing of five agricultural
projects, of which two have been completed and one cancelled. The Daboya
Pineapple F:oject was completed in 1981 to satisfactory technical standards
but has experienced financing, input supply and marketing problems since
completion. The Government is now seeking to involve private partners. The
Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI. September 1979) promnted rice
development in the Forest Region and its successful results gave rise to the
PAG which is progressing satisfactorily. The Livestock Development Project
(Cr. 1063-GUI, September 1980) was cancelled in September 1983 due to the
Government's failure to take measures to remove forced marketing of cattle
and to offer adequate incentives to herdsmen for sale of thsir cattle. Most
of the components of this project were subsequently included in the Livestock
Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1752-GUI, August 1986), after the change
of Government in April 1984. Although the project started slowly due to
difficulties in implementing a staff redundancy program, it is progressing



-6-
satisfactorily. An Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 1636-GUI, November
1985) was designed to improve MARA's capability in planning, policy
formulation, and project analysis; it is also progressing in a satisfactory
manner.
2.17      IDA's lending strategy for the medium-term continues to support the
policies outlined above. In addition, it focuses project lending activities
on the improvement of agricultural services at the national level, starting
with the National Seeds Project. A Pilot Extension Program (PPV), started in
July 1986 (paras 3. 5 and 3.06), has provided the basis for the preparation
and appraisal of the proposed project. A Rural Infrastructure Project to
develop rural roads and valley bottoms is under consideration. To support
initiatives in protecting Guinean natural resources, IDA is considering the
financing of a National Forestry Project.
III. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION, AND COOPERATIVES
A.   Agricultural Research
Background and Current Situation
3.01      Before 1958, agricultural research was actively and well conducted
in four stations (Bordo, Foulaya, Koba and Seredou). Research during this
period was diversified with emphasis on food, fruit and industrial crops.
Several varieties of rice, maize, groundnuts and fruits were selected and
disseminated, and some can be used today due to their good agronomic and
cooking characteristics. From 1959 to 1963, resources became scarce and
research activities stagnated. From 1964 to 19_', agricultural research
services were placed under the management of the Ministry of Education and
concentrated on direct production, neglecting research. After 1980, some
research was initiated through the creation of a Rice Development Agency
(ONADER), the membership of Guinea in regional research efforts including the
West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA), and Guinea's participation
in Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development (SAFGRAD). Activities were
also initiated in various rural development projects including the
IDA-financed Gueckedou Rural Development Project (PAG), with small research
components. In 1985, the Government entrusted all research responsibilities
to a newly created National Directorate for Agricultural Research (DNRA) now
under the State Secretariat for Scientific Research (SERS) (para 2.06).
3.02      Despite the numerous institutions and projects involved,
agricultural research activities are minor except under externally financed
projects in which research is crop specific and isolated. Research stations
outside PAG have been short of equipment and operating funds. As a result,
past research has been mothballed, infrastructure inadequately maintained,
records poorly preserved, and conservation of germplasm jeopardized.
Furthermore, there is a duplication of research and extension efforts among
the various regional development projects, and a serious geographic imbalance
of research programs caused by fragmentation into regional projects. In sum,



research has failed to deal adequately with production problems and
environmental degradation. Nevertheless, Guinea is relatively well endowed
with technical agricultural research staff, several research stations still
maintain some acceptable infrastructure, and some gool genetic materials have
been preserved. The update of staff's technical knowledge and provision of
maintenance and operating funds are urgently needed to reinvigorate the
research service and prevent further loss of qualified staff and
deterioration of infrastructure. With proper measures, the research system
could be rehabilitated. Several donors are willing to contribute to the
development of a sound and coordinated research effort. IDA is assisting
this rehabilitation under a recently approved PPF by providing the training
of essential staff, diagnostic surveys, and minimum logistic and operating
cost support.
Research Obiectives and Strategy
3.03      The main objective of research is to provide, as soon as possible,
plant material and production technologies developed in Guinea or elsewhere,
which would increase productivity and narrow the gap between current and
potential agricultural production in Guinea. To achieve this goal, the
strategy would consist of the rehabilitation of the existing research
network, aimed at developing a national, decentralized service staffed and
managed by trained local personnel. It would concentrate on adaptive,
on-farm research to provide rapid answers to farmers' needs.
B.   Agricultural Extension
Background and Current Situation
3.04      For over 20 years, there has been no extension service for
smallholders in Guinea outside area based rural development projects (notably
PAG, the CCCE/EEC Cotton Project at Kankan and the African Development Bank's
Siguiri Rice Project); but these projects have only covered a fraction of the
country. Before 1984, the concept of extension did not exist. State agents
were tax collectors exploiting farmers, thereby creating a sentiment of
distrust. After 1984, responsibility for extension was passed on to MARA,
but no national strategy was designed; there was no national coordination,
and several structures and unrelated methods were used within confined
geographical areas or on specific crops. However, the most important
shortcoming was that messages, when available, were disseminated by
individuals at the prefectoral level rather than through mass transfer to
farmers. Consequently, current efforts are poorly coordinated and will
probably be non-sustainable once project funds are no longer available.
3.05      It was the PAG, started in 1980, that first convinced the
Government that peasant farmers could produce surpluses for the market. The
project showed that extension services, run along the lines of the Training
and Visit (T&V) system, and raral engineering services designed to improve
water management in small peasant rice fields can be very productive. Faced
with this positive experience but also with the problems of distrust and
inefficiency of extension services (para 3.04), the Government launched, in
July 1986, a Pilot Extension Program (PPV) using the T&V system of extension



- 8 -
in 6 of its 33 prefectures. This action was intended to test (a) the ability
of Guinea's managers to operate an extension system according to a carefully
programmed work schedule, the standard T&V system; (b) the technical capacity
and attitude of field extension workers to teach and transfer messages to
farmers; (c) the ability to locate and train Subject Matter Specialists in an
environment with limited information; and (d) the reactions of farmers,
considering that there was a history of government agents exploiting peasants
(para 3.04).
3.06      The geographic scope of the PPV was to be relatively modest,
covering 20-252 of the districts in any given prefecture. A total of 123
districts were covered. IDA provided a PPF advance of US$0.32 million to
execute the program. The Government began training staff in September 1986,
with the help of specialists from IDA. In July 1987, a Bank mission reviewed
progress and concluded that, despite a lack of equipment: (a) the national
and prefectoral management of PPV was in place and had shown its ability to
execute a production extension program based on the T&V system; (b) farmers
had shown willingness to work with extension workers who follow good work
schedules and have meaningful technical advice for them; (c) a small but
sJignificant number of technical themes for major annual crops has given
demonstrable results (Annex 1); and (d) othe.r projects (e.g., GTZ-financed
Rural Development Project in Kissidougou and the Rural Development in the
Fouta Djallon to be financed by IFAD) now intend to use the T&V system.
Therefore, the mission proposed to add 88 new districts to those already
included in PPV and to expand the number of prefectures covered from 6 to 10
in 1988/89.
3.07      Since the benefits of PPV in the field have met expectations, MARA
would now like to apply the system at the national level so that low risk
research results can be transferred quickly and with modest means to a
greater segment of the farming population.
Extension Obis-tives and Strategy
3.08      The main objectives of extension are to (a) help identify farmer
needs; (b) assist in the formulation of relevant research programs; (c)
ensure the utilization of research results; and (d) provi.de farmers' feedback
to research on the acceptability of technologies. To achieve these
objectives, the strategy would consist of the rehabilitation of the extension
system by developing a national, decentralized, low cost and sustainable
extension service built on the PPV experience. The service would be staffed
by adequately trained local personnel and would emphasize coordination among
research, extension, and farmers.
C.   Cooperative Development
3.09      Aware of the importance of farmer organizations (para 2.11) the
Government has recently decided to entrust the role of supporting cooperative
development to an independent cooperative support agency (SNATC). This
service would be the predecessor organization of a national federation of
cooperatives and its initial activities would be financed under the proposed
project. The main objective of supporting a cooperative development movement
is to facilitate the establishment and evolution of a network of rural



- 9 -
organizations which would provide their members with inputs, marketing,
savings and credit services. The strategy would consist of establishing a
cooperative support agency to promote existing pre-cooperatives (farmers and
wome:, groups) and cooperatives, and facilitate the establishment of new
groups and new cooperatives.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General
Project Rationale
4.01      Guinea's overall economic growth continues to depend heavily on
"griculture. The Government has made considerable progress in creating a
favorable economic environment (para 2.13) and its attention is now turned to
specific agricultural services. It aims at creating and rehabilitating
priority services at the national level to complement policy measures in
filling the gap between current and potential agricultural production. To
achieve this goal, action is needed to rehabilitate the research and
extension services, and the existing cooperatives, and to support new groups
of farmers who can supply marketing and credit services. Such actions are
however constrained by shortage of finance, institutional weakness, farmers'
distrust, and the need for Guinean staff to develop research and management
skills (paras 2.11, 3.02 and 3.04).
4.02      IDA's involvement in the project is regarded by the Government as
important in helping to develop one national rather than several regional
agricultural research and extension services. Other donors have focused
their efforts on area based services, ignoring the need to ensure services
over the entire country and sustain them once donor financing ends. Only IDA
is interested and able to assist in establishing a sustainable national
service, which will also help coordinate the various donor approaches and
eventually prevent the emergence of programs outside the national strategy.
The project is fully consistent with IDA's assistance strategy for Guinea in
that it would build upon existing organizations, plant material and
technological improvements in the region (Annex 1), available infrastructure
and staff, and ongoing pilot programs (paras 2.11, 3.02 and 3.05); it would
provide a catalyst for improvement in the contribution of several other
donors (paras 3.02 and 3.05) and would rely heavily upon the closest possible
links with the main recipient of the effort - the small farmer. It is also
an essential link in the chain of agricultural services projects financed by
IDA in Guinea, which includes the Agricultural Services and the National
Seeds Projects as well as projects under preparation (para 2.16). Also, the
Bank has a model in the T&V system, which is working well in other countries.
Proiect Concept and Obiectives
4.03      The proposed project is the first five-year phase of a long-term
program during which agricultural services would receive external support..
Its main objective would be to assist farmers who operate at a very low level
of technology in improving the productivity of their farming systems. This
objective would be accomplished through: (a) providing the support necessary



- 10 -
to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate a National Research and Extension
Program; (b) funding and expanding commodity research consistent with sector
development objectives; (c) rapid testing of locally and regionally available
crop varieties and production technologies; (d) adequate transfer and
diffusion of these through a system of mass extension sustainable in the
long run by the Government; (e) creation and consolidation of links among
research, extension and farmers; (f) development of an institutional
framework for promoting farmer organizations; and (g) support to the above
actions through a major training program so as to develop the Cuinean
capacity for designing, managing and implementing research ana extension
operations. The project is designed so that priority is given to the
diagnosis of farmers' needs and the early development of improved techniques
which would respond readily to these needs.
Proiect Description
4.04      The project would support, over a five-year period, the
rehabilitation of the national research apparatus and the establishment of a
sustainable extension system. It would be national in scope, involve several
donors interested in supporting the services, and include the following
components:
(a)  Applied Research.  Support to six research centers located in the
main agro-ecological regions, to facilitate the identification,
selection, and testing of local and introduced plant materials and
production technologies.
(b)  Adaptive Research.  Establishment of Research and Development (R&D)
teams for survey and analysis c' farmers' constraints; and of an
off-station and on-farm research network to carry out trials to
test adaptability and acceptability of crop varieties, production
technologies and different farming systems for smallholders in the
different agro-ecological regions of Guinea.
(c)  Training.  Provision of local and overseas task-oriented training
in commodity and cropping systems research, research and extension
methodologies and management.
(d)  Extension Services.  Strengthening and reorganization of MARA's
extension services to ensure proper assessment of farmers' needs
and adequate delivery of messages.
(e)  Cooperative Development.  Support to an independent Cooperative
Support Agency (SNATC), to create the neccssary conditions for a
sound and sustainable cooperative movement which would ensure
marketing and credit services to farmers.
(f)  Monitoring and Evaluation. Support to MARA and SERS for overseeing
project impact through the creation of small M&E cells.
(g)  Project Preparation Fund.  Funding to prepare and start other
projects in the sector.



- 11 -
(h) Institutional StrengtheninR. Strengthening of the capacity of the
research and extension structures for the planning and management
of research and extension activities.
B.   Detailed Features
4.05      The refinement and better definition of the research and extension
programs and of farmer groups requirements necessary for a coherent approach
to farmers' problems would be sought by means of diagnostic surveys, on-farm
research, training of key research and extension staff, and support to
farmer groups. Farmers would actively participate in most stages of the
process from conducting on-farm trials to assessing the benefits of new
developments and providing feedback through direct interaction with
research/extension staff and participation in an advisory committee (para
5.04). This work would permit the assessment of farmers' preferences and
production cor.straints; the identification of available technologies and
plant materials suitable to Guinea; and the launching of operations and
programs with sufficient, adequately trained staff. Some of these surveys
and training have already started under PPF funding.
4.06      Applied research would seek to verify the performance of new plant
materials and technologies in the various agro-ecological conditions of
DNRA research stations, off-station sites, and farmers' fields. Research
programs on off-station sites would include farming systems and crop trials
to both maximize production and assist in environmental protection. Adaptive
research in on-farm trials would be designed to validate and adjust on
farmers' fields the technical recommendations derived from applied research
i'nd the findings of diagnostic surveys. Work would concentrate primarily on
removing major technical constraints for the production of rice and other
important cereals such as fonio, maize, root crops, and to a lesser extent,
f. it crops, coffee, and oil palm. These commodities have been selected on
the basis of area planted (Annex 2), economic importance, and indicative
demand and potential.
1.  Applied Researcb
4.07      On the basis of the results of diagnostic surveys (Working
Paper No. 1), applied research would be conducted in six selected research
centers (Annex 3). The work in the centers would concentrate in order of
priority, on (a) testing varieties and production technologies already
available, which could be readily transferred to the field; (b) providing
solutions to problems encountered in the field which require statistically
valid and well controlled research; and (c) developing alternative rotation
and cropping systems for problem regions (e.g., Fouta Djallon and the Forest
Region). The main thrust would be to produce rapid results to solve farmers'
problems, test them in farmers' fields and evaluate them socio-economically.
4.08      Research would be conducted by existing staff who would undergo
appropriate training (para 4.12). These staff would be supported by
international orgatixzations, such as CIRAD, WARDA, IITA, etc., which would
provide assistance with plant materials and production technologies and



- 12 -
advise on the organization and conduct of research under contractual
arrangements in specific situations. The stations selected are Koba, Foulaya
and Kilissi in Guinee Maritime, Bareng in Middle Guinea, Bordo in Upper
Guinea, and Seredou in the Forest Region. Koba, on the coastal plains, would
be concerned with rice and possibly other food crops, whereas Bareng, Bordo
and Kilissi would deal with the whole range of annual food crops. Foulaya
would be largely involved in fruit trees but with a limited food crop program
(basically root/tuber crops). Seredou, in the distinct forest zone
environment would be concerned with both food and perennial crops. Details
of the stations and their crop development responsibilities are given in
Annex 3.
4.09      The project would finance a minimum of civil works consisting of
office and laboratory facilities, limited housing for stations distant from
urban centers, and farm infrastructure. It would also finance farm and
laboratory equipment, vehicles and operating costs, incremental staff
salaries, and travel allowances. Financing would also be provided for short-
and long-term technical assistance (paras 5.10 to 5.12).
2.   Adaptive Research Network
4.10      Off-station, adaptive t:ials including both simple replicated
experiments on distinct sites set up by research/extension staff and tests on
farmers' fields (conducted by farmers) would be given priority under the
project. As the precursors to the establishment and development of the
adaptive trials network, diagnostic surveys would be conducted in four
ecological zones within the operating area of each center. These surveys
would be directed, and the results analyzed by, multi-disciplinary teams
which for each center would consist of agronomists, agricultural economists,
and sociologists. Thus, farmers' criteria would be given major emphasis and
on-station research would be reoriented as appropriate.
4.11      Trials would be carried out at strategic points in each ecological
region of the country (Annex 4) directly linked to, implemented and
controlled by research and extension staff. Initially about 20 off-station
sites would be developed preferably in areas adjacent to the stations but
representative of agro-ecological differences; in addition, six sites would
be established within the centers. About four tests on farmers fields
(on-farms trials) per off-station site would be conducted with direct
participation of farmers. The linkage among research, extension, and farmers
would be ensured through research and extension staff working with farmers in
the on-farm trials program. Details of diagnostic surveys and on-farm
research as well as locations of off-station and on-farm trials are given in
Annex 4 and Working Paper No. 1. Financing would be provided for materials,
vehicles, incremental staff salaries, and operating costs for the surveys and
on-farm trials.
3.   Training
4.12      The main areas of training for research staff are management and
budgeting, research methodologies, specific disciplines (soil fertility, pest
control, etc.), cropping systems research, and statistical and socio-economic
evaluation of resul-s. Local and overseas task-oriented training would be



- 13 -
provided for about 251 staff, of which 19 are research directors and
managers, 14 administrators, 33 generalist researchers, 61 Fpecialists, and
124 technicians. A systematic training program for the five years of the
project has been prepared (Working Paper No. 1;. The rigorous enforcement of
this program is of critical importance for executing the research program
under consideration, and for that reason national and international
organizations including WARDA, IITA, CNEARC, and CIRAD have been contacted to
provide specific training on site and overseas. An emergency training
program is being implemented under PPF financing.
4.13      Extension staff would be trained on management and budgeting,
extension methodologies, and task oriented topics primarily on site. Local
training would be carried out in four areas (Gueckedou, Tindo, Banban and
Pita) utilizing existing infrastructure except for Pita whLere a simple
classroom would be constructed. Training for field extension workers (FEWs),
other than the regular fortnight sessions typical of the T&V, would be
carried out by Subjec. Matter Specialists (SMSs) and/or visiting research
staff. Training of the SMSs would be carried out annually at the nearest
research center.  Six three-month s-ssions of overseas training in specific
areas would also be provided for key counterpart staff. Funds would be
available for 19 man-months of consultants to train staff in Guinea in areas
such as training for trainers, extension methodology, diffusion methods, and
preparation of audiovisual material.
4.   Extension Services
4.14      The project would organize and strengthen the extension services by
supporting and gradually expanding the Pilot Extension Program (PPV)
activities; it would also provide the necessary assistance at headquarters
level to manage the national service. The typical T&V field organizational
structure and ratios between staff/extension workers and farmers would be
used in the project with local modifications deriving from experience in
implementing the PPV. The average ratio of FEW to farmers would initially be
1:250 to 1:300, but would be modified under the project as appropriate and
significantly reduced as the system becomes known and established. Under the
T&V system, extension agents regularly visit farmers on their own land. They
provide messages which farmers put into practice on demonstration plots or in
their own fields. The original message is then spread to the farming
community. No inputs or credit are provided, and the messages are linked to
crop cycles and initially emphasize simple cultivation practices (improved
spacing, planting rates, timely weeding, etc). The system ensures an
efficient mass transfer of technology and proper feedback from farmers.
4.15      The PPV initiated activities in 6 prefectures and 123 districts in
1987, with a plan for expansion to 10 prefectures and 275 districts in 1988
and 1989. In the five-year period, the project would expand the managed
extension service to a total of 16 prefectures or about 48X of the total.
At full development, the system would directly involve at least 50? of the
farming population in these prefectures. Details on population by
prefectures, rural families, participating staf., and phase-in involvement
program are presented in Annexes 5 and 6 (see also IBRD Map No. 20896).



- 14 -
4.16      As in most other African countries, women play a key role in
Guinea's agriculture and consequently in food production both as heads of
rural households and as an important labor force in crop production
activities. They also suffer from the usual problems of poverty and are
often disadvantaged by tradition which limits their capacity to earn income,
access information and productive resources, and control time and resources.
Some ways of addressing women's needs are to ensure that they are chosen as
contact farmers or appointed as extension agents, that messages relevant to
their activities (food crops, crop storage) are designed, and that women
groups are used as contact points.
4.17      The T&V system seems to be well suited to reach women farmers.
Organized groups of women farmers are more willing to meet regularly faith
extension agents than individual women. Also they tend to be more ready to
adopt extension messages and more effective in channelling information. In
order to ensure proper coverage of women farmers and given their important
role in Guinean agriculture, the project would employ qualified women in key
positions such as high level extension officers at headquarters and extension
workers at prefecture level, and give them adequate logistic support.
4.18      The project would fund a minor infrastructure program at
headquarters and prefecture levels (office and classroom space) and the
logistic support for field and headquartcrs' staff in terms of vehicles,
motorcycles, audiovisual and other teaching equipment, and development of
demonstration plots and operating costs, including incremental salaries and
indemnities for local staff.
5.   Cooperative Development
4.19      The Government intends to rely increasingly on the private sector
for agricultural support services such as input supply, marketing, and credit
and savings. Since the traditional private sector is slowly developing and
participating in agricultural services, farmer groups and cooperatives are
expected to play a major role. The project would fund selected investments
and operating expenditures to facilitate the start-up operations of a
National Cooperative Support Agency (SIlATC), including a cooperative
management specialist. This agency woul.d support an essentially volunteer
cooperative movement to become a service agency as opposed to a regulatory
body so the interest would be in field support rather than administration.
SNATC would provide assistance to formal cooperatives and informal farmer
groups (para 3.09). The project support would be complemented by financing
from other donors.
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      The project M&E system would be set up to provide MARA and SERS
with information on the effectiveness of research and extension services.
Data collection and monitoring of these services would not be a cumbersome
operation; base line surveys would not be conducted. Data collection would
be carried out through mechanisms built in the research and extension
organizations, e g., log books, frequent visits by supervisors to farmers,
R&D activities, without significantly increasing their work load. Initially,
simple surveys would be conducted to quantitatively determine the level of



- 15 -
technology used by farmers and farmers' needs (part of diagnostic surveys).
This would provide qualitative information not only to evaluate impact but
also to plan research on the basis of farmers' needs. The impact of the
project would then be determined by subsequent surveys aimed at assessing the
development and adoption rate of technologies. The project would finance
incremental costs of the National Directorate for Agricultural Research
(DNRA) and the Extension Unit in MARA to carry out this work (para 5.13).
7.   Project Preparation Fund
4.21      In view of the shortage of PPF funding, funds have been included in
the project to complete (Forestry/Environzment Project) and initiate (Rural
Infrastructure and Export Crops Rehabilitation Projects) preparatory
activities in these forthcoming projects. The Forestry/Environment Project
will need complementary funding to complete a forestry inventory and other
studies needed for start-up. The Rural Infrastructure Project aimed at
assisting the Government in implementing its policies in the sub-sector,
e.g., institutional strengthening and specific investment programs, has been
identified and requires further preparation work to be funded under this
project. The new Export Crops Rehabilitation Project is being identified and
would include production support and marketing services to farmers. The Tree
Crops Sector Review has been completed, and funding provided under this
project would ensure preparatien. Ly the end of 1988.
8.  Institutional Strengthening
4.22      The project would finance resident experts, short-term consultants,
and logistic support to (a) strengzhen tile capacity of MARA and State
Secretariat for Scientific Research (SERS) to plan, administer, monitor, and
evaluate research and extension programs, and (b) advise and train local
staff within specific technical areas. Details of the structure, functions
and technical assistance proposed are given in paras 5.01 to 5.12.
C.   Prolect Costs and Financing
Cost Est.mates
4.23      The cost of the propesed five-year project is estimated at FG 1.37
billion (US$30.9 million), including a foreign cost component of US$21.6
million, representing 702 of total costs. Project costs include activities
financed under the PPF, amounting to US$0.87 million, which would be
refinanced under the Credit.
4.24      Base costs are given in January 1988 prices.  Physical
contingencies of 15? have been allowed on building costs and 102 on all
project costs except fcr personnel, technical assistance and short-term
consultants. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs based on the
Bank's projections have been included at an average of 3Z for 1989 and 1990
and 42 from 1991 to 1993. Price contingencies on local costs, based o" the
Bank's forecast of domestic inflation, are 7.8Z for 1989, 7.7Z for 1990, 4.6?
for 1991, and 2.8Z for 1992 and 1993. Total price contingencies amount to
14.4Z of base costs. Project costs are summarized below and details are
given in Annexes 7 and 8 and Working Paper No. 2.



- 16 -
Proiect Cost Summary
Local   Foreign      Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE   Base
Component                --------GF million-------  -----US$ million -----    Z   Costs
Applied Research            884     2,718      3,602    2.0       6.1    8.1   75       3'
Adaptive Research           548       706      1,254    1.2       1.6    2.8   57       11
Training                   292      1,185      1,477    0.6       2.7    3.3   82      13
Field Extension
Services                  831      1,822      2,653    1.9       4.0    5.v   68      24
Cooperatives                 18       272        290              0.6    0.6   92      02
Monitoring & Evaluation    14          61         75       -      0.2    0.2  100       00
Project Prep. Fund           97       348        445    0.2       0.8    1.0   80      04
Institutional
Strengthening             322      1,213      1,535    0.8       2.7    3.5   80      14
Total Base Costs         3,006      E,325    11,331    6.7       18.7   25.4   74    100
Physical
Contingencies            305        476        781    0.7       1.1    1.8   61       7
Price
Contingencies            843        787      1,630    1.9       1.8    3.7   47      15
Total Project Costs a/  4,154       9,588    13,742    9.3       21.6   30.9   70    122
(includ. Taxes)                                                 ====   ====
Taxes                    0,416         -       0.416    0.9        -      0.9
Total Project Costs
(Net of Taxes)         3,738      9,588    13,326    8.4       21.6   30.0
a/ Include US$0.87 million for two PPFs.
Proiect Preparation Facility
4.25       Two advances under the PPF were awarded for US$320,000 in July
1986 and US$550,000 in December 1987. The first PPF financed the start up of
PPV in six prefectures, and the second PPF financed limited operating costs
for the main research centers as well as an initial training program for
research staff.
Financing Plan
4.26      The financing of project costs, including taxes, would be shared
in the following amounts and proportions:



- 17-
Financing Plan by Category of Goods and Services
IDA    FED  FAC   IFAD  Government  Total  Taxes
------------------(US$ million)-----------------
Civil Works                  2.1    1.4           0.4     0.4         4.3    0.4
Vehicles                     3.2    0.9           0.1                 3.8
Equipment                    1.4    1.1           0.5                 3.0
Technical Assistance         2.8    0.8  1.6                          5.2
Consultants                  1.1    0.1                               1.2
Personnel (incremental)      1.3    0.3          0.1      1.0         2.7    0.2
Training                     1.3    0.6                               1.9
Project Prep. Fund           1.0                                      1.0
Operating Costs              4.2    1.3           0.8     1.5         7.8    0.3
Net Financing Requirements 18.4    6.1  1.6    1.9        2.9        30.9    0.9
e==~=    ===  .=     ===      ==         ===   e==
Share of Financing (Z)
With Taxes                 59.5   19.7  5.2    6.2       i.4        1002
Without Taxes              61.3   20.3  5.3    6.4       6.7        1002
4.27      The proposed IDA credit of US$18.4 million would finance about 612
of project costs (net of taxes) including US$4.6 million of local costs. The
GoveLrnment would mainly finance incremental local staff salaries, operating
costs and taxes. The credit funds for the cooperatives component would be
granted from the Government to SNATC. External financing by FED, FAC and
IFAD, would be under parallel arrangements. The proposed FED grant,
estimated at US$6.1 million (20' of project costs), would finance all costs
of Koba and Bordo research centers, the cost of adaptive research within the
areas of influence of these two centers, and ali training costs of their
local staff. In addition, FED would finance two long-term technical
specialists in maize for Bordo and in rice for Koba, as well as short-term
consultants in specific technical areas (para 5.12). FAC would finance
technical assistance, vehicles and operating costs for a total grant
estimated at US$1.6 million 05Z of project costs). IFAD would finance all
invesfment and operating costs of Bareng research station and will help
finance Research and Development costs up to US$0.57 million.
Financial Management Svstems
4.28      The project would maintain accounting records for project
activities, consistent with sound accounting practices which would reflect
fairly, in accordance with international accounting principles, the overall
financial situation of the pro:ect. It would also keep separate detailed
ccsts records for the research, extension, and cooperatives components. A
microcomputer would be used to record and consolidate projec_ expenditures as
well as prepare and monitor the project annual budget. Budgets and work
plans would be prepared for review by the Research/Extension Committee (paras
5.04 and 5.06). Approved annual budgets for research ,id extension would be
submitted to IDA for review and comments two months prior to the beginning of



- 18 -
the year.  Measures to improve financial      _-ment and accountability
within the project would ir.clude strengthening the accounting sections of
DNRA, MARA, and the research centers by recruiting qualified local staff and
either a financial manager or the services of a qualified accounting firm
already in place. The internationally recruited fina"cial manager or the
accounting firm, would (a) establish, no later than Jhi,c 30, 1989, a closing
balance sheet as of December 31, 1988, for each research center and the PPV;
and (b) design and set up a financial management system for project
activities. Afterwards, the financial manager or the accounting firm would
be responsible for consolidating the accounts and preparing disbursement
applications and records. Assurances on these conditions were obtained
during negotiations (para 7.01(a)).
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
4.29      Project financial statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
would be audited annually in accordance with internationally accepted
auditing standards by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year. Progress reports on project implementation would be prepared
by DNRA and MARA and submitted to IDA twice a year, within three months after
the half-year review, until project completion. Progress reports would
include: (a) project achievements compared with the agreed annual program;
(b) actual cost for carrying out the program compared with cost projected
during appraisal; and (c) comments on key problems and future priorities and
needs. The Planning Bureau, BSD, would submit an annual evaluation report on
the research and extension programs and a Project Completion Report within
six months after project completion. Assurances on the above were obtained
at negotiations (para 7.01(a)).
4.30      The proposed programming and budgeting procedure (para 4.28) Is
aimed at providing the heads of research and extension, and directors of
research stations, with a certain autonomy in carrying out their tasks within
defined and approved national programs. This exercise would be worthless if
a priori control from MARA and SERS were enforced as it is with most ongoing
projects. Consequently, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a)
the Director of DNRA and the Director of the Extension Unit would be
authorized to directly engage on expenditures up to the limit for which
Government procurement code would be applicable; (b) they would be authorized
to effect payments out of IDA's Special Account for up to GF 50 million; (c)
the Directors of DNRA, the Extension Unit and SNATC would aiso be authorized
to effect direct payments out of the local currency Project Accounts (para
4.34) up to the limit of the initial deposit on each respective account; and
(d) the Directors of the Research Centers would be allowed to open, maintain
and replenish accounts in FG on a commercial bank, to ensure funds are
available to cover the operating costs of the centers (para 7.01(b)). The
submission of a satisfactory action plan for compliance with the Government's
debt reporting obligations to the World Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (para 7.02(a)).
Procurement
4.31      The relatively small civil works program (about 20 offices, repairs
and laboratories at 18 different locations) which would be scattered
geographically is not suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB)



- 19 -
and would be procured by Local Competitive Bidding in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for goods and civil
works below US$30,000 may be procured through Local Shopping; the aggregate
value would not exceed US$1.5 million. Contracts for goods exceeding
US$100,000 would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
and those below US$100,000 but above US$30,0'J would be procured under local
competitive bidding (LCB); the aggregate value would not exceed US$1.0
million. Procurement for less than US$30,000 would be on the basis of
quotations from at least three reputable suppliers. To the extent possible,
procurement of goods would be grouped to allow for ICB. All procurement
decisions in excess of US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
Technical assistance and consultants financed by IDA would be selected in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Procurement arrangements are summarized
below; all figures include contingencies.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method*
Other
ocurement Element              ICB        LCB        Other         source a/  Total
- -------------------(US$ million)-------------------
vil Works                                 2.0          0.1           2.2         4.3
(2.0)       (0.1)                     (2.1)
icles                         2.6        0.4          0.2           0.6         3.8
(2.6)      (0.4)        (0.2)                     (3.2)
ipment                        1.1        0.3                        1.6         3.0
(1.1)      (0.3)                                  (1.4)
:hnical Assistance
nd Short-Term Consult.                                 3.9           2.5         6.4
(3.9) b/                 (3.9)
rsonnel                                                2.2  c/       0.5 c/      2.7
(1.3)                    (1-3)
aining                                                 1.3  d/       0.6 d/      1.9
(1.3)                    (1-3)
ject Prep. Fund                                       1.0                       1.0
(1.0) e/                 (1.0)
erating Costs                                          5.0  f/       2.8         7.8
(4.2)                    (4.2)
tal Costs                      3.7        2.7         13.7          10.8        30.9
(3.7)      (2.7)       (12.0)                    (18.4)
Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing.
Parallel financing by other donors would be under their own procurement procedures.
Technical Assistance and Consultants will be procured following IDA
Guidelines for use of consultants.
Local salary premium.
Local and international travel costs.
Procurement elements to be detined (para 4.21).
Operating costs for vehicles, travel and office expenses, following acceptable
government procurement procedures.



- 20 -
D1siursements
4.32      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of six and
a half years, which corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for
Guinea (Annex 9). IDA's contribution to operating costs and personnel would
be on a declining percentage, allowing the Government to build up to its post
project funding responsibilities. The credit allocated to the cooperatives
component would be disbursed against proof that SNATC has been created with a
structure and organization satisfactory to IDA (para 5.09). Disbursements
would be made against SOEs for all operating costs and all contracts
equivalent to less than US$50,000. Documentation of SOEs would be held for
annual review by IDA supervision missions. The disbursement categories would
be as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Percentage of
expenditures,
Category                                Amounts                    to be financed
(in US$ million)
1.  Civil Works                             1.9                        100Z
2.  Vehicles Equipment                      4.0                        100?
3.  Technical Assistance                    3.5                        100Z
4.  Fellowship Seminars                     1.0                        100?
5.  Operating Costs                         4.8                      90Z in PY1
85Z in PY2
752 in PY3
50Z in PY4
40? in PY5
6.  Goods/Serv. for Project Preparation   0.9                          100Z
7.  Refinancing PPF                         0.9
8.  Unallocated                             1.4
Total                              18.4
Revolving Fund
4.33      In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account (SA)
would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA with an authorized



- 21 -
allocation of US$500,000 (four-month average of all eligible expenditures).
The account would be established immediately after credit effectiveness
through the withdrawal of this amount from the IDA credit. IDA would
replenish the account on receipt of evidence of disbursements from the SA for
eligible expenditures. Monthly bank statements of the SA would accompany
replenishment requests.
4.34      To ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project, the
Government would open three local currency Project Accounts (PAs) for the
project at a commercial bank in Conakry.  Requirements in local currency
would be established twice a year and would form the basis upon which the
local currency account would be maintained. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government's portion of incremental funding would be
deposited in the local currency PAs; the accounts would be replenished
quarterly and in advance on the basis of cash requirement forecasts, so as to
meet local expenditures for the next three months (para 7.01(c)). Opening of
the PAs and initial deposit by the Government of GF 55 million (GF 25 million
for Research, and GF 30 million for Extension), equivalent to ha'lf of its
first year contribution in local funds, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 7.02).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Research, extension, and cooperatives would each maintain a
separate organization under the supervision of three different ministries;
budgets and accounts would be prepared and maintained separately. Management
would also be separate. Nevertheless, strict coordination would be needed to
ensure adequate impact and this would be attained through an ad hoc committee
(para 5.04) and various measures (5.08).
Research
5.02      Research services would be the responsibility of the National
Directorate for Agricultural Research (DNRA), directly under the State
Secretary, State Secretariat for Scientific Research (SERS).  The current
structure of DNRA was established in June 1987 on the basis of
recommendationr, made by a consultant firm hired to advise the Government on
the reorganization and restructuring of MARA (Annex 10).  DNRA would enjoy
autonomy in decision making.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
while within the SERS, the Director, DNRA, would be directly under the State
Secretary, SERS, and that DNRA would maintain at least the status of a
national directorate and the required autonomy of action, and that the
research centers would remain under the tutelage of the Director, DNRA (para
7.01(d)).  The suitability of this structure would be evaluated two years
after credit effectiveness (para 7.01(e)).  Until then, structural changes
would be made only after consultation with IDA.
5.03      At the central level, DNRA would be responsible for policy
determination, direction, coordination, overall budgeting and control of all
research activities carried out as part of the project as well as in other
projects involved in research. At the local level, the Directors of the
research centers would be responsible for resource allocation and control.
The centers' technical staff, organized in multi-disciplinary teams by



- 22 -
different commodities and programs, would prepare working programs and
budgets to be submitted annually to DNRA headquarters where they would be
consolidated. For each commodity group, there would be a national research
leader located at the main center for research into that commodity. This
arrangement would ensure a coherent approach to the particular program and
minimize duplication of effort. A well designed action plan has been
prepared following this arrangement (Annex 11).
5.04      The research program would respond to government priorities.  It
would truly reflect farmers' needs identified through diagnostic surveys and
the close interaction between staff and farmers when conducting adaptive
research. The program and budgets would be reviewed annually (in October) by
a National Research/Extension Committee, prior to submission to IDA for
comments. The Committee, in consultation with IDA, would advise DNRA and the
centers' Directors on formulation of research objectives, priorities and
programs. The Committee would have an important representation of national
development and extension specialists and farmers, to ensure emphasis on
adaptive research programs directed toward achieving early and easily
adoptable results; it would be established with membership satisfactory to
IDA before March 31, 1989. Assurances on the above were obtained at
negotiations (para 7.01(f)).
Extension
5.05      The Directorate for Training and Rural Promotion (DGFPR) has
overall responsibility for country-wide extension work through its Extension
Division (DMVA) (organization chart is presented in Annex 12). However,
because the administrative reform of MARA is not yet completed, direct
implementation of the Extension component of the project would continue to be
the responsibility of the Director of the Extension Unit (ex-Pilot Extension
Project (PPV)) who would report directly to the Secretary General, MARA.
This Director has the decision making and management powers of a Directorate,
which it would become on completion of MARA's administrative reform.
5.06      At the central level, the Director of the Extension Unit assisted
by specialized staff and advised by a National Research/Extension Committee
(para 5.04) would be responsible for the planning, budgeting, organization
and coordination of all extension activities. As for research (para 5.04),
the National Research/Extension Committee would meet annually to review
programs and budgets prior to submission to IDA for comments. Assurances on
the above were obtained at negotiations (para 7.01(f)).
5.07      At the local level, the extension services would be organized
utilizing the PPV experience and adapted to the basic T&V principles modified
according to the different socio-economic conditions. In each region,
the basic field management unit would be at the prefecture level, with a
Sector Head in charge of the Technical Supervisors, each of whom would be
responsible for 8-10 Extension Workers. Subject Matter Specialists, in each
technical topic, would, in addition to training the Extension Workers and the
Technical Supervisors, be closely linked with the research program.
Initially, during implementation of the PPV, each Extension'Worker was
assigned one district, subdivided and visited on a fixed day every two weeks.
During execution of the project, Extension Workers would be assigned based on



- 23 -
number of rural families at a ratio of Extension Worker/farmer of 1:200-300
which would be modified during project implementation to account for
population densities, settlement patterns, type of farming system, and
communication facilities.
Research/Extension/Farmers Linkage
5.08      The essential linkage between research and extension which would
provide sound research results and a proper delivery and feedback system
would be ensured through the National Research/Extension Committee and the
joint work of research and extension staff and farmers in carrying out field
trials (adaptive research). This would be reinforced by a contractual
arrangement between MARA and SERS through which (a) the control of adaptive
research activities would be under the responsibility of the Director of the
Extension Unit; (b) research and extension staff would jointly design the
research program; (c) staff of research stations would be responsible for
developing the off-station trials, while extension staff would be responsible
for overseeing the on-farm trials conducted by farmers; and (d) funding to
carry out this research would be controlled by the Director of the Extension
Unit, who would, based on an agreed work program, contract the services of
DNRA to help with the execution and evaluation of results. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the contractual arrangement would be signed
before June 30, 1989 (para 7.01(g)).
Cooperatives
5.09      Cooperative development would be under the overall supervision of
SNATC's Board of directors. The Board would be composed of the Secretary of
State for Decentralization, the Secretary General MAU and representatives of
farmers and donor agencies. The Board would delegate most of its authority
to SNATC management committee composed of the director and two section heads.
Initially, SNATC would have three sectionc: (a) assistance to cooperatives
and groups; (b) training and studies; and (c) evaluation and control.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SNATC operate on the basis of
the organization and structure described above (paras 4.19 and 7.01(h)); its
creation before June 30, 1989, and the initial deposit by Government of GF 10
million in local funds, would be a condition for disbursement against the
cooperative component (para 7.03). The Secretariat for Decentralization
(SED) would have an overseeing role and would formally approve and register
cooperatives under the exclusive recommendation of SNATC; it would also be
responsible for monitoring and evaluating SNATC's performance. Programming,
budgeting and procurement would be done by the local director SNATC supported
by an internationally recruited cooperative management specialist. Further
details on cooperative development and SNATC are presented in Working Paper
No. 3.
Institutional Strenatheninz
5.10      To assist in the initial stages of programming, organization,
accounting and procurement, as well as in providing advice on specific
technical areas and in training local staff to manage the services, the
project would, during a five-year period, provide about 29 man-years (19 for
research, 7 for extension, and 3 for cooperatives) of internationally
recruited specialists and about 32 man-months of short-term consultants.



- 24 -
Part of this assistance is already in post, financed by FAC who will continue
financing this and additional assistance throughout the life of the project.
FED would also finance technical assistance. Details are given in Annex 13.
In all cases, the role of the internationally recruited -taff would be of an
advisory and training nature. The services would continue to be managed by
capable local staff, entirely responsible for implementation. In addition,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that all technical local staff would
undergo a technical test before being engaged for a particular program; the
test would be carried out before June 30, 1989 (para 7.01(i)).
5.11      The central research ard extension structures would be supported by
internationally recruited technical staff including: (a) a Research Manager
to assist the Director DNRA to conceptualize, plan, review and control
research programs; (b) an Agricultural Socio-Economist to assist in
diagnostic surveys, socio-economic evaluation of production alternatives and
on-farm research; (c) an Extension Specialist to help organize and manage the
service; (d) a Training Specialist to organize the major training program for
research and extension; and (e) a Financial Controller (or similar support
provided by a firm locally established), to help with preparing and
monitoring budgets for both research and extension programs. In addition, at
each center for the priority crops, there is a need for about 10 man-years of
5 specialists spread over the 6 centers to assist the commodity research
leaders. Terms of reference and requirements for consultants are shown in
Working Paper No. 3.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
international staff would be recruited before June 30, 1989 (para 7.01(j)).
5.12      Short-term consultants would be recruited during project
implementation for some 30 man-months to advise on specific research and
training topics such as demarcation of agro-ecological zones, specialized
aspects of crop improvement, soil fertility, weed control and crop processing
and training for trainers, extension methodology, diffusion technology, and
audiovisual preparation (Annex 13).
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13      Two small M&E cells within DNRA and the Extension Unit, would be
responsible for monitoring project progress. They would, from project
inception, define the type, amount, purpose, and timing of data to be
collected, provide the necessary staff training, and guarantee continuity in
the collection of data series requiring extended time periods. Th-y would
carry out evaluation surveys once a year to provide quantitative and
qualitative information on the coverage and impact of research and extension
services. Staff of both services advised by BSD would carry out the initial
surveys (part of the Diagnostic Survey and substitution of the baseline
survey) and help with subsequent data collection as necessary. The two cells
would prepare by March 31, 1989, detailed plans for monitoring and evaluating
project activities. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations
(para 7.01(k)).



- 25 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The project is expected to improve significantly the organization
and management or research and extension. Given the low level of technology
currently available to Guinean farmers, properly directed and funded research
could significantly increase yields. Moreover, the Training and Visit (T&V)
system promoted by the project has been associated in many countries with
significant yield increases, often because of its ability to teach farmers
timely application of cultivation practices. It has also been the starting
point for inst'tutional improvements. Thus, the main results anticipated
from the support of the project to these two essential services would
include: (a) MARA's and SERS's improved financial management and increased
ability to plan, coordinate, and implement research and extension programs at
the national level; (b) increased production and productivity of food, root
and fruit crops, thereby contributing to the Government's food security
objective and reducing food imports; (c) increased exports by improving the
quality of fruit crops; and (d) increased incomes for most of Guinea's rural
population. The emph&sis in research and extension toward application of
readily available technology suitable to smallholders would benefit, in a
relatively short period, over 200,000 rural families directly covered by the
renewed extension service, and the majority of the rural families (over
600,000) through the delivery of research results via rural development
projects. Additional benefits would be obtained from the em-hasis on women
participation as extension workers and as recipients of custom-made messages,
support provided for cooperative development, and training of local staff.
6.02      Economic Costs and Benefits.   Attributing a precise level of
benefits to this type of project is difficult as the nature and timing of
scientific advances are unpredictable and it is not possible to accurately
single out the proportion of benefits deriving from research and extension
alone. In practice, it is the combination of a number of factors such as
price policies, the availabilitv and cost of inputs, credit, and climatic
conditions that brings the desired benefits, with extension playing tlMe role
of catalyst. It is also difficult to calculate adoption rates for variius
recommended practices. Moreover, because recommendations would vary
according to crop, district, agro-ecological zone and the level of the
farmer, it is difficult to estimate future yield and production increases.
6.03      Considerable ex-post evidence has accumul.ted of the usually
satisfactory economic returns obtainable from investments in applied
research. Accumulated evidence shows that research is a highly profitable
form of public and private investment that confers benefits to both projects
and consumers. Of 50 ex-post studies completed, most have shown rates of
return that exceed 20Z and several that exceed 40Z. T.Le proposed project
would rehabilitate and reinforce an existing network and benefit from
considerable sunk costs. It is therefore not likely to be an exception to
this general 'inding.  Given the current very low level of crop yields in
Guinea, compared with that in neighboring countries (para 6.04), even minor
research progress is expected to effect important yield increases. On the
extension side, significant increases in yield could be obtained with simple



- 26 -
messages on timely application of cultivation practices. Since some of these
(timely weeding and planting, proper spacing and plant population) are
already available and are being proposed to farmers, it is possible to
estimate the impact to be achieved through the extension component with a
certain degree of accuracy, as follows.
6.04      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  An attempt has been made to
estimate an ERR for the extension component. The project would concentrate
on the main smallholder crops of each region for which technological packages
are available (Annex 1): rice, maize, groundnuts and cassava, and eventually
cash crops such as in the forest region. The average yield levels per
hectare of small farms are substantially low for Guinea compared with those
of neighboring countries and/or potential achievements: upland rice 750 kg,
swamp rice 1,200 kg, maize 1,200 kg, groundnuts 600 kg and cassava 5,000 kg
for Guinea, against 1,600-2,000 kg for upland rice, 3,000 kg for swamp rice,
1,400-2,200 kg for maize and over 10,000 kg for cassava in other West African
countries. It is estimated that good farmers, applying proper cultivation
techniques, could double these average yields for most crops, often by
applying only low input husbandry measures. These yield potentials, however,
would probably not be obtained until the extension system has become fully
effective. The economic analysis is based on modest assumptions (Annex 14)
including an adoption rate by which only 252 of the farming area covered by
the project would be under new technology at full development (PY12 including
the PPV). Under those assumptions, to achieve a 20Z ERR, yields would have
to increase by about 152 which is modest by any standard and particularly
feasible under the low technological levels prevalent in Guinea, even without
new influx of locally developed research results. Production data, economic
analysis and assumptions underlying the ERR calculation of the "with project"
situation are presented in Annexes 14 and 15, and Working Paper No. 2.
Budgetary Implications
6.05      Total incremental costs of the project extension component over the
development period would be GF 4.8 billion (US$10.8 million) which is about
US$5.9/ha of cultivated land during that period.  Assuming a very modest
adoption rate (about 100,000 ha under improved technology, or 62 of
cultivated land), the incremental cost after the development period would be
below US$3.0ha, which compares favorably with COte d'Ivoire (US$5.0/ha) and
Togo (US$8.0/ha). In addition, much of the project overheads (research,
financial management) are geared to setting up a national level research and
extension service, which would spread fixed overheads over a considerably
larger area, thereby reducing unit costs. The research and extension
incremental recurrent budgets after the project development period would
amount to about GF 250 million (US$0.55 million) or about 1 of the
agricultural GNP, which is modest by arny standard; it could be managed by the
Government's recurrent budget which, in 1986, was about GF 4.5 billion for
MARA.  Recurrent extension --   .4 tring this post development period would
not be high since a much lighter extension coverage would be required to
maintain a minimum level of technology flow within an already primed system.
These costs are estimated at about GF 100 million (US$0.2 million) per annum
at full development. Recu.rrent research costs, about GF 150 million
(US$0.33) per annum would not diminish substantially because of the long-term
nature of research; however, only very modest production gains would be



- 27 -
neaded to recover this increase in average annual expenditure arising from
the project. Incremental costs would not be recovered directly, except for
taxes and levies collected indirectly from additional consumption
expenditures by project beneficiaries.
Employment and Poverty Impact
6.06      The project would have only a comparatively small direct employment
generation. However, by focusing research and extension services on
smallholders whose present yields ate low, the project would lead to
increases of farm productivity and farm output of a majority of 600,000 farm
families in Guinea. This would generate substantial additional employment
and income for farmers. By reaching the high agricultural potential areas
and the less endowed regions of Guinea through an effective extension
service, the project's indirect employment and income effect would accrue not
only to the poor but also to the poorest of the poor.
Environmental Impact
6.07      The project would help provide for the needs of Guinea's growing
population while maintaining or improving the resource base. The project
would place priority on adaptive research of pest and disease resistant
varieties, and cultivation methods that would decrease dependence on
chemicals and tillage operations which pose erosion/environmental problems.
The project would also emphasize soil conservation and fertility research to
avoid further environmental degradation and to restore soil productivity. It
is expected that modernization of Guinean Agriculture would involve the use
of chemical inputs, but technical messages generated by research would
promote greater efficiency of chemical input use and relative reductions in
rates/ha. Farmers would receive adequate training in the storage,
application, and disposal of pesticides.
Proiect Risks
6.08      In the current Guineau context, the project faces risks of
ineffective management and coordination of research and extension programs,
failure to adhere to agreed priorities and balance in research programs, low
adoption of research findings due to lack of confidence on the part of
farmers, and inappropriate research conducted in isolation. The first risk
wo A.d be minimized bv strengthening the structure of the services through the
establishment of an ad hoc committee for research and extension, provision of
technical assistance, and the establishment of contractual arrangements
between the services to jointly carry out adaptive research. This would
ensure that adaptive research is directed toward providing early results, and
that planning and coordination are effective. The second risk would be
reduced by establishing research priorities through an annual review of
programs and budgets involving all donors and farmers. The third risk is
addressed by the Pilot Extension Program which has reestablished farmers'
confidence in government extension. Emphasis on on-farm research and on the
linkage among research and extension staff and farmers will make research and
extension responsive to farmers' needs.



- 28 -
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
(a) The project would submit annual budgets and work plans; maintain
records and accounts; have accounts audited and submit audited
accounts; strengthen accounting sections by recruiting a financial
manager or firm; establish, no later than June 30, 1989, a balance
sheet as of December 31, 1988; and submit progress reports and
prepare a Project Completion Report (paras 4.28 and 4.29).
(b) The Directors of DNRA and the Extension Unit would be authorized to
directly engage on expenditures up to the limit for which
Government procurement code would be applicable and to effect
payments out if IDA's Special Account up to FG 50 million; these
Directors and the Director of SNATC would be authorized to make
direct payments out of the local currency Project Accounts up to
the limit of the initial deposit. The Directors of the research
centers would be allowed to open, maintain and replenish accounts
in FG on a commercial bank to cover their operating costs (para
4.30).
(c) The Government's portion of incremental funding would be deposited
quarterly and in advance in the local currency Project Accounts
(para 4.34).
(d) The DNRA would at least maintain the status of a national
directorate and while within the SERS its Director would be
directly under the Secretaire d'Etat; the research centers would be
under the tutelage of the Director, DNRA (para 5.02).
(e) A mid-term review would be carried out to evaluate the performance
of the project and the adequacy of the structures involved iri
project implementation (para 5.02).
(f)  Government would ensure, through the National Research/Extension
Committee to be established with membership satisfactory to IDA
before March 31, 1989, that research and extension programs,
strategies and budgets are reviewed annually prior to submission to
IDA for comments (paras 5.04 and 5.06).
(g) An agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
Resources and the State Secretariat for Scientific Research would
be signed before June 30, 1989, through which MARA would engage the
services of DNRA to carry out adaptive research (para 5.08).
(h) SNATC would operate on the basis of an organization and structure
satisfactory to IDA (para 5.09).
(i) To maintain the quality of staff at DNRA headquarters, research
centers, and extension a test would be given before engaging staff
into the training program; the teat would be carried out before
June 30, 1989 (para 5.10).



- 29 -
(j) The international staff not yet in post would be recruited not
later than June 30, 1989 (para 5.11).
(k) The two M&E cells would prepare by March 31, 1989, detailed plans
to monitor and evaluate project activities (para 5.13).
7.02      Condition of Credit Effectiveness
(a) Submission of a satisfactory action plan for compliance with the
Government's debt reporting obligations to the World Bank (para
4.30).
(b) Opening of two local currency project accounts and the initial
deposit by the Government of GF 55 million, equivalent to half of
its first year's contribution in local funds would be a condition
of effectiveness (para 4.34).
7.03      Condition of Disbursement.  The creation of SNATC before June 30,
1989, and the initial deposit by Government of GF 10 million in local funds,
would be a condition of disbursement against the cooperative component (para
5.09!.
7.04      Recommendation.  With the above agreements, the project would be
suitable for a credit of SDR 14.2 million (US$18.4 million) to the Government
of Guinea on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



REPUBLIC OF GUIINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Recommendations Readily Available for Main Crops
Rice
U a/   BF      n      F    haize a/   Cassava  6oundnuts a/    CSI bl    CS2 b/   CS3 b/
Recooeendations                        ----                    ---    -----      ------
Seed Collection Selection                       x                      x
Germination Test                                x       x       x      K       K                      K
Planting (Tine, Population, System)             x                              I            x                       I x          x       s
Nursery Planning, Execution                             I       x      I
Line Planting (Spacing)                                 I       I      K       x                      K             K            x       s
Needing (Timinn  Frequency)                      x      I                      x            x         x             x            x       x
Transplanting ltime, Spacing)                           s       x      x
Ridging (Type, Frequency)                                                      x                      x
Conservation (Post Harvest)
Crab Cantrol                                                    x
Selection Planting Material                                                                 x
Preparation Stock                                                                           x
Positioning Stock                                                                           x
a/  Recomeendations on planting time, density, transplanling (at least), would change according             to the different ecological
regions of G6inea.
bl  Basically aised at improving the  Tapade  systen of the Fouta Djallon region.
U     Upland                    CSI  a  Cropping system   Naize/Turo
SF =  Bas-Fonds                 C92  =  Cropping system   Maize/Potato
N  a  Hangrove                  CS3  :  Cropping system   CompealHaizeiTaro
F  =  Flooded
X



-32  -                          ANTNEX  2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
National and Project Area Planted with Main Food Crops
and Current/Estimated Yields
Area   c/
Benefitina
from New
Area   cl     Technology
National a/      Projected bl   Covered by    at Full              Current    Estimated
Area Planted    Area Planted   Extension       Develooment IY9)   Yields       Increase
('000 ha)       t1000 ha)       (1000 ha)      ('000 ha)         kg/ha         (ISI)
Rice                     750              920            161            40                900       .1035
Maize                    140              180             75            19                900        1035
Groundnuts               120              140             45            11                600         690
Cassava                  100              100             38            10               5000        5750
Total                   1110             1340            319            g0               7400        8510
Total
under cultivation    1600
a/  From SCET Aori Study of Agricultural Sector, 1987.  Tree Crops not incladed in ERR calculation.
b/ From estiuafions made for Seeds Project (for 1997), except cassava.
cl From Annex 4-4.



REPULIC OF 6UINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EITENSION PROMECT
Location, Programs and size of Research Centres
Station                      Principal Progras                     Station                   Principal Progras                          Station                         Principal Proqrae
1. treng    Cereals                                              2. 8erdo        Pootcrops                                            4. Kilissi            Rice (rainfed and irrigatedl
(30 ha)      -
- Maize  Fonio, Iillet                                 IContd)     - CAsSAva, Sweet Potato, Tan                             (70 ha)           . varietal selection
. vaietal introduction Ifonla local                                .assessmnt of pests and diseases                                         . cultural techniques
varieties), selection                                               varietal slection
- Iheat                                                                c cultural tehniques                                                   Soybea
. varietal testing at different altitudes
. date of sowinq                                                 - Cotten                                                                     varietal selection
. cultural techniques                                              . varietal i4urovesent                                                     cultural techniques
cultural teKbiCues
Legums                                                               . crop associations                                                      Swnt Potato
- Conpea                                           3. Foulaya      - Fruits                                                                   . assessaent of pests and discases
. varietal introduction, selection          ,       -                                                                                         varietal selection
. cultural techniques                                11015 ha)   - bananas                                                                    cultural tecbniqres
varietal Introduction, selection
Rootcrops                                                            . plant protection                                 3. loea               Rice (ungrove, rainfed, irrigated)
"agqes
- Cassava                                                              varietal introduction, selection                    (25 ha)              varietal seletion
. assessment of pests and diseases                                 . plant protection                                                       . cultural techniques
varietal selection                                               . production, storage, processing techniques
c cultural techniques                                              pi1neapples                                                              Magrove SoilS
- Potato                                                             . varetal iotroduction, selection                                                                   t
. varietal setltion                                                . plant protection                                                       . Sail and Vater Mnageaent
Vegetable Crops                                                    Legums                                               6. Seredon            Rice (rainfed And valley bottom)
. varietal seletion                                              - copeaN  grondnets, cajanas cajan                      125 hal )            varittal selection
. cultural techniques                                              .varietal seW  tion                                                      . cultural techniqu                                   w
.cultural techniques
Soil Conservation                                                                                                                             Cassava
. restoration of soil fertility                                    t crops                                                                  . assesmnt of pests And diseases
. anti-erosion measures                                          - CasSNava                                                                   varietal selc ion
varietal selection                                                    . cultural tcbniques
2.   de                                                                            . cultudra  techniques
155 ha)   Rice trninfed, Irrigated, floating)                               Livstock a/                                                                  ---
. trials of plantinig uateria't
varietal selection                                                  i inveotory of natural pastures                                        . cultural techniques
cultural tecniqls                                                . introduction of forages species
selection of improVeD typeS                                           Plantaia
Cereals
C-- 5                                                                                                                                         . varietal selactim
- Mlze  Foio, Nillet, Sorghum                                                                                                                 . cultural tecknique
. varletal 3eleCUOn
. cultural techniques                                                                                                                      Coffe, Cocoa ad Kola                                    D
Legum                                                                                                                                           introduction ad trials of plastial material
varietal selKtion                                     w
- Coupea, 6roudnuts, Soybean                                                                                                                  . cultural techniqves
. varital selection
. cultural techniqus
a/ Not financed under the project.



-  34  -
ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Location of Off-Station/On-Far. Trials
Year                                                    Year
Progras                     -2-P Progra
-roram1   2    3   4   5                                                      1   2    3   4   5
- Bareng Center                                 -      -   Koba Center                    -
.Foniolflaize                                            . Rice
PE Bareng Center            x   x    x   x   x            PE Kaba Center             I   K   I   I   I
PE 6aouai                                 x   s           PE Sonfonia                    I   I   x   I
.Rice                                                       PE Botre                       I   I   I   I
PE 6aoual                      x    I   I   I            PE Kaback (Forecariah)         I   I   I   I
Cassava/Sweet Potato
PE Nasou                       x    I   I   s       - Seredou Center
Coppea/6roundnut
PE Bareng Center           I   x    x   I   I           Rice
PE Gaoual                                                PE Seredou Center              I   s   *   s
I s   s             PE Kaealo (Guectedou)    I   I   I       s
PE Yoeou                      I        K I
- Bordo Center                                                PE Kissidougou             I   I   I   I   s
Oil Palo
. Rice                                                      PE Seredou Center          I   I   I   I 
PE Bordo Center            s   x    I   I   I            PE Lola                    I   I   s   I   s
PE Tokounou                x   x    s   x                PE Yagoyah                 s       x   I   I
PE Suguiri                 x   x    a   s   x           Coffee
I  Fonia/Raize                                              PE Gueckedau               I   I   I   s   K
PE Bardo Centerc           x   x    I      x             PE Kissidougou             I   I   I   I   x
PE fandiana                x   x    K   I   I            PE acenta                  I   s   I   I   s
. 6roundnut/Cowpea                                          PE N'Zerekore              I   x   I   I
PE Bordo Center                              I x    s   s   x  . Plantain
PE Dabola                      x    s   s   s            PE N'lerekore              I   x   I   K   s
. Cassava/Yan                                               PE Seredou                     I   I   x   s
PE Baranama                    x    I   I x           .Root Crops
. Cotton                                                    PE Kmalo                       s   s   x
PE landiana                I   x    I   I   I            PE Seredou Center              I   I   *   I
- Foulaya Center
Fruits
PE Forecariah                  x    s   s   s
PE Pita (Bareng)                     x   s   s
Groundnut
PE Kilissi Center          s   x    s   x   a
PE Boffa                       x    x   x   x
. Cassava
PE Foulaya Center          I   x    x   s   x
PE Forecariah                  x    x   t   s
PE Yilissi                 s   x    x   x   x
. Veietable Crops
PEBareng Center               I    I   I   I
PE Kilissi Center              x    x   x   x
PE Coyah                             *   *   s
Note: PE refers to Points d'Essai at which trials be set up under controlled conditions.  6enrally
PEs mould be located off-station although in certain cases they wuld be on-station. Each
PE vould be surraunded by 4 units of on-fare trials. At each unit there uould he up to seven
trials of simple design.



-35  -ANNEX  5
REPUBLIC OF EUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Population. Ratios Extensionists (FEW) to Rural Fasilies. Estimated Area Covered
Number      Number                 Number        Number       Esfieiteid  
Recions and         Rural        Person       Rural     Number       District      Farms        Surface
Prifectures      Population-  per family   Families   FEW  a/        Covered-    Covered b/    Covered c/
6UINEE NARITINE
DOKE                168900             7        24128       48           72         14400         23040
RM ARIAH            387M 8            77       IN88        1            12          19RR @        175
DUBREKA              66000             7         9428       19           47         5              9120
BOFFA               106300             7        15185       33           35          5            15940
KINDIA              179200             7        24700       49           93         I4iv%         23520
TELINELE            194600             7        27800       56           42         16800         26880
SUB-TOTAL           B37600                     118754      253          369         75900        121440
HAUTE 6UINEE
DABOLA               74600             8         9550       32           35          9600          15360
FARANAH             111500             8        13937       48           41         14400         23040
SUB-TOTAL           186100                      23487       80           76        24000          38400
hOYENNE 6UINEE
PITA                199400             5        39980       80           64         24000         38400
DALABA              116200             5        23240       46           38         13800         22080
KAHOU               166700             5        33340       67           27        20100          32160
SUB-TOTAL           482300                     %9460       193          129        57900          92640
BUINEE FORESTIERE
PACENTA             164100             8        20512       41           36         12300         19680
LOLA                 90700             8        11337       23           21          6900         11040
'IEREKORE           193900             8        22987       46           76         13800         22080
BEYLA               161300             8        20163       40           75         12000         19200
SUB-TOTAL           600000                      74999      150          208        45000          72000
PROJECT TOTAL      2106000                     313700      676          782       202900         324490
a/  At a ratio of I FEW to 300 farm families needed to cover about 60Z fuars/district.  Fioures
may differ from this ratio in some prefectures due to prooram already onooino based on'a
ratio of I FEW to I District.
b/  Number of FEW s 300 fare families.  Estimated total number of farms in countrv 650-730.000.
cl  At an average of 1.6 ha cultivated by farm.



- - --    - ---  - -   - ------- - --  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -a  - - -  -   . - - - - -
hi I o3  *"o - -- -    ----o ----- -o.    Aa -   a
---3 - --------------------------3-                                                              t i!  i-
-----:---             -                             a -------- -_  -----__ _ _  _     _     _     _
*  s=u                                                                                    oo  -   I  = l o  I ol z
-- - - - - - - - -                                - - - - - - - -  - - -I - -  -   -   - -
aR3.-.t3o              ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~i   a    -a!! 
a _                          j                         I         ro                               a
I               1-~~I
-------- --------------    ---  -         !            -'       --   -    --   -     ----
o                 a                          o           Y I               a             e
V   -,                           hi --    ---     -- -     - ~ -                    
~~~ ~~----                           --    -
-               - -----.     ----               a- *-ih-a  I   -----         I  -   --    - S - i -    -    -.- -
0-'---t----------'------------l----------'------------
-    -    - -    -    - -    -     -    -     -    - -    -    - -    -    -    -   
-5 -~ -----        -  - -  -     0.                   cih --a,
i~~a-mfl          hijO~7  -Ji - -m- -ih--                                              hi - -
himi           h                          i                                                3       *    S I 
e>&_|0   ~~~~~~~hmO                           mc~                    SR  hiy           him _, _       - U
- -                     3-                        *O                    .                     I      r i
?s=~~~~ -t.                      o!   
-eNamaS   ' ,C          -     - -     --'i -*   -     -       a                    ma.
.n--.-       I'w3               -   31   -  -                 aS                    3-i  -             -!I "
a5g    a-3 a                   as        ;                                     ao                    S 3
W     mgli..-1a               a---!     ---                 1:                    ii   a--
-a.a.aaa  -am                                                   a;:i                         . I 
-   2g .t9                  X_        _                o  N                                    -s-!
-  41-!e                           -!                                         -'                         -S
E-     ! Y ma,                 |-        -                                     to3   
.--I-!o~ h--I  hi-                              Ia_o__________ - -
{rooooo__- aS                                                                                  o ooooo-.  a  o  a      _*    
I~~~~~~~~~~~    
IS.~   ~~          9I _-
a                        I3                                             I



- 37-
R!WLC OF @UINEA                                  ANNEX  7
NATIONAL RSEARoi ZZ iT54SIoN PROJECT
Project Cost by Component and Nature
(P ________________illi_n_____________--l-i--)-
-_-_-----____-------- (FC 1000) -----------    -----  --- (FC Mi ll ion)-     --.S Mi I l ;on)--
1989    1990    1991      1992    1993    Total Local Foreign  Total Lce  Foreign Tota I
APPLED RESARCH
Construction               964120        0        0        0        0    964120   482   482    964  1.00   1.08  2.17
Vehicles                   291500        0        0    81600        0    373100    19   354    373  0.04   0.60  0.64
EquipVent                  64h428   4706       8700    1os3      4550    717268    78   640    717  0.17  1.44   1.61
Peronnel                    38263   34830   34830   34830    34830    175SS3    176        0     176  0.39   0.00   0.39
Technical Assistance       425000  425000         0        0        0   6So50o      0    650    650  0.00   1.91   1.91
Operating Coata             97200  101620  104490   107360  110960    521630   130   392    522  0.29   0.68   1.17
Bs Cost                   2460511  ;8O510   148020  234340   150340  3601721   684  i271    3602  1.99   6;11  8.09
ADAPTIVE RESEARN4
Construction                26000        0        0        0        0     26000    13    13       26  0.03  0.03  0.06
VehitIel                    96000        0        0        0        0     96000      5    91      96  0.01  0.20  0.22
Equipment                  110000        0        0        0        0    110000      6    103    110  0.01  0.23  0.25
Peronel                     21600   21600   21600   21600   21600   108000   106           0     106  0.24  0.00  0.24
Technical Assistance        54000   54000   54000          0        0    162000      0    162    162  0.00  0.36  0.36
Operating Costs            130350  1503SO  150350   150350  10350    751750   417   335    752  0.94  0.75   1.69
Base Cost                  457950  225950  22S950   171950   171950   1233750   846   706   1254  1.23  1.59   2.82
Construction                28140        0        0        0        0     26140    14    14       28  0.03  0.03  0.06
Vehicles                    20270        0        0    11997        0    32267      2    31       32  0.00  0.07   0.07
Equipment                   24918    1000    1000       1000    1000    26918       2    27       29  0.00  0.06   0.06
Personnel                   48228    57722   48750    44482   42282   241472   241         0    241  0.54   0.00   0.54
Technical Assistance        72148   72146   72148          0        0    216439     0   216    216  0.00  0.49   0.49
Consultants                115150   3S160   21090   21090   21090   213570          0   214    214  0.00   0.48   0.48
Fellowehip-   Seinar,    232120  161460   116450   116480        1200   627680      7   621    626  0.01   1.40   1.41
Operating Costs             17712   17712   17712   17712   17712    6w81          27    62       69  0.06  0.14   0.20
sae Cost                   556B92  345190  2r7148   212731   63284   1477047   292  1185   1477  0.66  2.66   3.32
SCTS6ZON
Construction               267800   61800         0        0        0    529600   168   165    330  0.37   0.37   0.74
Vehicles                   124714  132276   92564   150031   87781   587366    29   ase          U7  0.07   1.25   1.32
Equipment                   22139   28260    9599    33720   26920    160638    12   139   1l1  0.03  0.31   0.34
Peroonnel                   5068   63825   72600   76600   76913    342625   343           0    343  0.77   0.00   0.77
Technicol Assistance        90356   90366   90366          0        0    271097     0    271    271  0.00   0.61   0.61
Operating Coats            148656   168227  176736   167571  169811   829003   237   692    129  0.53   1.28   1.81
Praproject Activities      142400        0        0        0        0    142400    4S    97    142  0.10  0.22  0.32
Base Cost                  844965  5446E4  471884   427922  383425  2652729   831  1822   2653   1.87  4 04  5.91
COOPERATrVE ODvaEUeTr
Vehicles                    12000        0        0        0        0     12000     0     12      12  0.00  0.03  0.03
Equipmnt                    15575   18900         0        0       0     34475      0    34       34  0.00  0.06   0.00
Technicl Assistance-        53400   S3400   53400                        160200     0    160    160  0. C   0.36   0.36
Conei,tants                  8900   11123                                 20025     a    20       20  0.00  0.05   0.05
Operating Coots             13800    13OO   13800    11130   11130    63660    16    48           64  0.04   0.10   0.14
ame Cost                   103875    97225   67200    1115O    11.30    290306   18   272    290  0.04   0.61   0.65
MONrTORIO AMD EVALIUATION
Vehicles                    1O8O         0        0    18000       0     s6000      2    34       38  o.oo  0.08   o.o0
Equipmnt                     1000        0        0        0       0       1000     0      1       1  0.00   0.00  0.00
Salaries                      623      625      62       625      625     3L2s      3      0       3  0.01  0.00  0.01
Operating Coats              7060    7060    7060    7060    7060    33300          9    26       36  0.02  0.06   0.06
Bass Cost                   2668      7685    765    2s683       7688     742s     14    61       75  0.03  0.14   0.17
PROJECT PREPARATION        378250        0        0        0    66750   445000    97   348    445  0.22  0.76   1.00
as ecost                   37823fa0      o0        o       0   6876    4450.00    97   348    448  o022  0.78  ;100
INTSTUTONA.L STR1!NaOINI
Construction                80000        0   82400         0       0    162400    61    61    162  0.18  0.18   0.36
Vehicies                   120482        0        0   108485       0   226967    21   206    229  0.05  0.47   0.51
Equipmnt                    81028    115       2617        0        0    84303    14    70        a6  0.03  0.16   0.19
Perrcnnel                    372s    4250    4100    4250    4250    20578    21           0      21  0.05  0.00   0.05
Technical Assistanc        12814   128146   128146   72146          0    4s68s8     0    457    457  0.00   1.03   1.03
Consultants                 70400   38600    31800   38600    28400   207800        0   206    206  0.00   0.47  0.47
Operating Coats            103944     544Q   82449    52975   39975    374297   185   190    374  0.41   0.43   0.84
Sess Cost                   67230  267604  361212  276456   72625   1535127   322  1213   1535  0.72  2.73   3.45
TOTAL BASE COST           5417938 2096718  1529060  1360214  927189  1133118   3006  8325  11331  6.75  18.66  25.41
Physical Contingencies     410595  105996   95078   105566   63893   780828   305   478    781  0.69   1.07   1.76
Prie* Contingencies        447206  279744  302626   33355s   266598   1629731   843   787   1630   1.92   1.79   3.70
TOTAL PROJE6T COST        6275761  2482453  1926784  1799338  1257379  13741717  41U   9587  13741   9.36  21.51  30.87
-            -     .          -                 -         _    -       _      -   _-       -E_



RFAUUC OF aUDiA
NATIOWAL ftiA 4I            IOT N POJECT
--------------------------------------
Project Cost by _netitutlon, Co"opmnt *nd tbture
-------------------- (- -O--) -------                             ----- Financin Plan CFO '000) -------------------
Not Of
S.ED. D.N.R.A.  N.A.RA    Total    Ta.o.        Tanvs            IDA      FED      FC    IFAD        "at.     ones    Tot l
APPLI  RESEAR                              4308496            4305496   159176   4146319
Construction                               1192268             1192268    9s702   1o096          29428    606252             loom25             93o2  1192266
Vehuel.                                     4483e5             448385         0    448385        213717   189274              45394                      44383
Eq..i pnt                                   849681             649581    1176    83786           199633   437330             20069               11763   849661
Personnel                                   224290              224290    23488    2006s3        114175    O668                                  PJ485   224290
Technical Assistance                        91528               9s1280        0    915280                 368112   549168                                915290
Operating Const                             6712                673612    30256    6483M           7 235   265121            155000   210         0256   675612
AAPTIVW RESEAR                              iS67022           1Ui7022   e85            is56
Constructtion                                31635                1635     1582     80058          19503    1OSSO                                1se2    31m
V. hci Os                                   112506              11250         0    11250          56259    37500              18749                      1125
Equipment                                   128916              128916        O    1m8u           59160    43000              24738                      128916
Personnel                                   138072              138072     3807    124264          55234    48019             23012             1t807   136072
Technicl Assistane.                         177563              177U3         0    177563         177563                                                 1775U
Operating Costs                             978329              97829    25117    95512          444035   326080             185097              23117   978329
TRAI4DC                                     965544   85208s   1817629    11114   1808515
Construction                                     0    35790      35790     1719     34071          34071                                          1719   55790
Vehicles                                         0    39452      69452        0     39452          39452                                                  39452
Eq..  "t                                         0    34378      34378              34378         3437                                                    34378
Personn.1                                        0   337866    33785        479    357387                                             337367       479  3J786
Technico I As etanes                        118375   116923    237299         0    257299         237299                                                 257299
Cons ult nts                                 8472   150517    2&389           0    235389        207127    28282                                         235389
Fel loships A Seminars                      782297              782297        0    782297         521558   260739                                        72?                   CO
Operating Cost.                                  0   11is50      S1180     8915    106243         106245                                          8914   11515
ECTETGIG                                            3312969   3312989   161064   3151905
Construction                                         423493    423495    63524    359969         s599e69                                          3523   423492
Vehicle*                                             736427    738427         0    738427        738427                                                  738427
Equ ip_ent                                           191418    191418      188s    169583        1953s3                                           1864   191417
Peranmnl                                             441926    441926    44193    397733         597733                                          44192   441925
Tchunical Assistance                                 297306    297306         0    297308        297306                                                  297306
Operating Coat.                                     1077997   1077997    51463   12534           710050                               31644    51463  107799
Prepro;sct Acti.it;ga (PPF)                          142400    142400         0    142400        142400                                                  142400
COOPUtATIvE OEVEOPlT               334222                       334222     4092    330130
VaAicl.m                            14064                        14064        0     14064          .4064                                                  14064
Equipment                           41124                        41124        0     41124         41124                                                   41124
T.chnical Aaiatance                175590                       175590        0    175590         17550o                                                 178590
Consultants                         21596                        21596        0     2159          2159                                                    21596
Operating Cost.                     81646                        816       4092     77784         m 4                                             4092    614
MDNITORINr AND EVALLATIWN                              95427     9S427     2712     92715
Vehicles                                               44845     44845        0     44845          44848                                                  44645
Equipmnt                                                1172      1172        0      1172           1172                                                   117:
Peronol                                                 395       39        431       564           354                                            431     3S9
Oparetins Costs                                        43613     4S615     2281     4864           43334                                          221    4315S
PROJCT TEPARATIN                                      445000    443000        0    445000         445000                                                 445000
NiJTIIUrImNAL STRSOT4IDO                0  1204754   659198   1863952    41961   1821972
Conatruction                                 101761   115296    217088   22562    1946            l947                                           222   217DU
Vehicles                                     201150    61964    283134        0    28514          283184                                                 213134
Equ i pset                                    57020     328     10o27s     1324      96952         96952                                          1824   16027
Peraonnel                                     18385     73       263J      2637     23781          237S1                                          2687    266
Technical Aistace                            84509   161644    506703         0    306o7          325703            1eoo 08070
Consltants                                   14896     92976    241948        0    24194          241944                                                 2419"
Operating Costs                              332211   136257    468468    15637    472651         472531                                         18t68    486466
TOTAL PROJ=T COST (PC '000)          34222  062u1   8447   17417   416644               7 *16411  27e291    732168              2706    7Vnt   416640 1341717
TOTAl. PJT COST (168 Millin)  0.75    1.12    12.01 60.68  0.4  26.94  1.34  6.07_  __ 1.  1.2     1._  0.94    80.6_
TOTAL   PjROJC COST (U$  illion)              WiiU1 201t    eoe              2           4UUe0 I Ul21 zo'    $; SO.94t
-------------------------------------



- 39 -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                                       AM EX  9
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EiTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursesent Schedule
DISBURSEMENT
PROFILE
5 YEAR PROJECT
ESTIATIONS                  ESTIMATIONS
IDA FY              USOO                        US$000
SEMESTRES      SEMESTRES   CUMUL.          i    CUMUL.      7.
1989   1           1870      1834        1       163       I
II          1834     3668         20     1407       8
1990   1           1264      4952        27      2934      16
II          1467     6419         35     4952      27
1991   1           1834      8253        45      7336      40
1]         23B4    10637          58     9537      52
1992   1           2201     12838        70    11738       64
Ii          1834    14672         80    13572      74
1993   1            917    15589         85    15222       83
11          917    16506          90    16323      89
1994   1            917    17423         95    17423       95
t1           734    18157         99    18157      99
1995   1            193    19340        100    18340    100
I!
Dis bu rsernents Prof il e
Efftmotad and Hi,on
19 -
145
15
14
C   11                                /            
1909           1 99D           1Y941           1992            1 9Y'           1994            1995
n     Letimutse                     4    Wortoro



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEAPRCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
DIRECTION OF NA'IONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Organizational Structure
Dlrection ot National
Agricaiturm Research
I  Depy D-lretor
Oviul  of                                                        -        wM sof
F~~~a,wi~~~~ng snd                                  D~~~~~ocwumittaon and
lonb~aI C od Prog'as             l                                                   'Scientfi hifonrAtlon
Stetio           bootlon         Setiofn           Seefun "iogyi
Resewrch end     armiM               ontr~nd                         IC,=                   ecinSeto
Demilopumnt and  idattl                                           Ped Owiustltl anmreta!Io
Reearch
Ceonate



a..  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-  .-    Iv                                                                 1;0
--  a-.             .-.-*a      na                                      L.~~~~~~~~'   -.~W
.--~   a  U all. 5~  4a   -e  .4                                 I.,a-=
--    I               S            a*Ca*(4a~~~~~~~~~0 
jill         a.a M. -                                                                   -a-    - - - ---------- -                               - -  -- M
-.      I.. M 
--            ~~~-    -          -   - -  --- 
-                               --------                      --                          -  -.. aa-. .  -   -  a- -  --   -I
-~ ~           ~-        -- -~ -         .4---              - ----                      --  -----                      -  -  - a--.
*         ~~-   -------              -  -  --- 
-    -------------           -                -   : -                 ---------                          ------
- --    . -     ----             -           -~ --.--
a-  ------                         -    - -                                                                  
aa  I                                                                   S           -N                                        N



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Organizational Structure
Extension Servlces
I STERl
MAW.RA  ,
See. General|
rTch'na OlviAion
REGAL ,MMCTOR   
Reg/an
Pofectv"                                       
sub DkwUens                  SOA       SOE        WGR                                        , .R
;ecm                                                   S
DOfPM  Dkr.ctai Gweal Formation .t Promotion Rural                                     
MMJ. DlvWso*n Methodes Viaalontgo                                                  Cort    _
SIWP   Sub4retio Farwton Promotion Rural
SV  SecUan WpgrlsFanE-
TS  TeclmlaJ Speddits



H                                       ~~~~~~~~~43
ANNEX 13
REPUBLIC OF 6UINEA
NATIONAL RESEARCH AND ElTENSION PROJECT
-               Technical Assistance
LONG-TERI (Man-Years)               Research   Extension  Coops.    Total   Financing   Station
A. Cost Included in Project a/
Financial Controller                 2.00        2.00      -       4.00       IDA        Ho
Research Manager                     3.00          -       -       3.00       AC        Ho
Agricultural Socio-Econcist         2.25        0.75      -       3.00       IDA        Ho
Extension Specialist                    -        3.00      -       3.00       IDA     HO/Field
Training Specialist                  1.50        1.50      -       3.00       IDA     HQ/Field
Rice Agronomist                      2.00          -       -       2.00       FAC     Kilissi
Rice Geneticist                      2.00          -       -       2.00       FAC     Bordo
Maize/Other Crops Specialist         2.00          -       -       2.00       EDF     Bordo
Rice/Farming Systems Specialist    2.00            -       -       2.00      EOF      Koba
Nursery Specialist                   2.00          -       -       2.00       FAC     Foulaya
Cooperative Specialist                 -           -      3.00     3.00       IDA     HO/Fieid
Total                             18.75       7.25      3.00    29.00
B. Cost Not Included in Project b/
Tree Crops Agronomist                3.00          -        -      3.00     CIRAD    Seredou
Soil Conservation Specialist         3.00          -        -      3.00      IFAD     Bareng
Fruit Crop Agronoeist                3.00          -        -      3.00      FAC      Foulaya
Total                              9.00         -         -      9.00
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANTS (Man-Month)
Land Use                             2.00          -               2.00      EDF
Weed Control                         2.50          -               2.50      EDF
Legune Crops                         2.00          -               2.00      EDF
Root Crops                           2.00          -               2.00      EDF
Annual Auditing                      2.50       2.50               5.00      IDA
Audio-Visual, Ext.hethods              -        19.00       --  -19.00        IDA
Total                             11.00      21.50              32.50
al FAC contracts are for minimum tmo years renevable; only two
years, already approved, have been included.
b/ Participation not yet confirmed.



--t
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AIIOROIAL RESEARCH ANID EITENSION PROJECT
Economic Analvsis
Economic Rate of Return
Economic benefits       a/                      P         c/  Y         PY2 PI3              FYI       P5 FI    PY5  P96    P7        FYB       PY9       PYO    PFYI        PY12       PY13      PY14       PY15     PFl6       FPY17      Py1       FY19
Rice Daddy                                                     lB        56       120       201        297       380        450       493       597        611       616       616        616       62b6       626       626        626       626        626
Mai ze                                                          9        297       5         94        134       168        190       204       259        262       263        263       263       269        269       269        269       269        269
Groundnuts decartinue                                           6        17        34         5        78        97        110       119        124       125       126        126       126        126       126        126       126        126       126
Manioc                                                          6        20        45         77       115       151        179       197       307        211       212        2!2       212       212        212       212        212       212        212
Total Econonic Benefits                                       39        ;22       257       427        625       796        930      1lul      1187       12Y9      1217      1217       1217      1233       1233      12;        1233      1233       1233
Econotic tCots bh
Extension                                          135       594        517       476       539        471       150        100       100        80         80       100         60        80        I0' Bo                8n       10I         00        80
Trainino                                             0       204        152       129        99         84        44         I         10         10        10        10         10        10         10        10         10        to         10        to
Management Support                                   0       170         76        95        10'        70        41         2t        !0         10        10         10        10        10         10        10         10        10         10        10
Total Economic Costs                               135       969        745       700       7 3        625       235        151       120        100       100       120        100       TOO        120       1o0        100       120        100       100
NET BENEFITS                                      -135      -929       -622      -443      -311         -1       561        779       893      1087       1109      1097       1117      1117       1113      11 3      1133       1113      1133       1133 t
===       ===       =:=        -=        ==e        ===       ===        :=        :=       ==          ==       =:         :=        ==         ==        =:         ==        =:         ==        == 
Economic Rate of Return         ======>   0.19956810
Assuaotions Underlyino Calculation of ERR
Costs    All incremental costs mncludino  TA included.  Recurrent costs and benefits from PPY also included recurrent costs of about F6100 million per nnum starting in Y9 have been Included deemed necessary to maintain
minimue level of technologv difussion under an alreadv primed systn which mill not require excessive isvestments.  The remainder time of eutnsion agents mill be used to expand developement beyond the targets o
this project.
Prices   Economic faregate prices have been calculated for rice and maize using projected  torld market prices for thene products as presented in the November 1986 IB0 Conmodity Price forecast.  for qroundnuts and
-------   cassava. tWeY  ere calculated on the prices prevalent on lucal markets.
Benefits mere estimated based on area cDvered by the FENs assuming that it mill take six years for thee to reach 252 of the area covered.  In addition, no be.,efits are assuemed during the first year for neu FEWs.
-------- (see footnote c/ below).
Other    Prsiect life ystieated in 20 years: costs include physical continQencies at ra!es specified In para 4.22: and all costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1988 prices net of taxes and duties.
The NP1   of additional production, distounted at 10  the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Guinea is about F62.1 billion  US54.8 million).  The oittout protect production has been assusmed to remain constant.
a) Economic Costs = proiect costs - tanes.  All further assumptions are detailed in 6orking Paper 2 
bh  From lorbino Paper 2.
cl Although FEis were at work at the beoinning of YO all benefits have been delaved one year assumeino new FENs would need additional training during the first year.                                                                                       4



- 45 -
ANNEX 15
REPUBLIC OF 6UINEA
tNATIONAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Farmoate Prices
(1983 Constant Prices)
Paddy Rice                                     Maize
1989     t990        1995     2000               1989      1990     1995      2000
-----1988 USS PRICES/TON------                 ----1988 USS.PRICE6/.TON-------
F.O.B. a/                        239.0    240.0       293.0    299.0         a/     88.4      85.6    130.5    136.0
FREIGHT AND INSURANCE  b/         45.0      45.0       45.0      45.0        b/     35.0      35.0     35.0      35.0
C.I.F. CONAKRY                   284.0    285.0       338.0    344.0               123.4    120.6    165.5    171.0
---1988  (OOOF.6.)/TON------                    -----1988 (OOOF.6.)/TON--------
F.O.B. cl                        126.4    126.8       150.4    153.1         c/     54.9      53.7     73.6      76.1
PORT HAND./ STORAGE                8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0                8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
OVERHEAD/MAR61N dl                13.7      14.6        14.9 -   15.2        d/      6.8       7.6      7.8       7.9
WHOLESALE VALUE CONAKRY          148.1    149.4       173.3    176.3                69.7      69.3     89.4      92.0
TRANSP.CKRY/REGION. MARKET e/   39.0        39.0       39.0      69.0        e/     39.0      39.0     3?.0      39.0
REFERENCE MARKET PRICE           187.1    188.4       212.'.   215.J               108.7    108.3    128.4    131.0
EWUIVALENT PADDY 6'%             121.6    122.5       138.0    139.9
TRANSP.FARM-RE61NAL MARKET f/  10,0         10.0       10.0      10.0        f/     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
PROCESSIN6 AND MARKETIN6 c/        P.O       8.0        8.0       8.0       4/       8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0
STORAGE LOSSES 5%                  6.1       6.1        6.9       7.0                5.4       5.4      6.4       6.5
97.5     98.4       113.1    114.9               85.3      84.9    104.0    106.4
Paddv Rice                                                                   Maize
al Bank January 1988 commodity price projections FOB Banokok 5S              al Bank January 1988 commodity price
broken.                                                                     projections; FOB maize US 6ulf ports
b/ Estimated freint., and insurance Banokok-Conakry.                         b/ Estimated freioht and insurance
c/ Converted at F6445 = US51.                                                   charges Gulf w6rts-Conakry.
d/ Iaoorter's overhead and handlino costs estimated at 10  of CIF          cl Converted at F6445 - US$1.
pius port handlino and storage charges.                                  di laporter's overhead and handlinQ
e/ Transport between Conakry and regional market where output will              costs estimated at 10% of CIF plus
be sold.  Average distance of 600 km 8 F665/ton/km.  April 1988 ot handlina and storage costs.
f/ Transport between farm  and reoional market.  Average distance           el  ransport befween Conakry and
100 ka 8 F6/ton/ke.                                                         reoional sarket where project
g9  Milling, bagging and primary marketing.                                     oufout will be sald.  Averane
distance 600 km 8 F665/tonl/i.
f/ Transport between farm and reqional
market. Average distance 100lka 8
F6100/ton/pa.
g/ Bagging and primary marketing.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 1
to              4n
-                           .'WOWflEN &TSDWVDAML&S ~~~~~~~~MA-1                  I        >41 
GUiNE21A              K \- Alo2 ' 0*
BISSAU   >                     <             *z.ca '               yv>                                        +                         '
C~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT
FD    E                 T                                9X~~~~~~~~~~~IVOIRE
Tom           ca E6TEN.  XROJET NATIONAL                                       '                                                   _
.4                   rS    1-M              DE RECHERCHE                       'r' - '                                                #0
AM WE cotAunVVOEYU                                ETODE VUILGARISATION  ,Y \ < . f *   S
P1JE)CT AMA 0M - EXTENMM                       RVEARCH CENTERS-_
"W DU PRCtA,r- VLLtaAYL4Z                 *        CE    S R 06                              -f,,
SOGKFPH                                 0      PCTtJIE                          GuockRE9     ewa-  \\>        t      \ 
,   ! P>b (EiTZa                (3      ~~~~P>ROMM HEADfOUAFRrERS    }        * -,\,&ut     
' ZUAL/OLOWAA U^XXX!J  NAOA CAP1U!1T(ALA'>U 
VAD *ktUXWN 5/8%                                  i  PREFZ TUt BlOUNAFISS/    a  
I PM JT KEW OM                                     tMATIOAL BOtMAlES 2;''*js  
'NJw K~ OM                                                              .NNOW723mv  J  ...E   w . v       -       r 
co ~~~ NM **o'.S



