Page  1
January 15, 1993
H.E. Soriba Kaba
            Minister of Planning and Finance
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Conakry
Guinea
     Re:  Credit No. 1955 GUI
          (National Research and Extension Project)
          Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency,
     Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the
Agreement), dated November 29, 1988, between the Republic of Guinea
(the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
Association), as amended by letter of August 31, 1992.
     Pursuant to the request of the Minister of Agriculture and
Animal Resources, dated September 11, 1992, we are pleased to inform
you that the Association hereby agrees to amend as follows Sections
1.02 (a) and 2.02 (b) of the Agreement as well as Schedules 4 and 1
thereto.
     Section 1.02 (a) is revised to read as follows:
     Quote "Special Account" means any of the special deposit
     accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     Unquote
     Section 2.02 (b) is revised to read as follows:
     Quote The Borrower shall for the purposes of Parts A, B, and
     C of the Project open and maintain in dollars special deposit
     accounts (hereinafter referred to as Special Account A, B, and
     C, respectively) in a commercial bank acceptable to the
     Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
     Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
     seizure or attachment.
     Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be
     make in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
     Agreement.  Unquote
     Schedule 4 is revised to read in its entirety as set out in
Attachment 1 hereto.
     The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is revised to
read in its entirety as set out in Attachment 2 hereto.
     With the exception of the revision of Schedule 1,
implementation of the amendments set out above is conditional on:
(1)  receipt by the Association of evidence satisfactory to it that
either the current Special Account has been fully justified and
closed or the balance refunded to the Association; and
(2)  receipt by the Association of evidence satisfactory to it that
the ministerial tutelage over the agricultural cooperatives has been
transferred from the Ministry of Interior and Security to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources.
     In addition, the Borrower designates the following officials
as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of Section 2.02
of the Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
Page  2
     (a)  the Director of the Guinean Institute of Agronomic
     Research for Part A of the Project;
     (b)  the Director of the National Agricultural Extension
     Project, of Part B of the Project; and
     (c)  The Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and
     Animal Resources, for Part C of the Project.
     This letter supersedes our letter of December 3, 1992,
proposing an amendment to the Agreement.
     Please confirm your agreement with this amendment of the
Agreement by signing, dating and returning the form of confirmation
on the enclosed copy of this letter. This amendment shall become
effective upon receipt by the Association of the duly signed copy.
Sincerely yours,
Director
Occidental and Central
Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
By
Minister of Planning and Finance
Date: 5 FEV. 1993
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  The term "Eligible Categories" means the following
categories as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement:
     (i)  Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a), 4, 5 (a) and 6 for
     Special Account A;
     (ii) Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 4, 5 (b) and 6 for
     Special Account B; and
     (iii)Categories 2 (c), 3 (c), 4 and 5 (c) for Special Account
     C;
     (b)  The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  The term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) for Special
Account A an amount equivalent to US$200,000 to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account A; (ii) for
Special Account B an amount equivalent to US$350,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account B; and
(iii) for Special Account C an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account
C. All deposits into any Special Account shall be in accordance with
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures from the Eligible Categories corresponding
to such Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
Page  3
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation corresponding to that Special Account and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account may be made
as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
     On the basis of such request or requests the Association
shall, on behalf of  the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the corresponding Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of any Special Account, the
          Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
          deposits into such Special Account at such intervals as
          the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
          Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
          and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
          this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
          which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
          such request, the Association shall withdraw from the
          Credit Account and deposit into the corresponding
          Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
          requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
          and other evidence to have been made out of such Special
          Account for Eligible Expenditures from Eligible
          Categories corresponding to that Special Account.  All
          such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
          the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
          Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
          shall have been justified by said documents and other
          evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures from Eligible Categories corresponding to such
Special Account.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
     (i)  If, at any time, the Association shall have determined
     that all further withdrawals from the Eligible Categories
     corresponding to such Special Account should be made by the
     Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
     the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
     paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (ii) Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
     allocated to the Eligible Categories corresponding to such
     Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special
     commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
     5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Eligible
     Expenditures under Eligible Categories corresponding to such
     Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
     amount of the corresponding Authorized Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories corresponding to such Special Account shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Page  4
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures from Eligible Categories corresponding to such Special
Account.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account:
     (i)  was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
     pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
     (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
     Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
     Association:
     (A)  provide such additional evidence as the Association may
     request; or
     (B)  deposit into such Special Account (or, if the
     Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
     amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
     thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
     shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
     into such Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
     provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
     case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures from
Eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount;
     (a)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association and
with the Association's consent, refund to the Association all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account; and
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a) , (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for cancellation or subsequent withdrawal as the Association
may determine.
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated        % of
                           (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
1.  Civil works:
(a) for Part A                  690,000           100%
(b) for Part B                  770,000           100%
2.  Vehicles and equipment:
(a) for Parts A and E.1       1,230,000           100%
(b) for Part B and E.2        1,770,000           100%
Page  5
(c) for Part C                  170,000           100%
3.  Consultants' Services
(a)  for Part A               1,080,000           100%
(b)  for Part B               1,310,000           100%
(c)  for Part C                 310,000           100%
4.  Fellowships                 770,000           100%
5.  Operating Costs:
(a) for Parts A and E-1       1,310,000
(b) for Parts B and E.2       2,240,000           90%
(c) for Part C                  150,000
6.  Goods and services
    for Part D                  690,000          100%
7.  Refunding of Project
    Preparation Advance         468,000          Amount due pursuant
                                                 to Section 2.02 (b)
                                                 of this Agreement
8.  Unallocated               1,242,000
               TOTAL         14,200,000
     The following are the percentages of expenditures to  be
financed for Categories 5 (a) and 5 (c):
     90% in 1988 and 1989; 85% in 1990; 75% in 1991;
     5O% in 1992; and 40% thereafter.
