Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1955 GUI
             (National Research and Extension Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 29, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 29,  1988,  between the REPUBLIC OF
GUINEA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has obtained  from the European Development
Fund (EDF) a grant  (the  EDF  Grant)  in  an amount equivalent to
$6,100,000 to assist in  financing  Part  A  of the Project on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the EDF Grant
Agreement) between the Borrower and EDF, dated November 19, 1987;
     (C)  the Borrower has obtained  from  the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation  (FAC)  a  grant  (the  FAC  Grant) in an amount
equivalent to about $1,600,000  to  assist  in financing Part A of
the Project on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in agreements
entered  into  between  the  Borrower   and  FAC  (the  FAC  Grant
Agreements);
Page  2
     (D)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $1,900,000  to  assist in financing Part A
of the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in an
agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and IFAD; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the two project pre-
paration advances  granted  by  the  Association  to  the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of  letters  dated  July 22, 1986, August 7,
1986, July 21, 1987  and  September  8, 1987, between the Borrower
and the Association;
     (c)  "DRA" means Direction de la Recherche Agronomique, SERS'
directorate responsible for agricultural research;
     (d)  "GNF" means Guinean Franc, the currency of the Borrower;
     (e)  "MARA"  means   Ministere   de   l'Agriculture   et  des
Ressources Animales, the  Borrower's  ministry  of agriculture and
animal resources;
     (f)  "SED" means  Secretariat  d'Etat  a la Decentralisation,
the Borrower's department in charge of decentralization;
     (g)  "SERS" means Secretariat d'Etat  a la Recherche Scienti-
fique, the Borrower's department in charge of scientific research;
     (h)  "SNATC" means  Service  National  d'Assistance Technique
aux Cooperatives, an  agency  of  the  Borrower  to be established
pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Extension Unit" means the unit of MARA in charge of the
implementation of Part  B  of  the  Project  and formerly known as
"Projet Pilote de Vulgarisation Agricole"; and
     (j)  "Revolving Account" means  one  of the accounts referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
Page  3
equivalent  to  fourteen  million  two  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,200,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  March  1 and September 1
commencing March  1,  1999,  and  ending  September  1, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
Page  4
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MARA, SERS and  SNATC  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative,  financial, research
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall maintain  in  a commercial bank three
separate revolving accounts in  GNF  for  the exclusive purpose of
Parts A and E.1 of the  Project (Revolving Account A), Parts B and
E.2 of the Project (Revolving Account B) and Part C of the Project
(Revolving Account C), respectively.  After  an initial deposit of
GNF 25,000,000 in Revolving Account A, GNF 30,000,000 in Revolving
Account B and GNF 10,000,000  in Revolving Account C, the Borrower
shall replenish said accounts, as and when required to ensure that
on the first day of  each  calendar  quarter an amount equal to at
least the initial deposit shall  be available in each such account
to finance the Borrower's  contribution  to  the estimated cost of
the respective Parts of the Project for the said quarter.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  authorize  the  director of DRA, the
director of the Extension Unit  and  the director of SNATC to make
payments out of the  corresponding  revolving accounts for amounts
not exceeding that of the corresponding initial deposit.
     (d)  The Borrower  shall:  (i)  authorize  the  head  of each
agricultural research center to  open  and  maintain an account in
Guinean Francs  at  a  commercial  bank;  and  (ii) replenish such
accounts from time to  time  to  ensure  that adequate amounts are
available in each such  account  to finance operating expenditures
of such center.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
Page  5
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than June 30, 1989, employ:
          (i)  an  agricultural  socio-economist   to  assist  the
               director of DRA in  carrying out diagnostic surveys
               and   socio-economic   evaluations   of  production
               alternatives and on-farm research;
         (ii)  an extension specialist  to  assist the director of
               the Extension Unit in  organizing and managing said
               unit;
        (iii)  a  training  specialist  to   assist  DRA  and  the
               Extension Unit in carrying out Parts A.2 and B.7 of
               the Project; and
         (iv)  one or more expert(s) to assist the Extension Unit,
               DRA and SNATC  in  preparing a financial management
               and  control  system   for   the   Project  and  in
               implementing and monitoring such system; and
     (b)  not  later  than  the  first  day  such  consultants are
employed:  (i)  assign  at  least  one  qualified  and experienced
counterpart staff to  work  with  each  such  consultant; and (ii)
provide adequate office space, equipment and supplies to each such
consultant.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1989, enact instruments  detailing the respective responsibilities
of MARA and SERS in agricultural research.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  not  later  than November 30, 1990,
review and evaluate its  institutional  framework and programs for
agricultural research, discuss  the recommendations resulting from
the conclusion of such  review  with the Association, and promptly
thereafter  implement  such  recommendations  as  shall  have been
satisfactory to the Association.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  DRA  at an institutional
level at least equivalent to that of a direction nationale and, as
long as DRA is  part  of  SERS,  the  Director of DRA shall report
directly to the Secretary of State for Scientific Research.
     (d)  The agricultural research  centers shall report directly
to the director of DRA.
     Section  3.05.  (a)  The   Borrower  shall,  not  later  than
March 31, 1989,  establish,  and  thereafter  maintain, a National
Research   and   Extension   Committee,   comprising   inter  alia
representatives   of   farmers   groups,   researchers,  extension
specialists and, in an observer capacity, concerned donors.
     (b)  Said committee  shall  be  responsible  inter  alia for:
(i) advising DRA, the research  centers  and the Extension Unit on
the formulation of  research  and extension objectives, priorities
and programs; (ii) coordinating research and extension activities;
and (iii) not later than October 31 of each year starting in 1989,
reviewing and  advising  the  Borrower  on  research and extension
programs and budgets prior to  their submission to the Association
for comments.
     Section 3.06. For the purposes  of  Parts  A.2 and B.7 of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than  June  30,  1989,  subject to a technical
qualification test satisfactory to  the Association all candidates
for training on  foreign  fellowships  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
Page  6
     (b)  submit to the Association  for  its comments the program
for the training to be undertaken by such candidates; and
     (c)  take all necessary  measures  to  ensure  that all staff
having received such training  remain,  for  a  period of at least
three years after its completion, assigned to tasks for which they
were trained.
     Section 3.07. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than June 30,
1989, establish an  autonomous  national agricultural cooperatives
support  agency;  said  agency,   with  a  mandate  and  structure
satisfactory  to  the   Association,   shall   inter  alia  extend
administrative  and  financial  support  to  farmers'  groups  and
cooperatives  providing  agricultural  services  (including  input
supply, marketing, credit and savings) to their members.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower  shall,  not  later than March 31,
1989, submit to the Association for its approval a detailed action
plan for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices: (i) the operations, resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof; and  (ii)  the operation and financial condi-
tion of SNATC.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account, for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
Page  7
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than June 30,
1989: (a) establish a closing  balance sheet at December 31, 1988,
for each agricultural research  center  and the pilot agricultural
extension project; and (b)  set  up  a financial management system
for Project activities.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the
Project, authorize the director  of  DRA  and  the director of the
Extension Unit to commit  expenditures  in an amount not exceeding
the threshold at  which  the  Borrower's  procurement code becomes
applicable.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any of the  instruments  governing  MARA, SERS, SNATC or
the committee referred to in  Section 3.05 of this Agreement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed or waived so as
to affect in  the  Association's  opinion materially and adversely
the ability of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations
under this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
Page  8
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  Revolving  Accounts  A  and   B   referred  to  in  Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement  have been opened and the Borrower
has deposited therein  the  initial  amounts  referred  to in said
Section; and
     (b)  an action  plan,  satisfactory  to  the Association, has
been adopted in order  to  comply  with the Borrower's obligations
with regard to external debt reporting to the World Bank.
     Section 6.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          B.P. 579
          Conakry
          Republic of Guinea
                                              Telex:
                                                 22399 MIFI
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                          By /s/ Kekoura Camara
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  for Part A               690,000       100%
     (b)  for Part B               770,000       100%
(2)  Vehicles and
     equipment:
     (a)  for Parts A            1,230,000       100%
          and E.1
     (b)  for Parts B            1,770,000       100%
          and E.2
     (c)  for Part C                80,000       100%
(3)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a)  for Part A             1,080,000       100%
     (b)  for Part B             1,310,000       100%
     (c)  for Part C               310,000       100%
(4)  Fellowships                   770,000       100%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Operating                                   90% in 1988
     costs:                                      and 1989; 85%
                                                 in 1990; 75%
     (a)  for Parts A            1,310,000       in 1991; 50%
          and E.1                                in 1992; and
                                                 finally 40%
     (b)  for Parts B            2,240,000       in 1993 and
          and E.2                                1994
     (c)  for Part C               150,000
(6)  Goods and services            690,000       100%
     for Part D
Page  10
(7)  Refunding of                  680,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                 1,120,000
                                 _________
     TOTAL                      14,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means expenditures for  salaries  of  temporary incremental staff,
salary  bonuses  and   travel   expenses,  vehicle  operation  and
maintenance and  office  supplies  for Project-related activities,
all such  expenditures  to  be  incurred  in  accordance  with the
Borrower's own regulations as shall  have been satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments  for  expenditures  to  be  financed  from  the
proceeds of the Credit allocated  to Categories (2)(c), (3)(c) and
(5)(c), unless SNATC  has  been  established, its regulations have
been  adopted  and  are   satisfactory  to  the  Association,  and
Revolving Account C has been opened and the Borrower has deposited
GNF  10,000,000  therein  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  payments  for  expenditures  to  be  financed  from  the
proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  (6), unless the
Borrower has submitted for each project preparation activity to be
undertaken a detailed list of activities to be carried out, and of
their justification, cost, financing and procurement, all of which
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  farmers  in
increasing the productivity of their farming systems.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Research
1.   Strengthening  of  SERS'  capacity  to  plan  and  administer
research programs.
2.   Training of staff in Guinea and overseas.
3.   Applied Research:
     (a)  Identification,  selection  and  testing  of  local  and
          introduced  plant  materials   and   of  new  production
          techniques  for  the  country's  various agro-ecological
          conditions on six selected research centers (on station,
          on off-station sites and on farmers' fields).
     (b)  Construction or  rehabilitation  of  farm infrastructure
          and office and laboratory space.
     (c)  Acquisition  of  farm   and   laboratory  equipment  and
Page  11
          vehicles.
4.   Adaptive Research:
     (a)  Diagnostic surveys  of  farming  systems and constraints
          and  farmers'  needs  in   the  country's  four  natural
          regions.
     (b)  Carrying out  of  trials  to  test  the adaptability and
          acceptability   of   plant   materials   and  production
          techniques,  including  replicated  experiments  on off-
          station sites and tests on farmers' fields.
     (c)  Acquisition   of   small   agricultural   equipment  and
          materials and vehicles for DRA.
Part B:   Extension Services
1.   Strengthening  of  MARA's  capacity  to  plan  and administer
extension programs at field and headquarters levels.
2.   Implementation of the  training-and-visit  system of delivery
of technical messages to farmers.
3.   Development of demonstration plots.
4.   Increase in the delivery  of  extension services by women and
adaptation of messages to fit the needs of women farmers.
5.   Construction or rehabilitation of offices and training space.
6.   Acquisition of vehicles,  motorcycles, bicycles, audio-visual
and other teaching equipment.
7.   Training of staff in Guinea and overseas.
Part C:   Development of Agricultural Cooperatives
1.   Establishment of a national agricultural cooperatives support
agency.
2.   Provision of management  assistance,  training, and audit and
other services to farmers' credit and marketing cooperatives.
Part D:   Project Preparation Activities
     Identification   and   preparation   of   projects   in   the
agricultural sector for financing by external donors.
Part E:   Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   Establishment  and  implementation   of   a  system  for  the
monitoring and evaluation of Part A of the Project.
2.   Establishment  and  implementation   of   a  system  for  the
monitoring and evaluation of Part B of the Project.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  12
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic
of Guinea may  be  granted  a  margin  of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $100,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000, and  civil  works  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Goods  and  civil  works  estimated  to  cost  less  than the
equivalent of $30,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,500,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   (a)  Payments  out  of  the  Special  Account  shall  be made
exclusively  for  eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this Schedule.
     (b)  The Borrower  authorizes  the  director  of  DRA and the
director of the Extension Unit to make payments out of the Special
Account in amounts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
               the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
Page  14
               been shown by said  documents and other evidence to
               have been  made  out  of  the  Special  Account for
               eligible expenditures. All  such  deposits shall be
               withdrawn  by  the   Association  from  the  Credit
               Account under  the  respective eligible Categories,
               and in the respective  equivalent amounts, as shall
               have been  justified  by  said  documents and other
               evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account the Borrower shall, at  such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
          (i)  if,  at  any  time,   the  Association  shall  have
               determined that all  further  withdrawals should be
               made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the Credit
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Article   V   of   the   General   Conditions   and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  once the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories,  less the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered  into  by   the   Association  pursuant  to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
               to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may,  upon  notice  to  the Association and
with the Association's consent,  refund  to the Association all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  cancellation   or   subsequent   withdrawal  as  the
Page  15
Association may determine.
