Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H347 - ET 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Protection of Basic Services Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 17, 2008  
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H347 - ET 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated January 17, 2008, entered into between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount of one hundred 
thirty-seven million fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 137,050,000) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Financing in 
accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out sub-component 1 (i) of the Project 
(Component 1 of the Original Project) and sub-component 1 (ii) of the Project 
(the pilot Local Investment Grant scheme) through MOFED, 
Component 2 of the Original Project through MOH, and Component 3 of the 
Original Project through MOFED, all in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness are:  
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the revised PBS Operational Manual in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b) 
terms of reference for the annual audits of the Recipient’s Financial 
Statements, to be undertaken pursuant to the provisions of 
Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have been agreed with 
the Association.   
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of finance 
and economic development.  
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
P.O.Box 1905 
Addis Ababa 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
2114  
251-11551355 
2115 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
4
-
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By  /s/ Sufian Ahmed 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to protect the delivery of basic services by 
 
Sub-national Governments while promoting and deepening transparency and 
accountability in service delivery.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:
Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national 
Governments
(i) 
Promoting the delivery of basic services by Regional Governments and 
Local Authorities through the implementation of Subprogram A for core 
basic services which include education, health, water supply and 
sanitation, agriculture and natural resources. 
(ii) 
Establishment and implementation, on a pilot basis, of a specific purpose 
grant facility for capital expenditure at the local level through the 
implementation of a Local Investment Grant scheme (LIG) as 
Subprogram D. 
Part 2:
Promoting the Health Millennium Development Goals
Carrying out of Subprogram B by contributing funds to a Health Millennium 
Development Goals Performance Facility to finance: 
 
(i) 
critical inputs for primary health service delivery such as vaccines, 
contraceptives, long-lasting insecticide-treated mosquito nets, malaria 
drugs, insecticides, spray pumps and equipment; 
 
(ii) 
capacity building activities, including investment in human resources, 
monitoring and evaluation, as well as operational research and other 
activities at the MOH level; and  
(iii) 
strengthening of procurement and logistics
,
including provision of 
training and technical assistance to selected staff in MOH on 
international procurement,
 
establishment of a Central Medical Store, and 
strengthening of the national distribution system. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Part 3:
Strengthening Government Systems on Financial Transparency and 
Accountability
Carrying out of Subprogram C, including:   
(i) 
enhancing transparency around public budget procedures (preparation, 
expenditure and audits) and improving public disclosure of budget 
information at the Regional and Local Authorities levels;  
(ii) 
fostering citizens’ understanding of, and engagement with, public budget 
processes; 
(iii) 
improving public disclosure by service facilities such as schools and 
health clinics of their annual budgets, resource levels (e.g. staffing 
allocations), agreed performance standards and indicators established at 
the Woreda and/or Regional level; 
(iv) 
monitoring and evaluation activities to assess progress made against the 
core objectives, such as carrying out financial transparency and 
accountability perception surveys, reviews and assessments; and  
(v) 
financing the services of accountants and IT personnel to be hired by 
MOFED and regional BOFEDs to enhance their capacity, provision of 
technical assistance to the Regions and Local Authorities, building 
capacity in OFAG, conduct of continuous audits by OFAG and provision 
of goods for both MOFED and OFAG. 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. General
The Recipient shall carry out the Original Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual throughout the period of implementation. The Recipient 
shall ensure that the Operational Manual for the PBS Project is amended and/or 
extended, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, as necessary to 
reflect the activities and implementation arrangements for the Additional 
Financing.  
 
B. 
Subprograms A and C
1. 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
 
(a) 
At the federal level, the Recipient shall cause MOFED to be responsible 
for coordination, monitoring and oversight of the implementation of 
Parts 1 and 3 of the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
For this purpose, MOFED shall liaise with Pooled Funding A Partners as 
required. MOFED’s primary responsibilities shall include:  
(i) 
making timely transfers of Subprogram A and C resources to 
Regions and Local Authorities as per agreed fiscal transfer 
formulae, ensuring effective financial management and 
compliance with fiduciary requirements; 
(ii) 
managing the implementation of various technical assistance and 
systems development activities to ensure transparent budget 
execution, enhanced fiscal reporting, and improved monitoring 
of key results for the delivery of basic services;  
(iii) 
improving financial transparency and social accountability for 
public expenditures and basic services delivery at regional, local 
and service facility levels; 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iv) 
coordinating with the Key Line Ministries, their counterpart 
Regional sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices, as necessary, 
for the implementation of Parts 1 and 3 of the Project;  
(v) 
ensuring that Regional sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices 
disseminate service facility related information; and 
(vi) 
ensuring that councils at Regional and Local Authority levels
 
review and approve work plans and budgets in a timely manner.   
(b) 
At the regional level, the Recipient shall cause the 
Bureaus of Finance 
and Economic Development 
to:  
(i) 
transfer Subprogram A and C resources to Local Authorities 
based on agreed plans for delivery of basic services;  
(ii) 
coordinate Project implementation and launch start-up activities;  
(iii) 
mobilize technical assistance from other line agencies as may be 
required;  
(iv) 
review and consolidate progress reports from Local Authorities, 
and provide feedback, as necessary; and 
(v) 
monitor and evaluate overall performance and resource use.  
(c) 
At the local level, the Recipient shall cause 
Woreda Offices of Finance 
and Economic Development 
and
 Urban Administration Offices of 
Finance 
to be responsible for managing and coordinating the day-to-day 
implementation of Project activities.  WOFEDs and UAOFs shall 
undertake operational tasks such as planning, supervision, financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation.   
2. 
Ministry of Capacity Building
 
The Recipient shall cause the MCB at the federal level and bureaus at regional 
and local levels to collaborate closely with MOFED in the overall coordination 
and implementation of Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual, ensuring appropriate focus on the capacity building aspects of planned 
Page  11
-
9
-
interventions, fostering proper alignment with national capacity building efforts, 
and building on the experience of related ongoing programs and interventions.  
C. Subprogram 
B
1. 
Ministry of Health 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the MOH
 
to be responsible for overall 
implementation of Subprogram B in accordance with the Operational 
Manual.
 
The 
Central Joint Steering Committee
,
Regional Joint Steering 
Committees
 and 
Woreda Joint Steering Committees 
respectively, at 
federal, regional and local levels, shall assist MOH in the implementation 
of Subprogram B in accordance with the Operational Manual and as set 
forth below. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the Recipient 
shall cause CJSC to ensure that:  
(i) 
procurement and logistics plans are appropriately drawn up and 
implemented;  
(ii) 
procurement is timely and commodities are efficiently and 
equitably distributed to beneficiary institutions in the Regions 
and at local levels;   
(iii) 
capacity building plans are fully implemented;  
(iv) 
quarterly meetings are held with RJSCs to assess the 
implementation of Subprogram B and make recommendations, 
as necessary; and  
(v) 
regular quarterly reports are provided to the Recipient on the 
status of implementation of Subprogram B for consolidation into 
the Project Reports submitted to the Association.  
(c) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the functions 
of RJSCs in the implementation of Subprogram B shall include:  
(i) 
regular supervision of implementation of Subprogram B in the 
Region concerned;  
Page  12
-
10 -
(ii) 
holding of quarterly meetings with WJSCs to assess the status of 
implementation and agree on next steps; and  
(iii) 
participation in quarterly meetings of the CJSC and submission 
to it of regular quarterly reports covering aspects such as finance, 
service delivery outputs and outcomes, availability of technical 
staff and commodities, challenges encountered during 
implementation and actions taken.   
(d) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the 
responsibilities of WJSCs in the implementation of Subprogram B shall 
include:  
(i) 
regular transportation of commodities and equipment from 
designated medical stores to health institutions at local levels;  
(ii) 
ensuring of timely, need-based distribution of items to health 
facilities;  
(iii) 
review of monthly institutional reports and provision of 
recommendations, as necessary;  
(iv) 
holding of quarterly meetings to assess implementation status 
and agree on next steps;  
(v) 
submission of quarterly reports to the relevant RJSC; and  
(vi) 
participation in RJSC quarterly meetings.  
D. 
Subprogram D
1.
 
The Recipient shall carry out the pilot LIG component of Subprogram D in 
accordance with the LIG Operational Manual.  
2.
 
The Recipient shall cause the Macroeconomic Policy and Management 
Department within MOFED or other department to be designated by MOFED to 
be responsible for the overall implementation, coordination, monitoring and 
oversight of Subprogram D in accordance with the LIG Operational Manual. 
Page  13
-
11 -
E. Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
F. 
Environmental and Social Safeguards
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the: (i) Guidelines 
for Handling and Disposal of Medical Waste; (ii) Guidelines for Malaria Vector 
Control; and (iii) Guidelines for Indoor Residual Insecticide Spraying.  
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the pilot LIG subcomponent is carried out in 
accordance with the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) 
and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) prepared for the purposes of the 
construction of small-scale civil works under Subprogram D. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports
The monitoring and evaluation arrangements established for the Original Project 
will continue under the Additional Financing as follows: 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph as agreed between 
the Recipient and the Association.  Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of six (6) months, and shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than three (3) months after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
The aggregate level of Block Grant transfers including 
Subprogram A resources (Federal Government to Regions) 
increases from the recorded 9.6 billion Birr assessed in EFY99 
by 4 billion Birr for EFY00, and further increases in EFY01 at a 
level commensurate with local and external revenue 
mobilization.  
Page  14
-
12 -
(ii) 
Block Grant transfers to Local Authorities including 
Subprogram A resources are in accordance with 
intergovernmental fiscal rules.  
 
(iii) 
Proportion of children vaccinated against DPT3+HepB3+Hib3 
increases to 80% in EFY00 relative to 75.6% in EFY98. 
 
(iv) 
The contraceptive prevalence rate increases to 55% in EFY00 
from 35.8% in EFY98.  
 
(v) 
Percentage of pilot woredas adopting and implementing new 
national standards and systems in the areas of planning and 
budgeting, procurement, environmental screening and 
resettlement, increases. 
 (vi) 
Increased citizens’ understanding of, and engagement in public 
budget processes by EFY01 as assessed by a quantitative survey, 
as compared to EFY00. 
2. 
During Project implementation, the Recipient shall ensure that at least three Joint 
Budget and Aid Reviews (JBARs) are carried out, pursuant to the provisions of 
the Operational Manual. Unless otherwise agreed with the Association, the 
JBARs shall be carried out according to the following schedule: 
 
(a) 
First JBAR in April 2008;  
 
(b) 
Second JBAR in October 2008; and 
 (c) 
Third JBAR in April 2009. 
3. 
The Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
by February 28, 2008, complete field work for a baseline financial 
transparency and accountability perception survey;  
 
(b) 
by April 30, 2008: (i) complete field work for of a quantitative health 
service delivery survey; and (ii) confirm availability of financing for 
behaviour change communication toolkits and health extension worker 
training; 
Page  15
-
13 -
(c) 
by February 28, 2009, begin field work for a follow-up of the financial 
transparency and accountability perception survey referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph; and 
 
(d) 
by May 31, 2009, complete a post procurement audit covering a 
minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the pilot LIG woredas under 
Subprogram D. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and submit to the Association not later than three (3) months after the 
end of each Ethiopian fiscal quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the 
Project, in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period.    
4. 
The Recipient shall also cause OFAG to audit, on a continuous basis, samples of 
Regions and Local Authorities that have received funds under Subprograms A 
and D. The Recipient shall cause OFAG to provide the Association with 
quarterly summaries of these audit findings, within three (3) months of the end of 
each Ethiopian fiscal quarter. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Additional Financing shall be procured in 
Page  16
-
14 -
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. Domestic preference will 
apply when included in bidding documents.  
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Methods 
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Procurement from U
nited Nations Children’s Fund  
(UNICEF) and United Nations Population Fund 
(UNFPA) 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For the purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, per contract, 
may include only consultants from the country of the Recipient. 
Page  17
-
15 -
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may b
e
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c)  Single Source Selection  
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e)  Community Participation 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Procurement of goods, works and services under Subprogram D shall be subject 
to Post Review on a sample basis. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts under Subprograms B and C shall be subject to Prior 
Review by the Association:  
 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or 
more; (b) all contracts procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (c) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (e) all contracts for 
consultants selected on Single Source basis.  All other contracts for 
Subprograms B and C shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  18
-
16 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Additional Financing
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Additional Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Additional 
Financing (“Category”), the 
allocations of the amounts of the Additional Financing to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each 
Category: 
 
Categories 
Amount of the 
Additional Financing 
(expressed in SDR) 
%
of expenditures 
to be financed 
1. Subprogram 
A 
 
105,090,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
2. Subprogram 
B 
 
18,580,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
3. 
Subprogram 
C 
640,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
 
4. 
Subprogram 
D 
12,740,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
TOTAL 
137,050,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
(a) 
for payments in respect of expenditures incurred prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of forty-three million Dollars (US$43,000,000) 
Page  19
-
17 -
may be made in respect of Eligible Expenditures incurred under 
Category (1) for payments made prior to this date but on or after 
January 8, 2007. 
(b) 
under Categories (1) and (3), unless the Association has confirmed in 
writing that: (A) the annual sub-national budget for basic services 
comprising the relevant Subprogram, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been delivered to the Association; (B) the relevant JBAR has been 
successfully completed; and (C) the quarterly financial reports, prepared 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and relating to the relevant Project semester, have been 
delivered to the Association;  
(c) 
under Category (2), unless the Association has confirmed in writing that: 
(A) the annual work plan for Subprogram B, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been delivered to the Association; and (B) the quarterly 
financial reports, prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and relating to the 
relevant Project semester, have been delivered to the Association. 
(d) 
under Category (4), unless the Association has confirmed in writing that: 
(A) the LIG Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, relating 
to Subprogram D has been delivered to the Association and that the 
Association has received evidence satisfactory to the Association that the 
LIG Operational Manual has been duly adopted by the Recipient; and 
(B) the quarterly financial reports, prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, for the LIG 
sub-component and relating to the relevant Project semester, have been 
delivered to the Association. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009.   
Page  20
-
18 -
APPENDIX 
I. Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Designated Pooled Account D” means the account to be maintained in the 
National Bank of Ethiopia in Dollars to finance activities relating to Subprogram 
D, into which the Pooled Funding D Partners funds shall be deposited. 
5. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s 
framework, prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, dated 
August 2007, prepared for purposes of the pilot LIG subcomponent of the 
Project, describing measures for the mitigation of the potential adverse 
environmental and social impact of the Project, as the same may be updated from 
time to time with the concurrence of the Association, and to be applied in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.F.2 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.   
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
7. 
“Guidelines for Malaria Vector Control” means the Recipient’s guidelines 
describing the strategies, activities, and measures to be taken for vector control, 
based on entonomological surveillance/surveys, published on March 2002, as the 
same may be updated from time to time with the concurrence of the Association. 
8. 
“Guidelines for Indoor Residual Insecticide Spraying” means the Recipient’s 
guidelines describing measures to be taken in storing and handling insecticide 
use for internal spraying, and related training guidelines for staff involved in IRS, 
revised in April 2007, as the same may be updated from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association. 
9. 
“LIG” means the Local Investment Grant scheme established under 
Subprogram D. 
Page  21
-
19 -
10. 
“LIG Operational Manual” means a manual relating to the pilot LIG sub-
component of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
setting forth details of the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required 
for the implementation of the pilot LIG sub-component, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association. 
11. 
“Local Investment Grant” means
 
a
multi-sector specific purpose grant made by 
the Federal Government within the framework of the Program, and having the 
purpose of increasing the quality and quantity of capital spending by Woreda 
Governments in the following sectors: health, education, agriculture, natural 
resources (including water) and rural roads.   
12. 
“MOU D” means a Memorandum of Understanding or other arrangements to be 
entered into between the Recipient, the Association and all the Pooled Funding D 
Partners, providing for common arrangements and procedures on procurement, 
disbursement, accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and 
exchange of information required for the implementation of Subprogram D. 
13. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement for the 
Protection of Basic Services Project (Grant No. H224-ET) between the Recipient 
and the Association, dated May 29, 2006.  
14. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
15. 
“Pooled Funding D Partners” means collectively, the Association and any other 
international development agencies or governments that are pooling at least a 
part of their funds for Part (1) (ii) of the Project into Designated Pooled 
Account D, and who will be a party to MOU D. 
16. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
17. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 14, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
18. 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the instrument prepared by the 
Recipient, dated August 2007, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for use throughout the implementation of the pilot LIG 
subcomponent of the Project, and publicly disclosed in impacted areas, and 
setting out the resettlement and compensation policy, organizational 
Page  22
-
20 -
arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet the needs of the people 
who may be affected by the Project.   
19. 
“Subprogram D” means an annual program of activities and associated budget 
for Part 1 (ii) of the Project to be financed from Designated Pooled Account D. 
II. 
Modification to the General Conditions 
 
The modification to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) is in 
respect of paragraph (a) of Section 2.05. 
Eligible Expenditures, 
which shall 
hereby be modified to read as follows: 
“(a) 
the payment is for the financing of the reasonable cost of: (i) with respect 
to Subprogram A, operating costs (including salaries of the officials of 
the Recipient’s civil service, equipment operation and maintenance costs, 
communication charges, transportation costs, field supervision travel 
allowances, office supplies, and fuel); (ii) with respect to Subprogram B, 
goods, training and workshops, consultants’ services including audits, 
and operating costs (including equipment operation and maintenance 
costs, communication charges, transportation costs, field supervision 
travel allowances, office supplies, and fuel); (iii) with respect to 
Subprogram C, goods, training and workshops, consultants’ services 
including audits, and operating costs (including equipment operation and 
maintenance costs, communication charges, transportation costs, field 
supervision travel allowances, office supplies, and fuel); and (iv) with 
respect to subprogram D, goods, works, or services, required for the 
Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing and procured, 
all in accordance with the provisions of the Legal Agreements;”
 
