Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:
36212 
Project Name 
Protection of Basic Services 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (50%); Other social services 
(50%); Social safety nets (P); Decentralization (P);Public expenditure, 
financial management and procurement (S);Other communicable 
diseases (S);Managing for development results (S) 
Project ID 
P074015 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
Implementing Agencies: 
Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development and Federal 
Ministry of Health 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Updated 
May 15, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 14, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
May 25, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Ethiopia is a country at a crossroads, both politically and economically.  Political tensions within the 
country have become stronger and more open in the months following the May 2005 elections.  
Heightened risks on the governance front have become apparent, with concerns that the political tensions 
have the potential to adversely impact economic governance and the larger development agenda.  
Ethiopia’s development partners have suspended direct budget support which had been providing 
significant levels of support for increasing pro-poor spending at local levels, and also served as a platform 
for broad-reaching dialogue around the key issues of growth, governance, vulnerability, service delivery, 
and the macroeconomic picture.  Partners based this decision on their perception of increased risks 
relating to governance, particularly the risk that unconstrained budget support could be vulnerable to 
political capture or diversion from the core priority of basic service delivery.  Furthermore, donor support 
for scaling-up appears unlikely without some clear improvements on the governance front.  The 
Government has challenged any assumptions that its development policies are subject to political 
considerations, and instead re-affirmed at the highest levels its continued commitment to poverty-
reduction and broad-based growth benefiting all Ethiopians. 
The World Bank had originally planned to prepare a new results-based Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS) for Ethiopia for FY06-FY08.  This CAS would have been developed in alignment with Ethiopia’s 
new Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), currently under 
preparation, and under the assumption of a scaling-up of Bank and donor financing to Ethiopia in line 
with the Gleneagles commitments.  In order to allow for a period where Government, stakeholders, 
partners, and the Bank can develop consensus around a strengthened governance agenda, the Bank has 
prepared an Interim CAS (ICAS) for FY06-07. 
The ICAS has been developed in consultation with the local Development Assistance Group (DAG), the 
private sector, civil society and government.  The ICAS’s overarching objective is to support 
implementation of a wide-ranging program of governance reform and consensus building efforts among 
citizens and policy makers to enable Ethiopia to accelerate its efforts to reduce the deep poverty that is 
evident throughout the country.  Consistent with this approach, the Bank fielded a governance mission in 
Page  2
January 2006 to guide the preparation of the ICAS. The mission recommended that the ICAS be designed 
to focus the Bank’s engagement more centrally on governance, including promoting fairness and 
transparency in basic service delivery.  The governance mission specifically endorsed the preparation of 
an operation to protect basic services through transfer of resources to sub-national levels in Ethiopia’s 
federated system of government (especially the woredas or districts), with improved monitoring and 
reporting on the use of resources.    
In the implementation of PASDEP, and the Bank’s ICAS, it will be important to guard against the risk 
that political tensions could negatively impact economic governance, or set back the overall development 
effort.  Indeed, good performance in implementing Ethiopia’s Sustainable Development and Poverty 
Reduction Program (SDPRP) over the last few years means that there is much to be lost if the country’s 
recent progress on human development and growth stalls, or is reversed, or is vulnerable to political 
capture.  Finally, there are clear opportunities that should not be lost to ‘boost’ progress on pro-poor and 
potentially high impact activities, such as the immunization of children or control of malaria and the 
deepening of transparency and accountability in the public arena. 
2. 
Objectives
.
The development objective of the Protection of Basic Services (PBS) operation is to protect the delivery 
of basic services by sub-national governments while promoting and deepening transparency and local 
accountability in service delivery.   
 
For the purposes of IDA’s PBS operation, basic services have been defined to cover the following key 
sectors and sub-sectors: primary and secondary education, health, and agriculture and natural resources 
(including water).   Expenditures on these sectors account for about 63% of total sub-national government 
spending.  It may be noted that other PBS financiers may employ  a somewhat broader definition of basic 
services in terms of sector coverage. 
 
Achievement of the PBS development objectives will be measured in terms of maintaining a significantly 
scaled-up level of basic service provision at sub-national levels during EFY98 (2005/06) as compared 
with previous years, and a further increase in basic service delivery in EFY99.  Improvements in the 
delivery of health services will be assessed in particular, given the infusion of complementary critical 
Federal support provided to local authorities for health commodities.  The PDO will also be assessed in 
terms more stringent fiduciary controls and reporting on sub-national spending 
and
 the introduction of 
new accountability mechanisms to better link citizen preferences with local government decisions. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement
.
The ICAS recognizes that in the absence of direct budget support, the Bank should not abandon its critical 
support for the delivery of basic services which enable poor people to break multi-generational poverty 
traps. Primary among these services are lower-level services in the education, health and water and 
agriculture sectors, which are fundamental for achieving the Millenium Development Goals. The Bank, 
together with other donor partners, must help Government provide these services in a fair, transparent, 
and accountable manner while preserving institutional capital for an eventual scaling-up when conditions 
are ripe. 
 
Given the extent to which Government expenditures are devoted to pro-poor sectors, and in view of the 
financing pressures discussed in the previous section, the likely adverse consequences for the poor of 
Ethiopia if Government expenditures are cut below budgeted levels in EFY98 are clear. Consequently the 
World Bank and other international development partners (DFID, CIDA) have embarked on the rapid 
Page  3
preparation of an operation that targets basic service delivery, which, in Ethiopia, is mostly the 
responsibility of sub-national governments. 
The proposed 
Protection of Basic Services (PBS)
 project would thus aim to provide funding for basic 
services at sub-national levels and will utilize public financial management systems and service delivery 
structures. In order to respond to governance concerns, the PBS operation will involve more timely and 
detailed reporting on the use of resources, explicit monitoring and oversight of the fairness of the 
transfers, monitoring of service delivery results at the Regional/sub-national levels rather than national 
levels, and the introduction of measures to reinforce and enhance local accountability to support 
Government’s commitment to distribute resources for basic service delivery equitably. 
 
The PBS will also support development of accountability mechanisms on both the government and 
citizens’ sides that are expected to be scaled-up during the period covered by the ICAS and beyond. As 
such, the ICAS sees this operation as a key catalyst for developing an integrated framework to focus all 
current and future Bank projects supporting decentralized service delivery on strengthening 
empowerment and decentralized decision making processes to ensure that resources are allocated 
according to the priorities of poor people. Key elements of this integrated framework would be: (a) 
discussion of JBAR progress; (b) strengthened understanding by, and engagement of, citizen 
representative groups (woreda and kebele councils, CSOs
1
)
and citizens in Woreda budgeting and 
expenditure processes; (c) in-kind health commodity contributions from Federal to local levels to boost 
the effectiveness of local health facilities; (d) a diverse monitoring and evaluation program that promotes 
broad-based citizen reviews of government performance and feedback into planning (integrating woreda 
benchmarking, citizen perception surveys, consultative citizen report cards); (e) a flexible, direct support 
mechanism (a multi-donor trust fund) for strengthening citizens’ engagement in policy and public 
budgeting; and (f) internal and external accountability mechanisms to mitigate the risk that resources 
could be captured by vested political interests at the local level. 
 
The proposed operation is in accordance with the consensus of the DAG (Ethiopia’s major development 
partners), which recognizes the need for Ethiopia to address political governance issues, while avoiding 
any deterioration or reversal in the hard-won, fragile gains in development outcomes. 
 
4. Description 
 
The PBS is predicated on Government’s commitment to good governance and service delivery as central 
elements of its poverty reduction strategy.  The Project Development Objective (PDO) reflects this, and all 
PBS components directly support the PDO.  Thus, components have been designed around a set of principles 
which attempt to capture this commitment – additionality, fiduciary responsibility, fairness, and 
accountability.  A series of reviews have been built into PBS implementation to continuously test the linkage 
between these principles and the implementation performance under the program. Since the PBS is about fair, 
accountable and effective service delivery, efforts must be sustained to ensure that services are indeed being 
provided to the poor in accordance with these principles.   The successful implementation of the PBS will 
depend on the continued commitment of all parties concerned – Government, beneficiary communities, and 
development partners – to the objectives supported by the Program 
 
The project will have four components: 
 
Component 1 on the Sub-National Basic Services, Sub-Program A, 
aims at preserving the originally 
budgeted level of delivery of basic services provided by regional and local governments, comprising: (a) 
resources to regions and local authorities based on agreed plans for delivery of basic services; and (b) 
1
CSOs or civil society organizations include entities such as youth, farmers’, women’s associations, and other 
formal and informal representative groups.  
Page  4
monitoring of (i) the level and timeliness of funding allocations for basic services to ensure additionality 
targets are met, (ii) the fair application of distributional rules, and (iii) actual spending levels on basic 
services and its distribution. The results of this monitoring will be used as conditions for disbursement. 
 
Component 2 on the Health MDG Performance Facility, Sub-Program B, 
will provide predictable 
financing for those critical inputs for primary health service delivery that cannot be efficiently financed at 
woreda level through the block-grant mechanism.  It will have a specific focus on controlling malaria, and 
will serve as the initial entry point
 in Ethiopia for the Bank’s Malaria Control Booster Program.   It will 
support three types of activities:  (i) 
Commodities, 
via the procurement on the international market of key 
inputs for accelerated implementation of the HSEP such as vaccines, contraceptives, long-lasting 
insecticide treated mosquito nets, malaria drugs, insecticides and spray pumps, and other commodities to 
be provided free of charge as part of the HSEP etc.;  (ii) 
Capacity building
 activities in several areas, 
including in monitoring and evaluation as well as operational research at MOH level;  (iii) 
Strengthening 
of procurement and logistics, 
especially in  international procurement, the Central Medical Store and the 
national distribution system.  
Component 3 on Financial Transparency and Accountability, Sub-Program C,
 will support 
government-implemented (i.e., supply side) activities at the Regional/City Administration, and Woreda 
and sub-Woreda levels to significantly enhance transparency around public budget procedures (budget 
preparation, expenditure and audits); and, foster broad engagement, strengthened “voice” and client 
power of citizen representative groups and citizens more broadly on public budget processes and public 
service delivery.  This component will also finance accountants  and Information Technolofy experts to 
be hired by MOFED to enhance its own capacity and to provide TA to the regions and Woredas.  It will 
also finance urgent capacity strengthening activities for the Office of the Federal Auditor General. 
Component 4 on Social Accountability
 will, through a World Bank administered Multi-donor Trust 
Fund mechanism executed by the World Bank, support capacity building for, and piloting of, selected 
large-scale pilot initiatives aimed at strengthening citizens’ voice and enhancing accountability of public 
sector service providers to citizens.  This component will also work to build demand-side pressure for 
accountability in the public budgeting process, while building capacity of citizens to engage in this 
process.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
    2030.75 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
      215.00 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
296.55 
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA) 
        15.75 
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION IRELAND (DCI) 
          1.00 
OTHER 
          3.86 
 
Total 
    2562.91 
 
6. Partnership 
Arrangements 
 
The Bank has a long history of close collaboration with donor and non-government partners in Ethiopia.  
Partnerships proposed with both civil society and donors in the implementation of the PBS are critical for 
its success.     
 
PBS builds on the harmonized donor approach adopted in Ethiopia.  Many of the partnerships and donor 
collaboration mechanisms developed under direct budget support will be continued under the PBS.  Joint 
Page  5
Budget and Aid Reviews initiated and supported by the PRSC/direct budget support series, will be 
adopted for the PBS. The Bank and different development partners have participated in the joint design 
and dialogue around the PBS. 
 
Development partners have indicated their commitment to co-finance or parallel finance the PBS. The 
Bank is financing Components 1, 2 and 3 only. The U.K. Government through DFID is a major co-
financier of the PBS, providing US$296.55 million equivalent over three years 
–
and covering all four 
components – and will be putting up its financing proposal for approval in parallel with the World Bank’s 
Board discussion to support all four components. The Canadian Government through CIDA has also 
indicated its intention to co-finance the PBS (providing US$15.75 million equivalent), particularly for 
Component 2 on health, by the end of this Ethiopian Fiscal Year. The Irish Government through DCI is 
re-directing available funding for the health sector to PBS Component 2 in the spirit of reducing 
fragmentation of donor funds and procedures for the sector. Other agencies (e.g. the European 
Commission, Swedish SIDA, KfW) have been involved in the technical design of the PBS. Moreover, the 
African Development Bank, the Dutch Government, the European Commission, the Swedish Government 
have indicated their intention to submit financing proposals for the PBS program as of next fiscal year, 
through a combination of parallel and co-financing approaches.  
 
The PBS will be supported by donors via three Multi-Donor Trust Funds (MDTFs) to be managed by the 
Bank: one to support Component 2 on health specifically; one to support Components 1 and 3; and one to 
support Component 4. The trust fund for Component 4 will be administered by the Bank using a non-
government management entity.  
 
Civil Society Partnerships.
 Partnership arrangements for the implementation of Component 4 on social 
accountability are under development. Effective partnerships with citizen groups will be essential for the 
success of activities envisaged under this component and for PBS efforts to catalyze greater local level 
accountability in service delivery and resources provided via the inter-governmental fiscal transfer system 
as a whole. Consultations with CSOs have been undertaken during PBS preparation and their inputs have 
informed the design of the operation, especially Component 4. The consultations have also indicated 
broad-based support for the PBS program. 
 
Donor Coordination Framework.
 PBS provides a framework within which development partners have the 
flexibility to tailor the way they support basic service delivery and help enhance accountability in line 
with their agencies’ requirements. While operating within a broadly common framework and set of 
principles, each PBS partner’s PBS operation is likely to have some differences in design. Partners need 
not support all four components, but will at a minimum need to finance either Component 1, 2 or 3 in 
order to be considered a PBS financier.  Donors agree, however, to share core common systems. All will 
be bound by the harmonized quarterly review program, which includes the Joint Budget and Aid Reviews 
(JBARs). Service delivery results will be monitored by drawing on the work of the sector technical 
working groups and the M&E framework agreed to under PASDEP.  
 
Joint supervision and implementation support of the proposed project will be conducted by PBS financing 
partners. The program will require intensive supervision given its innovative approach and its multi-sector 
nature, and to provide guidance on any revisions to institutional arrangements, including capacity 
building requirements, that may be required to strengthen overall implementation performance and 
achievement of development objectives.  
 
7. 
Implementation.   
 
The PBS will be implemented over a period of two years, using existing Government structures.  The 
institutional and implementation arrangements will be as follows: 
Page  6
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development. 
At the federal level, the Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Development (MOFED) in general, and its Macroeconomic Policy and Management 
Department in particular, will be responsible for the PBS as a whole, and as executing agency for 
Components 1 and 3. MOFED will have overall responsibility for the oversight, coordination, and 
monitoring and evaluation of project activities across these two components. It would liaise with relevant 
sector line ministries and development partners for technical assistance as may be required. MOFED’s 
primary responsibilities would include: (a) enforcement of agreed fiscal transfer formulas through the 
timely transfers of block grants for basic services to regional governments including financing for the 
basic services sub-program, ensuring effective financial management and compliance with fiduciary 
requirements; (b) management of the implementation of various technical assistance and systems 
development activities to ensure transparent budget execution, enhanced fiscal reporting, improved 
monitoring of key results for the delivery of basic services; and (iii) support improvements in financial 
transparency and social accountability for public expenditures  and basic services delivery at regional, 
local government, and service facility levels. The Macroeconomic Department and Regional Planning 
Department would be responsible for day-to-day coordination of project activities, liaising with other 
departments as needed. 
 
At the regional level, Bureaus of Finance and Economic Development (BOFED) are responsible for 
coordinating project implementation. BOFEDs will have the responsibility for providing financing to 
local governments (woredas and urban administrations) for the ex-ante plans for basic service delivery. At 
local level, the Woreda Finance and Economic Development Offices (WOFED) and Urban 
Administration Offices of Finance
 
would be responsible for managing and coordinating the day-to-day 
implementation of activities executed. 
 
There is a shortage of financial management skills in the implementing entities. As soon as 
implementation begins, MOFED will hire additional accountants to enhance its own capacity and to 
provide TA to the regions and Woredas. 
 
Ministry of Capacity Building. 
Government and donor efforts in the area of public sector reform will be 
essential to the success of the PBS instrument. As a result, the Federal Ministry of Capacity Building 
(MCB), and its regional Bureaus, will continue to play a key role as they have primary responsibility for 
Ethiopia’s ongoing public sector reform efforts. The Office of DLDP of the MCB at federal level and its 
line bureaus at regional and local levels
 
will closely collaborate with MOFED in the overall coordination 
and implementation of Component 3 and certain dimensions of Component 4 (both of which are essential 
to the success of Component 1). This will help to focus on the capacity-building dimensions of planned 
interventions, ensuring proper alignment with national capacity-building efforts and building on the 
experience of related ongoing programs and interventions. 
 
Ministry of Health. 
The Health “MDG Performance Facility” sub-program would be managed by the 
Federal Ministry of Health (MOH) at the level of the Department of Planning.
 
MOH has developed an 
institutional framework for monitoring and follow-up of the implementation of the Health Sector 
Development Program (HSDP) by establishing a Central Joint Steering Committee (CJSC) and Regional 
Joint Steering Committees (RJSC) established at federal and regional levels, respectively. These 
committees, which serve to advise, monitor and follow-up on the implementation of HSDP, will also 
oversee the implementation of the Health MDG Facility. 
 
Office of the Federal Auditor General. 
Consistent with its constitutional and legal mandate, the Office 
of the Federal Auditor General (OFAG) will audit the use of all funds provided via the PBS project 
through the GOE’s public financial systems. OFAG will also undertake an enhanced continuous audit of 
regions’ use of funds and the timeliness and accuracy of reporting. These reports will be conducted in 
Page  7
accordance with Government of Ethiopia audit standards, INTOSAI Auditing Standards and relevant 
World Bank guidelines.  
 
Other Key Line Ministries and Agencies. 
Key line ministries and their respective regional sector 
bureaus and woreda sector offices will provide guidance and/or technical assistance as may be required in 
the overall development of work plans and budgets in these tiers. These include, inter alia, the Ministries 
of Education, Agriculture and Rural Development and its Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau 
(FSCB), Federal Affairs, Water Resources, the Federal Food Security Coordination Bureau (FSCB), and 
the Central Statistical Authority (CSA). Regional sector bureaus and woreda sector offices would be 
responsible for the public dissemination of service facility related information. 
 
Councils. 
Councils at regional, woreda and kebele levels
 
will be responsible for reviewing and approving 
work plans and budgets at their respective levels, facilitating information sharing, and harnessing greater 
involvement of citizens in the planning and management of delivering basic services and in initiatives to 
enhance transparency. 
 
Implementing Agency for Component 4.  
Component 4 will be supported via a World Bank managed 
Trust Fund.  In order to ensure independence and efficient implementation, the overall management and 
coordination of activities under Component 4 will be handled by a qualified Management Agency (MA), 
to be recruited on a competitive basis, following World Bank procurement procedures.  The MA will be 
outside of the government structure, with the technical expertise and experience in implementing and/or 
managing accountability initiatives in basic services. The MA will be responsible for overall component 
implementation, providing and/or organizing technical assistance and capacity-building, networking, and 
facilitating support as needed. It will coordinate and support the piloting of social accountability 
approaches by appropriate organizations (CSOs, NGOs, research, think tanks etc.), while promoting a 
learning process throughout, and monitor and report on results. The MA will have responsibility for 
procurement and financial management. The MA will be guided on policy and strategic direction by a 
Steering Committee (SC) which will be comprised of representatives, in equal proportions, from 
government (MOFED, selected BOFEDs, MCB), civil society organizations, and development partners. 
 
7. 
Sustainability 
 
A
key concern, given the levels of recurrent spending that would be supported by the operation, is 
whether the services will be sustainable following the close of the project. This concern is mitigated by 
two factors: first, the commitment of the Government to maintain and, indeed, increase basic services as 
evidenced in public spending trends, and second, that service delivery will take place in accordance with 
sector development frameworks where Government and development partners have a strong tradition of 
being engaged.  
In the event of an improving political climate, it would be expected that donor assistance flows would 
rebound relatively rapidly to allow for sustainable financing of the supported areas and to allow the 
achievement of the previously envisioned scaling-up of development efforts. In the case of a continued 
status quo, or a deterioration of political conditions, where ODA would not be expected to rebound to 
levels required to support service delivery at targeted levels, the Bank and partners would seek to develop 
interventions that could help the Government adjust to the reduced resource envelope, while still 
supporting core services at the maximum possible level. 
Once implementation has progressed, it is proposed to review the performance of the PBS in supporting 
improvements in sub-national service delivery and local accountability, and to take a decision jointly with 
Government and development partners on whether to continue the PBS as is, or modify certain PBS 
modalities, or return to direct budget support while retaining certain elements of PBS found to be 
Page  8
effective. Should the PBS approach prove successful in supporting fair and transparent service delivery at 
the sub-national levels, the Bank may prepare a follow-on operation to continue support using similar 
mechanisms.  
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Lessons drawn from experience in previous international responses to environments where a deterioration in 
governance posed risks to poverty reduction, suggest that it is important for development partners to sta 
engaged in supporting basic development objectives.  The preparation of the PBS project has been informed 
buy international and Ethiopian experience. 
·
Experience highlights the necessity to avoid exacerbating the situation for the poor by maintaining the 
provision of basic social services during periods of deteriorating governance, and the importance of being 
opportunistic about acceleration of delivery of pro-poor services where possible.  
 
·
A
focused engagement on service delivery during a period of social stress can constitute an 
opportunity to promote measures which lead to greater transparency and accountability in public service 
delivery.  This can, in turn, contribute to the longer-term goal of democratization via the empowerment of 
local governments and their citizens.  
 
·
Project design has been informed by lessons from the implementation of direct budget support by 
IDA and others in Ethiopia. A key lesson has been the difficulty in developing an adequate mechanism to 
support reforms at sub-national levels. While direct budget support provided a useful forum to engage in 
national level policy dialogue, and even sub-national levels in areas where the mandate was at the Federal 
level but delivery was at regional/local levels, for those service areas (e.g. primary education, primary 
health) where budget decisions and choices are the constitutional mandates of sub-national tiers of 
government, the structures for engagement between development partners and regional/local governments 
need to be strengthened. In particular there is a need for greater information flows between the sector 
bureaus, finance/planning bureaus, and development partners on core service delivery constraints. 
·
Several instruments for dialogue and donor coordination have emerged in the context of the direct 
budget support framework in Ethiopia, such as the now-institutionalized Joint Budget and Aid Reviews 
(JBAR), the alignment of the calendars for budget support with the Ethiopian financial year and sector 
review cycles, agreement to draw the conditionality and performance assessment frameworks from the 
Government’s PRSP, etc. An additional lesson is with regard to the importance of maintaining strong 
consistency (e.g. in indicators, agreed actions) across different instruments and programs. 
·
Experiences of some donors who have had a long tradition of providing support to, and working 
with, selected Regions suggest that the approach of more direct engagement with Regional governments 
can lead to productive partnerships in development of innovations in service delivery. These experiences 
also show, however, that policies at the Federal level have an important bearing on what transpires 
at local levels and hence sub-national engagement is not a substitute for policy dialogue at Federal level 
or in national fora. 
·
Taking account of the preceding two points, it is clear that achieving a better balance in ways to 
support dialogue with sub-national and national tiers, as well as with civil society groups, as compared to 
what has been achieved under direct budget support, is a key challenge for the PBS instrument. 
 
·
The decade of Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs) together with the CFAA and CPARs 
undertaken by the Bank, DFID, EC and other partners in Ethiopia, show the importance of strengthening 
and working with Government’s own public financial management and treasury systems for the financing 
Page  9
of services. The level of under-spending of capital budgets financed from project aid versus treasury 
sources was found to be very high, especially in health, due to the multiplicity of parallel donor project 
requirements which constitute a heavy demand on local government implementation capacity. These 
studies indicated that the more sustainable way to improve services in Ethiopia was by working to 
strengthen Government systems over the medium-term rather than by creating parallel project 
implementation structures. They also highlighted the importance of harmonization of donor instruments 
to facilitate efficient utilization of constrained implementation capacity at all levels. 
 
·
Important lessons were drawn from the experience to date of implementation of sector-wide 
approaches in education and health sectors in Ethiopia. These experiences reinforced the importance 
noted above of strengthening Government’s own systems for implementation and management rather than 
encourage establishment of parallel structures. Moreover, following implementation of the Government’s 
policy to devolve service delivery responsibility first to Regional and now woredas and the accompanying 
fiscal decentralization, single-sector vertical SWAps cannot serve as the means to support these front-line 
services.  Rather development of multi-sector (even all sector) SWAps to respect local level autonomy in 
decision making would appear to be the best means to reinforce the decentralized service delivery model. 
 
8. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Medical waste management.  
Regarding vaccines, there is an issue of safe disposal of needles that will 
prevent reuse and resulting transmittal of HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases.  Medical waste can be 
a
major source of health hazard unless appropriate measures are taken to ensure proper handling and 
management. Conscious of the consequences of improper handling and management of medical wastes, 
the Ministry of Health of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia has drawn up a guideline in 
September 1997 to prevent health hazards that may arise from inept handling and management of medical 
wastes. The guideline elaborates the major types of wastes such as medical, pathological, chemical, 
infectious or biological, and pharmaceutical wastes and measures to be taken by health facilities. In 
addition serious attention is given to prepare a guideline for “safe injections”.  In general, the available 
guideline provides sufficient safeguards for handling and management of medical wastes and its full 
implementation will be frequently assessed.  The original Amharic version of the Government’s 
Guidelines on the Handling and Disposal of Waste in Health Facilities has been distributed by 
Government widely to health institutions providing such services, while a recently prepared (February 
2006) English translation has been disclosed in the World Bank’s InfoShop. 
 
9. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Jill Armstrong 
Title: Country Program Coordinator 
Tel: (202) 473-8471 
Fax:  (202) 473-5453 
Email: Jarmstrong@worldbank.org 
 
10. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500
Page  10
