Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/04/2006 
Report No.:  AC2108
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Ethiopia 
Project ID:  P074015 
Project Name:  Protection of Basic Services 
Task Team Leader:  Trina S. Haque 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 14, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 25, 2006 
Managing Unit:  AFTH3 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Sub-national government administration (50%);Other social services (50%) 
Theme:  Social safety nets (P);Decentralization (P);Public expenditure, financial 
management and procurement (S);Other communicable diseases (S);Managing for 
development results (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
215.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
2,030.75 
 
CANADA: CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY 
(CIDA) 15.75 
 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
(DFID)296.00 
 
IRELAND, GOV. OF 
1.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
4.41
2,347.91 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective of the PBS operation is to protect the delivery of basic 
services by sub-national governments while promoting and deepening transparency and 
accountability in service delivery.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project has four components which include the following:  
 
Component 1 on the Basic Services Grant to maintain the delivery of basic services 
provided by regional and local governments, comprising: (a) funding of the block grant to 
regional governments who in turn deliver basic services or make transfers to local 
Page  2
governments to support the delivery of basic services; (b) monitoring (i) the level and 
timeliness of funding for basic services to ensure additionality targets are met, (ii) the fair 
application of distributional rules, (iii) actual spending levels on basic services and its 
distribution.  
 
Component 2 on the Health MDG Performance Pooled Fund will those critical inputs 
for primary health service delivery that cannot be efficiently financed at woreda level 
through the block-grant supported under Component 1.  It will have a specific focus on 
controlling malaria, and will serve as the initial entry point in Ethiopia for the Bank’s 
Malaria Control Booster Program.   It will support four types of activities:  (i) 
procurement and distribution of critical health Commodities; (ii) Capacity building; (iii) 
Strengthening of procurement and logistic: and (iv) Emergency health needs.  
 
Component 3 on Government Systems on Financial Transparency and Accountability 
will support activities at the Regional, Woreda and sub-Woreda levels to significantly 
enhance transparency around public budget procedures (budget preparation, expenditure 
and audits); and, foster broad engagement, strengthened “voice” andclient power of 
citizen representative groups and citizens more broadly on public budget processes and 
public service delivery.  This component will also finance accountants to be hired by 
MOFED to enhance its own capacity and to provide TA to the regions and Woredas.  It 
will also finance urgent capacity strengthening activities for the Office of the Federal 
Auditor General.  
 
Component 4 on Social Accountability which, through a flexible Multi-Donor Trust 
Fund mechanism executed by the World Bank, will support capacity building for, and 
piloting of, selected approaches to strengthen voice of citizens and civil society groups in 
the context of decentralized service delivery, and also build capacity of citizens to engage 
in public budgeting processes.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented throughout the country by basic health facilities such as 
health centers and health posts. These health facilities generate medical wastes which 
may endanger human health unless the wastes are properly handled and managed. Since 
1997 the Ministry of Health has developed a national guideline on handling wastes by 
health facilities.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Gebreselassie Okubagzhi (AFTH3) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project implementation will involve medical waste and use of insecticides which are 
likely to raise safeguard issues. The physical design of health centers and health posts 
have provisions for proper disposal of liquid and solid wastes in addition to small 
incinerators for burning contaminated materials used by health centers. Insecticides are 
used indoors and the potential for contaminating the outside environment is limited in 
scope. No significant negative impact will be anticipated as long as agreed safeguard 
measures are fully implemented.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No long-term impacts are anticipated as long as the safeguard policies are implemented.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Regular supervision to ensure adherence to the safeguards guidelines will help minimize 
the possible adverse impacts.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Government has developed Waste Handling and Disposal Guideline which is being 
used by health facilities since 1997.  In addition, all health facility construction designs 
include provisions for proper handling of liquid and solid wastes generated by health 
units and small burning facilities are installed for taking care of contaminated and 
hazardous materials. In addition, health facilities are provided with autoclaves to sterilize 
medical instruments and other materials.  Furthermore, the Government is finalizing 
“Injection Safety Guideline” to reduce infections through contaminated needles.  The 
Government has agreed to install a regular monitoring system to ensure the 
implementation of the safeguards and regular checking of facilities to ascertain that 
health facility generated wastes do not contaminate the environment. An environmental 
Page  4
sanitation expert (sanitarian) located in health centers will take the responsibility for 
supervising the implementation of the safeguards policy by health facilities.  
 
The Government will allocate sufficient funds to a) ensure the availability of appropriate 
medical equipment and that health facilities are properly equipped to avoid potential 
health hazards emanating from poorly designed health infrastructure; b) monitor the 
availability and functionality of basic health facilities to ensure proper disposal and 
treatment of medical waste; and c) conduct regular supervision and ensure timely 
maintenance of facilities and instruments.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Private and public health institutions are the major stakeholders. The preparation of the 
1997 guideline has reportedly involved a number of stakeholders. Workshop and briefing 
forums are used for consultation and disclosure.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
02/09/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/30/1998 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
02/16/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The Amharic version of the guidelines has been in use in Ethiopia since 1997   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
Yes 
Page  5
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Trina S. Haque 
02/20/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Gebreselassie Okubagzhi 
02/20/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Laura Frigenti 
05/04/2006 
Comments:   
