                                         Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                      ReportNo: 40422 - ET




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                             ON A

                             PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                     INTHEAMOUNTOF
                   SDR 137.05 MILLION (US$215 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                  FEDERALDEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA

                                           FORTHE

                         PROTECTIONOF BASIC SERVICES PROJECT



                                       November 30,2007




HumanDevelopmentI11
CountryDepartmentEast3
Africa Region

This documenthas arestricted distribution andmaybeusedbyrecipients only inthe perfonnance
oftheir official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective October 31,2007

                       Currency Unit = EthiopianBirr (ETB)
                               ETB9.09 =US$ 1.00
                             US$1.56936= SDR 1.00

                                  FISCALYEAR
                                   July 8 -July 7

                               EFYOO=IDAFY 08
                               EFYO1=IDAFY09

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
BOFED    Bureauo f Finance and Economic Development
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CSRP     Civil Service Reform Program
DFID     Department for InternationalDevelopment, UK Government
DP       Development Partner
DLDP     District Level Decentralization Program
EBS      Enhanced Basic Services Program
EFY      EthiopianFiscal Year
EMCP     ExpenditureManagement and Control Program
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FMR      Financial Management Report
FTAPS    FinancialTransparency and Perception Survey
GAVI     Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunizations
H C      Health Center
HSDP     Health Sector DevelopmentProgram
ICAS     InterimCountry Assistance Strategy
IFR      Interim(Unaudited) Financial Report
ITN      Insecticide-Treated Nets
JBAR     Joint Budget and Aid Review
KfW      German Development Bank
LIG      Local Investment Grant
MA       Management Agent
M C B    Ministryo fCapacity Building
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MDTF     Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MOFED    Ministryo fFinance andEconomicDevelopment
MOH      Ministryo fHealth
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NBE      National Bank o f Ethiopia
OFAG     Official o f the Federal Auditor General
PASDEP   Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to EndPoverty
PBS      Protection o f Basic Services Project
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEFA     Public Expenditureand Financial Accountability
PSCAP    Public Sector Capacity BuildingProgram

                                                                            FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



          RPF              Resettlement Policy Framework
          SDPRP            Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
          SNNPR            Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region
          SPG              Specific Purpose Grant
          UNFPA            UnitedNations PopulationFund
          UNICEF           UnitedNations Children's Fund
          WOFED            Woreda Office o f Finance and Economic Development




                                       Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                                     Country Director:     Kenichi Ohashi
                                       Sector Director:     Yaw Ansu
                                      Sector Manager:       Laura Frigenti
                                    Task Team Leader:       Trina Haque




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                   FEDERAL,DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE
                            PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES

                                              CONTENTS


I.          Introduction..............................................................................    1
I1                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                          8
            Proposed Changes.......................................................................
            Rational for Additional Financing....................................................
            Background for Additional Financing................................................
I11
Iv                                                                                                        10
V.          Project Costs and Financing...........................................................        13
VI.         Project Implementation, Financial Management, and Procurement
            Arrangements. ..........................................................................      13
VI1         Consistency with CAS.................................................................         16
VI11.
Ix.         Economic Analysis o f Financing Gap...............................................            16

X.          Environmental Assessment...........................................................
            Appraisal o f Restructured and Scaled-up Project Activities......................             18
                                                                                                          18
XI.         Expected Outcomes...................................................................          19
XI1.        Benefits and Risks.....................................................................       19

XIV.
XI11.       Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing.................
            Credit Conditions and Covenants...................................................            25
                                                                                                          25


SCHEDULES

Schedule A :      Estimated Project Cost and Source o f Financing           ............................  27
Schedule B:      FinancingPlan and Disbursement Schedule ................................                 28
                  Allocation and Disbursements o f Additional Financing................... 29
Schedule C:       Procurement Arrangements....................................................            30
Schedule D:      Timetable o f Key Project Processing Events and Project Team...........                  38
Schedule E:      Performance Indicators.........................................................          39
Schedule F:       Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements................. 45
Schedule G:       Environmental and Social Safeguards Management Arrangements......                       58
Schedule H:      Grant .............................................................................
                 Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the Pilot Local Investment
                                                                                                          61
Schedule I :      Economic and Fiscal Analysis for the Pilot Local InvestmentGrant .... 63
Schedule J:      Millennium Development Goals.............................................
                 Additional Financing for Component 2: Promotingthe Health
                                                                                                          68
MAP: IBRDNo.Country
Schedule K:                at a Glance.............................................................       69
                  33405


                                   PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET




Responsible agency: Federal Ministry o f Finance and Economic Development, Federal Ministry
o f Health




Revised project development objectives/outcomes [If applicable]

The original development objectives o fthe projecthave not beenrevised.

Does the scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies? If so, indicate
which one(s)

For the Pilot LIG Subcomponent, the Safeguard Policies for Environmental Assessment OPBP
4.01 and Involuntary Resettlement OPBP 4.12 are triggered inthe context o f the support for the
construction o f small-scale civil works implementedthrough the multi-sector Specific Purpose
Grant (SPG) from the Federal Government. The Environmental and Social Management
Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework have been completed and disclosed incountry.

For Component 2, SafeguardPolicy for Pest Management OP4.09 i s triggered inthe context o f
the indoor use o f insecticides. The Guideline for Malaria Vector Control and the Guidelines for
Indoor Residual Insecticide Spraying have been prepared and are inuse. These guidelines have
been disclosed.

                                     For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit    [ XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$215.00 million
        Proposed terms: IDA Grant Financing

                     Source                   Local      Foreirn    1  Total
 Borrower                                                               1,159.23
 IBRD/IDA                                                    32.00       215.00
 African Development Bank                                                  55.00
 Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency                    20.86         20.86
 Department o f InternationalDevelopment, UK     126.99      10.00        136.99
 Government (DFID)
 European Commission                             189.00        7.04       196.04
 KfWGermanDevelopmentBank                         14.00                    14.00
 The Netherlands Government                                    7.00         7.00
ITotal                                         1,727.22I     76.90  I   1,804.12I

I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks approval of the Executive Directors to provide additional
financing in the amount o f SDR 137.05 million (US$215 million equivalent) to the Federal
Democratic Republic o f Ethiopia for the Protection o f Basic Services Project (the Project or
PBS), presently financed under the first IDA Grant No. H224-ET. This i s the first additional
financing proposal for this Project and for which a second IDA Grant i s proposed.

2.      The proposed additional financing would largely provide for the financing gap
associated with the completion o f Component 1 - Promoting the Delivery o f Basic Services by
Sub-national governments, and Component 2 - Promoting the Health Millennium Development
Goals, supported through the Project. In addition, additional financing i s also sought for
restructuring to scale up project impact through the implementation o f a new and
complementary activity related to the delivery o f basic services, termed the Pilot Local
Investment Grant (LIG). The Project's development objectives would remainunchanged.

3.      Funding to initiate the LIG window would expand the mechanisms available to better
achieve the project development objective. While the existing Component 1 reimburses
Government for recurrent costs related to basic service delivery by regional and local (woreda)
governments, the LIG would finance a pilot effort to increase both the quality and quantity o f
capital investment by local governments and thereby scale up the Project's impact and
development effectiveness in the delivery o f basic services. The Basic Services and Pilot LIG
Subcomponents would thus complement each other.

4.      The proposed additional financing would largely finance: (i)Regional and local
government     delivery o f basic services     in education,    agriculture,  health, and water
supplyhanitation; (ii)capital investments at local government level to improve the quality and
quantity o f basic services delivery; (iii)
                                         high-impact health commodities and strengthening o f the
health system; and (iv) various institutional capacity building activities, consulting services and
training to further advance concepts and issues o f transparency and accountability at local
administration levels while also strengthening monitoring mechanisms.

5.      The PBS enjoys support from several other development partners, including the African
Development Bank, CIDA, DFID, EC, the Irish Government, KfW, and the Netherlands
Government. To date, approximately US$580 million in donor commitments have been secured
from these partners for the PBS, either through co-financing o f the IDA project or direct
financing.

11.     Backgroundfor AdditionalFinancing

6.      Context. The IDA-financed Protectiono f Basic Services Project (PBS) was approved on
May 25, 2006 and became effective on June 2, 2006. The closing date i s currently June 30, 2008.
The total amount o f the IDA Grant i s SDR 149.60 million (US$236 million equivalent with
exchange rate gains) o f which SDR139.8 million or about 94% has been disbursed. The PBS i s an
instrument that the Government and eight development partners including the Bank have
developed following the concerns on governance in the aftermath o f the May 2005 elections,
which led to the suspension o f direct budget support. The development objective o f the PBS i s to
protect and promote the delivery o f basic services by sub-national governments while deepening
transparency and local accountability inservice delivery.




                                                 1

7.       Recent Macroeconomic Developments. The macroeconomic context i s showing
stronger prospects today than at the time when the PBS was initiated. Given the size o f aid flows
associated with the PBS across all partners, the strength o f the macro economy remains o f key
interest. PBS partners, including the World Bank, have supported the need for a strong
macroeconomic dialogue with Government and with the participation o f the IMF. Following the
recent agreement between the Government and the International Monetary Fund for the Fund to
undertake two macro surveillance missions per year, the first two reviews have been conducted in
March and November 2007 respectively. According to the reviews, real GDP grew by 11.6% in
FY06, with a projected growth o f 11.4%for FY07. The macroeconomic outlook seems favorable,
with strong macroeconomic policy implementation, yet there are risks as the country remains
vulnerable to external shocks. The rate o f inflation has picked up inthe last year, and i s averaging
close to 17.8% per year (as o f end o f M a y 2007). This i s due mainly to fuel price increases and
aggregate demand pressure.

8.       As per Government authorities, macroeconomic stability remains a high priority.
Accordingly, the National Bank o f Ethiopia (NBE) introduced changes to monetary policy
effective July 4,2007. The NBEincreased commercialbanks' reserve requirement from 5 percent
to 10 percent, as well as the minimum deposit rate (applied for savings deposit) from 3 to 4
percent per annum. Government sources also disclosed that they are undertaking a study on the
causes-o f inflation so as to effectively avoid macroeconomic instability. The recent measures
taken by the NBE i s expected to contribute to curbing inflation as well as lowering the excess
reserve in the financial system and contributing to the stability o f the foreign exchange market.
Furthermore, the Government i s enhancing its domestic revenue mobilization efforts, and this i s
expected to further lower the need for deficit financing.

9.       Project Components. The Project currently supports four components:

10.      Component 1 on Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national
governments, supports the delivery o f basic services provided by Regional and local governments       '


through the: (a) financing o f sub-national delivery o f basic services; and (b) monitoring o f (i)the
level and timeliness o f fundingallocations for the Government's inter-governmental block grants
to ensure additionality targets are met, (ii)  the fair application o f distributional rules; and (iii)
actual spending levels on basic services and its distribution.

11.      Component 2 on Promoting the Health Millennium Development Goals provides
predictable financing for those critical inputs for primary health service delivery that cannot be
efficiently funded at woreda level through the block-grant supported under Component 1. It
supports three types o f activities: (i)
                                       procurement and distribution o f critical health commodities;
(ii)capacity building; and (iii) strengthening o fprocurement and logistics.

12.      Component 3 on Strengthening Governance Systems on Financial Transparency and
Accountability supports activities at the RegiodCity Administrations, woredas and kebele levels
that significantly enhance transparency around public budget procedures (budget preparation,
expenditure and audits). It also aims to foster broad engagement o f citizen representative groups
and citizens more broadly on public budget processes and service delivery by institutionalizing
various budget literacy tools. It aims to establish the foundation for strengthening participatory
budgetingwithin the Government's decentralized governance structures.

13.     Component 4 on Social Accountability supports capacity building for, and piloting of,
selected approaches to strengthen voice and client power o f citizens and civil society
organizations in the context o f decentralized service delivery and to build the capacity o f citizens



                                                  2

to engage in public budgeting processes. This component aims specifically at building demand-
side governance capacity on public budget issues among citizens and civil society organizations.
It is financed by a Multi-Donor Trust Fund administered by the World Bank and i s implemented
usinga non-government Management Agent.

14.       Status of Project Implementation. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) o f the Project was
completed in May 2007. Outcomes o f the MTR confirm that both the Project's achievement o f
development objectives and overall implementation progress are satisfactory. A further Review
was completed inmid-November 2007, confirming continued positive performance. Highlightso f
implementationprogress are presentedbelow by component, the overall results achieved, and the
partnership framework underpinning the PBS. There have been no changes to the original
objectives o f the Project.

15.       Component 1: Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national government.
The four principles or "tests"              o f additionality, fiduciary responsibility, fairness, and
accountability have been fully or substantially met consistently, as verified via five reviews
conductedjointly by the Project's development partners since effectiveness inJune 2006.

16.      Additionality. Fromthe base year FY05 untilFY07 the Government has increasedits own
source fundingto sub-national governments -which provide the bulk o fbasic services -by about
21% per year on average, in dollar terms, and i s budgeted to increase another 35% between FY07
and FY08. Total funding for the sub-national government levels i s expected to reach about
U S 1 . 5 billion in FY08, with about 70% of this from Government's own resources and the
remainder from PBS partners. This i s a very large increase compared to the base year (FY05)
value o f US$635.5 million for total funding from all sources to these levels. As a result, total
sub-national government spending on basic services in education, health, agriculture and
waterhanitation i s expected to double from a base year value o f US$505 million in FY05 to
US$1,023 million inFY08 (see sector breakdown inFigure 1below).

  Figure 1.RegionalRecurrent and CapitalExpendituresfromTreasury SourcesonBasic
                                        Services (EFY1997 2000) -




                        Education              Agriculture              Health            NaturaI Resources
                                                                                              (incl. Water)

  El EFY97 Pre-Actual           0 EFY98 Pre-Actual        lEFY99Pre-Actual             64 EFY 2000 Budget
Note: Based on current data inEFY 2000 budget, which includes alarge unallocatedamount relatedto salary
adjustments. It is expectedthat muchof this amountwill bereallocatedto basic service sectors so recurrent spending
on basic servicesin EFY 2000 may exceedthe amounts indicatedabove.



                                                       3

17.     Fairness. Rigorous analysis o f public spending data has confirmed that the Federal
Government and Regional Governments have shown no systematic bias against woredas that
voted for the opposition in2005, Moreover, the House o f Federation has approved a new formula
for distributingFederal grants to the Regional states which addresses disparities and the perceived
bias in per capita allocations under the previous formula. The application o f the new formula
started with EFY2000, and has resulted ina narrowing o f the Regional per capita gap already: For
example, the gap between the minimumand maximum per capita allocations fell from 640 Birr
(Amhara: 112 Birr, Gambella: 752 Birr) in EFY99 to 506 Birr (Oromiya: 164, Gambella: 670
Birr)inEFYOO.

18.     Fiduciary. The 2006 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
assessment, conducted as part o f the PBS agreement, has been completed at the Federal level and
in seven Regions including Afar, Benishangul-Gumuz, Dire Dawa, Gambella, Harari, Oromiya,
and Tigray. The findings show particularly good performance on the credibility o f the budget,
comprehensiveness and transparency. The report also identified areas o f improvement and the
Government committed to incorporate appropriate actions in its Expenditure Management and
Control Program (EMCP). The 31d and 4th quarterly reports from the PBS Continuous Audit at
Regional and woreda levels have been completed, bringing the total number o f sub-national
entities audited to 227 since the inception o f the PBS. The results continued to show strong
internal control systems especially on the payroll side, with continuing weaknesses in fixed assets
and stores management.

19.     Independently, the National Audit Office o f the United Kingdom visited the country
recently and made a positive assessment o f the current PFM practice in general and in the
implementation o f the PBS in particular. Major observations o f the mission include: the effective
functioning o f the decentralized system in basic service delivery through setting priority,
allocating more resources for basic services, giving more attention to M & E, budget disclosure,
and inengaging communities at sub-national levels.

20.     Accountability. Local transparency and accountability initiatives remain at early stages
but are gaining momentum. A major effort under the PBS is the widespread publication and
posting of regional and woreda budgets, the first initiative o f its kind in Ethiopia and which has
served to catalyze transparency and accountability at local administration levels. MOFED's fiscal
data continues to be made available via its website (www.mofaed.org) for independent review.
Steps are also underway to introduce tools, e.g. laypersons' budgets, service delivery templates
for posting in schools and health posts, which will make public budget and expenditure
information much more accessible for the average Ethiopian citizen. Work on the Financial
Transparency and Accountability Perception Survey (FTAPs) i s advanced and i s expected to
generate new nationally representative information on how Ethiopians view their local service
providers and the budget decision-making process. The tri-partite Steering Committee o f
Government, CSOs and donors (including the World Bank) overseeing PBS Social
Accountability activities have met numerous times, jointly tahng forward this agenda.
Demonstration projects are underway on participatory budgeting in education and quality o f
service provision inwater and sanitation.

21.     Although Component 2 on Promoting the Health Millennium Development Goals
experienced initial slow start-up mostly related to the need to resolve differences in contractual
requirements o f the World Bank and UN agencies (UNICEFLJNFPA), implementation i s now
underway. Major packages for critical health commodities (i.e. ITNs, vaccines, ACTS,
contraceptives, cold chain equipment, indoor residual spraying) have been procured. Distribution
o f these commodities to the regions i s ongoing. Work to undertake the following pieces o f



                                                4

analytical work have been initiated: (i)    Mapping Malaria Epidemic Risk Areas in Ethiopia for
Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS);         (ii)Strengthening Epidemic Response System; and (iii)
Quantitative Services Delivery Survey (QSDS).          In addition, a logistics and supply system
strategy has been approved and i s in the process o f implementation to further strengthen the
supply chain management system. The Procurement Agent has been recruited and i s expected to
be on boardby the end o f December 2007.

22.       Component 3 on Strengthening Governance Systems on Financial Transparency and
Accountability has supported several o f the initiatives described above. This includes the
Continuous Audit exercise via the Office o f the Federal Auditor General (OFAG), recruitment of
a total o f 103 accountants and 65 IT experts throughout all Regions and the Federal level to
strengthen BOFEDMOFED accounting and reporting capacity; the procurement o f the several
budget transparency and literacy activities to be implementedat regional and woreda levels as the
baseline o f the Financial Transparency and Accountability Perception Survey (FTAPS); and the
unprecedenteddisclosure ofbudget information via the web and newspapers for public use.

23.      For Component 4 on Social Accountability, as noted above, the Steering Committee
charged with providing strategic oversight o f social accountability initiatives i s fully operational
and i s working well. A Management Agent - GTZ International Services - has been recruited,
and has taken on the primary responsibilities for the day-to-day management and coordination o f
Component activities. An international learning event on social accountability was conducted in
mid-July 2007, with about 200 CSO participants. Two demonstration projects have been
launched, and the selection o f the large-scale (multi-region) pilot initiatives are expected to be
completed by the end o f November. Almost 50 local CSOs have submitted proposals, an integral
part o f which has been letters o f commitment by local woreda administrations.

24.      Results Achieved. A key aim o f the PBS was to contribute to sustaining the
improvements achieved inmajor development indicators inrecent years, and avoid any roll-back
o f gains that might have arisen in the aftermath o f the 2005 elections. The findings confirm that
this objective has been fully met, and that highimpact interventions are yielding positive results
(details on the key performance indicators are provided in Schedule E).


 Figure 2a: Net EnrolmentRatesin PrimaryEducation               Figure 2b: Pupil-per-Teacher Ratio
        100

         90                                                       70
    S 80                                                      0
    'a,C                                                          60
         70
    2
    CI                                                       2&
         60                                                  c    50
    CI                                                        0
     s   50                                                       40
    -52
     E   40                                                   I-
                                                             -'$e
                                                              f   30
         30
    z"
    c                                                             20
         20                                                  n
         10                                                       10

         0                                                        0
            Grades 1-4 Grades 1-4 Grades 5-8 Grades 5-8                Grades 1-4    Grades 5-8
               (Girls)  (Boys)       (Girls)  (Boys)
     1  -97  (Baseline)  EV98 (Year 1) a EFY99 (Year 2)    1


                                                  5


28.      Regarding    the number       o f  health
extension workers (HEWs) deployed per rural            Figure 4: Health Extension Workers EFY97-99
kebele - a key measure o f human resources          I  ---
required for local health service delivery - the
EFY98      and   EFY99      targets   have   been           15,000
surpassed.A total of 17,653 HEWs have been
deployed, and around 6,118 more HEWs are                    10,000
under training and will be deployed in the
coming several months. Inaddition, MOH data                 5,000
show a decreasing percentage o f health posts
experiencing     stock     outs    o f  injectable               0

contraceptives, with this indicator showing clear                   1997      1998      1999

improvement inEFY98 beyond the target set by
the MOH.

29.      Rural access to potable water within 1.5 k m s i s estimated to have increased fi-om 41.2%
in EFY98 to 46.4% of the rural population in EFY99. While representing a significant
improvement, the implication still i s that over half the rural population must travel long distances
to access safe drinkingwater.

30.      Inthe agriculture sector, the cumulative number of woman headedhouseholds receiving
and using extension packages almost tripled over the past two years from 130,000 in EFY97 to
380,000 inEFY99, while falling short o f the target o f 450,000.

31.      While overall performance was strong as noted above, the Mid Term Review in May
2007 showed the need to review some o f the indicators in order to be able to assess performance
on an annual basis by using administrative data. This has necessitated modification to existing
indicators, plus substitution o f some by others that are more appropriate. These changes can be
found in Schedule E.

32.      Partnerships.Partnerships have been crucial to achieving results at scale (see below).


                  Box 1. DevelopmentPartnerships- A Cornerstone of the PBS

    The PBS has built a strong partnership across the international donor community. IDA'S
    original financing o f US$236 million for the PBS has thus far leveraged donor financing o f
    approximately USS580 million from 7 other partners -AfDB, Canada, DFID,EC, Germany
    (KfW), Ireland, and the Netherlands, bringingthe total committed financing for the PBS
    from partners including the Bank to US$816 million. Approximately 77% o f donor funds
    are channeled through Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust Funds and the remaining 23%
    i s provided through direct financing to Government in a harmonized framework. DFID i s
    planning an additional contribution o f GBP 60 million simultaneous with this proposed IDA
    additional financing, and CIDA i s processing about US$21 million equivalent additional.
    Finally, the latest partner to join the PBS i s Spain, which has initiated a "debt for
    development swap" with the Government o f Ethiopia, with the resources being channeled to
    PBS activities. The PBS resources, especially under Component 1, combines with
    Government's own resources and supports existing national systems o f management,
    service delivery, monitoring and evaluation.

    The national results reported inthe preceding section could not have been achieved at this
    scale and rapidpace without these partnerships.


                                                  7

33.      The Borrower i s in compliance with the dated covenants for the Project.

111.     Rationale for Additional Financing

34.      Duringthe PBS Mid-Term Review, the Government requestedadditional financing from
DFID, the World Bank, and other partners to continue support to the PBS for Ethiopian Fiscal
Year (EFY) 2000 (subsequently revised to also cover the first two quarters o f EFY 2001) while
preparations would be undertaken for the design o f a next phase o f support for the medium-term.

35.      Financing gap. Inaddition to closing the financing gap in EFY 2000, part o f the PBS
Additional Financing will be used to retroactively close the unforeseen financing gap under
Component 1 in EFY 1999. This gap was caused by the delay in some o f the expected donor
financing in EFY 1999, which resulted in a higher contribution to the Federal block grant by the
Government than initially expected. Additional financing i s also requested in order to address the
financing gap associated with the completion o f Component 2 - Promoting the Health
Millennium Development Goals, supported through the Project, where, in particular an
unexpected financing gap has emerged in the fight against malaria. The original IDA Grant
allocation for the PBS has been 94% disbursed as o f mid-November 2007. Thus, while the
closing.date o f the existing PBS Project i s June 2008, the bulk o f resources have already been
exhausted.

36.      Scaling up impact. Additional financing is also being sought to scale up Project
activities through the implementation o f a new and complementary activity - the Pilot Local
Investment Grant (LIG) in order to enhance the impact and development effectiveness o f the
project.    The ultimate objective o f the Government i s to introduce LIG as a national,
performance-based capital grant. This would represent a new component in the existing
intergovernmental fiscal system. The objectives o f this new capital grant would be to increase the
quantity of capital investment by providing additional money specifically earmarked for capital
investment, and to improve the quality of that investment by making access to LIG funds
conditional on meeting certain performance criteria.

37.      While the existing Component 1 (the proposed new Subcomponent l(a)) reimburses
Government for recurrent investments related to basic service delivery by regional and local
governments, the Pilot LIG would finance capital investment at the local level. The Pilot aims to
develop a better understanding o f the constraints to capital investment by local governments and
the most effective ways to address them. Broadly, these constraints comprise adequacy o f
funding, appropriateness o f systems, and availability o f capacity. An improved understanding o f
how these constraints interact to affect performance will enable them to be appropriately
addressed in the design o f the National LIG which i s expected to follow the Pilot. Additionally,
the Pilot LIG will facilitate the implementation o f new national systems and standards for capital
investment including planning and project selection, safeguards, and procurement, which are seen
as important for addressing existing constraints to quality capital investment.

38.      Inthe PBS Project Appraisal Document, the description of Component 1anticipated LIG
as an additional mechanism to broaden the dialogue on local service delivery and to provide
incentives for sub-national governments to select, implement, and maintain better capital
investment projects. Good progress in implementation o f Component 1 permits this more
comprehensive and advanced approach to local service delivery to be introduced at this time.

39.      Alignment with partners. Another key element underpinning the request for additional
financing i s to allow IDA to harmonize its financing cycle with the consortium o f donors



                                                 8

providing support to the program, especially to the Basic Services Sub-program delivered via
sub-national governments (PBS Component 1). While most partners have indicateda preliminary
willingness to continue PBS financing into the medium term, the next full operation i s expected
to be approved starting FY09. It i s envisaged that over the course o f the next 7-10 months,
Government, IDA, and other partners will jointly prepare a f i l l follow-on operation to the PBS
(currently proposed as the Enhanced Basic Services Program) for Board approval in Q1 IDA
FY09 (EFYO1). This will enable the development and timing o f the next phase o f support to the
PBS to be synchronized across financing partners. This approach i s seen by both Government
and donors as an important step in the ongoing effort to harmonize donor engagement around the
PBS, allowing for a more consistent and coherent donor-Government dialogue on the
decentralization, basic service delivery, and accountability reform agenda going forward, and
reduce transaction costs for the Government.

40.       Evolutionof AdditionalFinancingby Component and the Medium-Term.While the
implementation o f other PBS components are expected to be completed by December 2008, the
first year o f the planned two year Pilot LIG i s expected to be completed by June 2009. A second
year o f the Pilot i s planned to be financed from the proposed Enhanced Basic Services (EBS)
program which i s expected to succeed PBS. In order to complete the first year of the Pilot LIG,
the proposal for Additional Financing seeks to extend the closing date o f the PBS by 12 months
to June 2009.

41.       Consequently, it should be noted that IDA'SPBS Additional Financingperiod i s expected
to have a short overlap with the proposed EBS program. The staggering o f financing instruments
and actual financing (by component) is illustratedbelow.

 PBS & Additional Financing:Components& Disbursements

                                 2005/2006 2006/2007 2007/2008 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011
                                 EFY1998   EFY1999    EFY2OOO   EFY2OOl I EFY2OO2 I EFY2003 I


       PBS

       PBS Additional
       Financing

      EBS (proposed)



     ComDonentla
     P   PBSComp 1
     i Addl FinancingComp la
     >.  EBS Comp l a (Proposed]

     COmDOnentlb
     P   Addl Financing Comp l b




     i PBSComp2
     z   Addl Financing Comp 2
     P   EBS Comp 2 (Proposed)

     Comrronents
     i PBSComp3
     2.  Addl Financing Comp 3

     w   EBS Comp 3 (Proposed)




                                                            9

IV.     Proposed Changes

42.     Although the Project development objectives would remain unchanged and the existing
components retained, a new subcomponent for the Pilot LIG would be added as Subcomponent
I(b) to reflect scaled-up project activities. The closing date for the IDA financing would be
extended by an additional one year from June 2008 to June 2009.

43.     Component 1: Basic Services Program. This component will be amended to include
the following two subcomponents:

44.     Subcomponent l(a):        Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national
governments, Subprogram A (AjDB: US$55.00 million equivalent; DFID: US$124.00 million
equivalent; EC: US$186.28 million equivalent; Kfl: US$14.00 million; GoE: US$1,159.23
million equivalent; and IDA: US$I65.00 million equivalent). Originally prepared as Component
1, Subcomponent l(a) will continue to support the delivery o fbasic services (inhealth, education,
agriculture and natural resources, including water) provided by regional and local governments.
Additional resources will be provided to local governments through the federal block grant
transfer system fot agreed work plans covering the period EFY 2000 (IDA FY08) through the
second quarter o f EFY 2001 (IDA FY09). Part o f the additional financing will also be used to
retroactively close the unforeseen financing gap in EFY 1999, which was caused by the delay in
some o f the expected donor financing. Progress would be monitored through the implementation
o f semi-annual Joint Budget and Aid Reviews (JBARs), including performance on the four core
PBS "tests".

45.     Subcomponent l(b): Pilot Local Investment Grant (LIG) (IDA: US$20.00 million
equivalent). This i s a new activity o f the PBS Project. Subcomponent l(b) will support the
introduction, on a pilot basis, o f a multi-sector Specific Purpose Grant (SPG) from the Federal
Government, for capital investment in the following sectors: health, education, agriculture,
natural resources (including water) and roads. The ultimate objective o f Government i s to
introduce a National LIGprogram, which would be a performance-based SPG with access criteria
established inareas relevant for improving the quality o f capital investment at the local-level.

46.     The objective o f the Pilot LIG would be to better understand the constraints at the local
level to increased and improved capital spending and to support the development o f policies and
instruments to address these constraints. While vertical planning processes within sectors are
deemed to be relatively strong in Ethiopia, less emphasis has been placed on strengthening the
horizontal sector coordination mechanisms at the local-level, and particularly in ensuring that the
outcome o f this process reflects citizens' views o f needs and priorities. Therefore, one area o f
particular focus for the Pilot will be to test a new national system for local-level participatory
planning and budgeting. Additionally, the Pilot LIG will support the rolling-out and testing o f
new national standards for procurement and environmental screening o f capital projects. The
objective would be to determine how effective these new systems are in increasing the quality o f
investment in the context o f significant increases inthe funding available for capital expenditure.
The results from the Pilot LIG will be used to shape the National LIG Program. The ability to
adequately learn lessons from the Pilot LIGprogram therefore becomes paramount. A monitoring
and evaluation framework has been developed for the program with this inmind.An overview o f
this isprovided inSchedule H.

47.     The proposed additional financing o f US$20 million for the Pilot LIG would be
transferred to eligible regions according to the intergovernmental Block Grant Formula (as i s the
case under Subcomponent l(a). Regions eligible to participate in the pilot program will be those



                                                 10

that have implemented reforms under the Government's Expenditure Management and Control
Program as o f the start o f EFY 2000. These reforms are deemed important for effective fiduciary
control o f the program at local and regional level. The Regions would then provide funds to a
total o f approximately 50 local governments, over an initial period covering one fiscal year,
yielding an average capital grant o f about US$450,000 per year for a typical woreda. The funds
transferred to local governments would represent about 30% o f their total budget. By comparison,
the current median share going to the capitalbudget i s around 9% (see Schedule Ifor a discussion
o f existing capital budgeting and spending trends). This suggests that the Pilot LIG could
represent between a three to fourfold increase incapital spending inLIGpilot woredas. The value
o f LIG resources as a percentage o f the total woreda budget i s a key parameter for the Pilot LIG
design. The objective would be to provide woredas with a substantial increase in their capital
budget as compared with current trends, within the bounds o f increases that mightbe expected in
the coming years while at the same time not overwhelming existing systems and capacity.

48.      The Pilot will involve a start-up phase in EFYOO (IDA FY08) including rolling out o f
training and completion o f annual planning activities at the woreda level. Disbursements to
woredas will commence following this in the next fiscal year (EFYO1). Since the SPG i s a
standard fiscal instrument in Ethiopia, the funds will flow through regular fiscal channels,
managed by the Federal MOFED and Regional BOFEDs.

49.      For this new Subcomponent, additional institutional arrangements and implementation
procedures have been designed and will be available in an Operational Manual. Since LIG funds
will flow through regular fiscal channels it will be monitored through existing systems
established to report on public spending. The reporting already required for PBS will be
augmented inorder to track capital spending at the local level.

50.      Component 2: Promoting the HealthMillenniumDevelopment Goals, Subprogram
B. (CIDA: US$20.86 million equivalent; DFID: US$lO.OO million equivalent; EC: US$7.04
million equivalent; IDA: US$29.00 million equivalent; and the Netherlands: US$7.00 million
equivalent). Progress on procuring critical health commodities has been substantial, such that by
the end o f the first year o f the project (May 2007), 89% o f the funds made available by donors for
Component 2, had been utilized. Additional financing will continue the thrust o f the PBS toward
malaria control, reducing infant mortality through vaccines, improving the delivery o f primary
health services, family planning, and strengthening the health system, and will cover the shortfall
incommodity support and system strengthening.

51.      Critical commodity support. Based on gap analysis, there i s an estimated shortfall o f
US$16.9 million for the fight against malaria, including ITNs, equipment for malaria diagnostics,
Indoor Residual Spray, distribution o f malaria behavior change toolkits, and training o f
community health workers, which has not been covered by Government, existing PBS or other
external financing, including the Global Fund. PBS additional financing will cover US$8.0
million required for replenishment o f long-lasting ITNs, US$2.1 million for Indoor Residual
Spray (subject to the successful completion o f an assessment o f vulnerable areas and
populations), US$1.2 million for malaria diagnostics, and US$1.3 million for behavior change
toolkits. This will leave a shortfall o f about US$4.3 million, which will be covered by own
sources of MOH. In addition, there i s an estimated shortfall o f US$6.3 million for vaccines, o f
which it i s estimated that US$4.8 million will be supported from GAVI and UNICEF. Given this
expected support, IDA will finance the gap o f US$1.5 million in 2008. Further, MOH calculates
a shortfall of US24.5 million for medical equipment for 1,140 primary health centers until the
end of EFY2002. Duringthe Pre-Appraisal mission, IDA agreed to allocate US$8,2 million o f the
PBS Additional Financing for the procurement of equipment for 384 health centers that will be


                                                   11

ready by end o f EFY2001. The status o f construction o f new Health Centers will be reviewed
again in October 2008, and the allocation for HC equipment will be revised accordingly at that
time based on a reassessment o f the number o f health centers for which rehabilitation and
construction will be completed by December 2008 and for which no funds for equipment have
been secured. Finally, a gap o f US$7.5 million i s estimated for family planning and
contraceptives, against which IDA Additional Financing will cover US$5.5 million.

52.      System strengthening and capacity building. Central to the achievement o f targets under
MDG4 and 5 is the uptake and utilization of health goods supplied by the health system. The
key to ensufing sustainability and effectiveness lies in the development and strengthening o f the
various institutions and processes that form the superstructure on which the various aspects o f
production, finance, delivery, organization and management rest. MOH estimates that significant
systemic support will be needed for accelerating and sustaining malaria control and reducing
infant mortality through widespread vaccine coverage. In particular, it i s estimated that US$4.5
million will be needed for system strengthening to support the ongoing initiatives on malaria
control and reduction o f infant mortality, specifically through training o f community health
workers, transportation and distribution support, strengthening procurement systems, improving
the planning process and effecting behavioral change among consumers o f health services in
order to increase utilization. Of this, US$1.2 million will be covered by IDA'S additional
financing.

53.      Component 3: Strengthening Governance Systemson FinancialTransparency and
Accountability, Subprogram C. (DFID: US$2.99 million equivalent; EC: US$2.72 million
equivalent; and IDA: US$l.OO million equivalent).           Building on the experience during the
ongoing PBS operation, this component would help scale up local initiatives to further advance
issues o f financial transparency and accountability at local administration levels. It would also
continue to further strengthen BOFEDMOFED accounting and reporting capacity. Additionally,
a number o f studies, including an investment process review focusing on planning and budgeting,
procurement, and environmental screening, and an assessment o f the technical quality o f
infrastructure will be financed to build a robust system for the effective monitoring and
evaluation o fthe Pilot LIG. Fundingwill also be provided to carry out a post procurement review
of the Pilot LIG activities for the initial year o f implementation. Through this component the PBS
will also continue to support local initiatives on transparency and accountability, and will set
aside specific resources to this effect. Fiduciary risk will continue to be minimized through the
implementationo f the Continuous Audits at sub-national levels, bi-annual Public Expenditure and
Financial Accountability (PEFA) reviews, and carrying out semi-annual (formerly quarterly)
reviews o f budget performance under the Joint Budget and Aid Reviews (JBARs), by the
FederaVRegional Government and PBS development partners. An additional ex-post procurement
review o f local-level capital investment in LIG pilot woredas will help address fiduciary issues
related to the new Pilot LIG.

54.      Component 4: Social Accountability (no IDAjinancing; CIDA, DFID, EC, Irish and
Netherlandsjinancing of US$6million total via a Multi-Donor Trust Fund managed by the World
Bank). Pilot social accountability initiatives envisaged under this component are expected to be
implemented as planned. These initiatives were assessedfrom the outset as requiring more start-
up time owing to the nascent state of civil society organizations and the accountability and citizen
"voice" agenda in Ethiopia. Thus, Component 4 was originally scheduled to be implemented
through the end o f FY09, one year longer than the original PBS project.

55.      Activities under this Component are expected to accelerate significantly over the period
FY08-FY09 as national capacity building activities develop knowledge o f these demand-side



                                                    12

strategies, and with the implementation o f a number o f large scale pilot programs supporting
participatory planning and citizen service review initiatives being well underway. Progress made
under these initiatives will be closely monitored and will inform the design and implementation
o f additional accountability programs by civil society organizations and possible extension o f the
life-span o fthis Component.

V.       ProjectCosts andFinancing

56.      The total project cost, including taxes and duties, i s estimated at US$1,804.12 million,
with the following breakdown: AfDB: US$55.OO million equivalent; CIDA: US$20.86 million
equivalent; DFID: US$136.99 million equivalent; EC: US$196.04 million equivalent; GoE:
US$1,159.23 million equivalent; IDA: US$215.00 million equivalent; KfW: US$14.00 million
equivalent; and the Government o f the Netherlands: US$7.00 million equivalent.           'Foreign
expenditures are estimated at US$76.90 million or 4.3% o ftotal project cost.

57.      A breakdown of the proposed IDA financing for PBS components under the Additional
Financing i s provided below. Schedule A provides detailed analysis o f estimated project costs.


                                                                        ProposedIDA Additional
                    Component/ Subcomponent                                 FinancingAmount
                                                                         (US$ million equivalent)
Component1: Basic ServicesProgram
     o Subcomponent l(a): Protecting the Delivery o fBasic                        165.00
         Services by Sub-national governments (Subprogram A)
     o Subcomponent l(b): Pilot Local Investment Grant                             20.00
         (Subprogram D)

Component2: Promoting theHealth Millennium Development                             29.00
Goals (Subprogram B)

Component3: Strengthening GovernanceSystems on Financial                            1.oo
Transparency and Accountability (Subprogram C)

TOTAL :                                                                          215.00



VI.      ProjectImplementation,FinancialManagement, andProcurementArrangements

58.      ImplementationMechanisms. Both the implementation mechanisms and institutional
arrangements will largely be the same under the Additional Financing as those o f the existing
Project. At the Federal level, Ministry o f Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) in
general, and its Macroeconomic Policy and Management Department, in particular, will be
responsible for the PBS as a whole and will be the executing agency for Components 1 (both
Subcomponents l(a) and l(b)) and 3. At the regional level, Bureaus o f Finance and Economic
Development (BOFEDs) will continue to be responsible for coordinatingproject implementation.
At local level the Woreda Finance and Economic Development Offices (WOFED) and Urban
Administration Offices of Finance would be responsible for managing and coordinating day-to-
day implementation o f activities executed. The Office o f the District Level Decentralization



                                                13

Program (DLDP) o f the Ministry o f Capacity Building at federal level and its line bureaus at
regional and local levels will continue to closely collaborate with MOFED and its Bureaus inthe
overall coordinationand implementationo f Component 3.

59.      As mentioned above, the Macroeconomic Policy and Management Department o f
MOFED will be responsible for the implementation o f the new Pilot LIG Subcomponent, with
support from BOFED and WOFED staff at the regional and local levels respectively. Activities
under the Pilot LIG Subcomponent would be organized and runby regional governments who, in
turn, will report onthe use o fthe SPGto the Federal Government. Localreportingwill bebased,
to the maximum extent possible, on the realization o f existing reporting obligations to woredas.
These same local governments would be the target for a number o f capacity buildingactivities, to
be closely coordinated with the Ministry o f Capacity Building and the Public Sector Capacity
BuildingProgram(PSCAP) co-financed by IDAand anumber o fother partners.

60.      Component 2 will continue to be managed by the Federal Ministry o f Health (MOH) at
the level o f the Department o f Planning. MOH has developed an institutional fkamework for
monitoring and follow-up o f the implementation o f the Health Sector Development Program by
establishing a Central Joint Steering Committee and Regional Joint Steering Committees at
federal and regional levels, respectively.      These committees will continue to oversee the
implementation o f core activities under this Component.

61.      FinancialManagementArrangements.Financialmanagement arrangements will be the
same as for the original project since they are workmg well. These are described in Schedule F.
Specific arrangements for the new Pilot LIG Subcomponent are highlightedbelow:

62.      Annual Planning Cycle: The Pilot LIG will be an annual program synchronized with the
Ethiopian fiscal year based on the inter-governmental Block Grant formula. In preparing the
Federal budget, an allocation for the LIG would be proposed for each region. Based on these
figures recipient woredas will include LIG resources on the revenue side o f their budget.
Incorporation o f the LIG within woreda budgets i s important for promoting integrated planning
and capital budgeting at the woreda level. This system will follow the existing time-line for
determining the allocations o f the block grant as part o f the budget cycle in the inter-
governmental fiscal system.

63.      Flow o f funds and reporting: The following budget, reporting, and flow o f funds process
i s envisaged:

       The Federal Government will create a LIG SPG as a proclamation in the Federal budget,
       under MOFED, which will include allocations by region o f LIGresources.
       Funds flow will institutionally follow Channel 1; from MOFED to BOFED, and from
       BOFED to WOFED.
       Regions will be allocated a portion o f the annual financing for LIG, which will be
       deposited in the existing Regional treasury account with a new code in the budget
       proclamation to enable clear tracking. The allocation formula will follow the Block Grant
       formula.
       BOFEDswill determine individual woreda allocations for LIG (as per MOFED guidelines)
       and will inform each WOFED o f these LIG allocations.
       Woredas will include LIG resources in their budgets (to be approved by the woreda
       council) as a separate source o frevenue.



                                                14

(vi)   BOFEDs will transfer resources to woredas to the Woreda treasury account. No separate
       LIG bank account will be opened at Woreda level, and LIG financing will be pooled with
       other woreda revenues.
(vii) LIG financing will be spent and accounted for following the same rules and procedures as
       for the regular woreda budget.
(viii) Disbursement to woredas will follow existing rules for disbursements from regional to
       woreda level for the capital stream o f the Block Grant. After the initial advance,
       disbursements are made to woredas basedon the cash requirement forecast.

(ix)   WOFEDs will produce consolidated expenditure reports, as they do now, and will send to
       BOFEDs.No separate reporting will be requiredfor the LIGat woreda level.

(x)    BOFEDs have the responsibility to report to MOFED, by Pilot LIGworeda, LIGRegion to
       woreda disbursement data and total capital spending aggregated for Pilot LIG woredas in
       eligible sectors (based on the expenditure reports they receive from WOFEDs).
(xi) MOFED will consolidate the regional LIG expenditure reports and submit them as part o f
       the LIG  .
64.      Audits: Consistent with its constitutional and legal mandate, the Office o f the Federal
Auditor General (OFAG) will continue to audit the use o f all funds provided via the PBS Project
through GOE's public financial systems. It will also undertake an enhanced continuous audit o f
the regions' use o f PBS funds and the timeliness and accuracy o freporting.

65,      Procurement arrangements under the proposedAdditional Financingwill largelybe the
same as the arrangements under the ongoing Project and these are described in Schedule C. For
the Pilot LIG Subcomponent specific additional measures will, however, be required. These are
described below.

66.      Inthe public sector inEthiopia, procurement at Federallevel is governed byproclamation
no. 430/2005, `Determination procedures o f public procurement and establishing its supervisory
agency proclamation o f the Federal Democratic Republic Government o f Ethiopia' dated January
12,2005 and the Federal Public Procurement Directive o f July 2005. These procedures have been
reviewed by the World Bank as part o f the evaluation o f procurement reform and were found to
be satisfactory.

67.      Following the federal structure o f the government, procurement at regional and woreda
level is governed by codes enacted by the respective regional governments based on the model
law prepared by the Public Procurement Agency and issued by the respective regions. At the start
o f EFY 2000, the new procurement codes have been enacted by Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz,
SNNPR, Oromiya, and Tigray regions, and the City Administration o f Addis Ababa.

68.     The main outstanding issue inpublic procurement, especially at the local level, i s the lack
o f capacity. The main areas o f concern include: (i)building procurement capacity including
having trained and qualified procurement officers in place and an appropriate institutional and
decision making structure, (ii)  ensuring that awareness i s created on the applicable procedures
and rules at each woreda including availability o f standard procurement documents, and (iii)
Monitoring and Evaluation o f procurement activities including procurement reviews. PSCAP can
help address a significant part o f these issues as part o f the support to the ongoing procurement
reform program.




                                                 15

69.      Under the Pilot LIG the investments would be relatively small and widely dispersed.
Regions selected for the Pilot are those who have adopted new procurement codes based on the
model law prepared by the Federal Government, and training will be provided to all pilot LIG
woredas in application o f this new law and associated standard bidding documents. An ex-post
procurement review will be conducted on a sample basis by using consultants, and if significant
deviations from agreed procedures are found a suitable remedy will be applied.

VII.     Consistencywith CAS

70.      In January 2007, the Government finalized its Plan for Accelerated and Sustained
Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), Ethiopia's five year second PRSP and development plan
covering the period through 2010. Building on the development strategies pursued under the
SDPRP, the PASDEP maintains a strong emphasis on human development as the basic building-
block for broad-based and inclusive growth. PASDEP reinforces Government's pro-poor
spending on basic services - education, health, agriculture, and natural resources (including
water) - which are fundamental to achieving Ethiopia's MDGtargets and for which expenditures
are projected to increase significantly. Increases inpublic spending on basic services in the past
two years have been fueled in part by increased block grant transfers to regional governments,
supported by IDA and other development partners under the Protection o f Basic Services
Program. Governance i s a cross-cutting issue and the PASDEP places an emphasis on
institutional strengthening to address Ethiopia's governance agenda. Similarly, PASDEP
highlights key areas o f focus to further strengthen and build capacity to support ongoing district
level decentralization. Ethiopia's PASDEP was discussed and endorsed by the Bank's Executive
Directors inAugust 2007.

71.      The Bank's Interim CAS (ICAS FY06-FY07), while pre-dating the formal approval o f
the PASDEP, i s built to support its main objectives. The PBS i s a core part o f the ICAS and a
major contributor to the central objective o f the ICAS, supporting Government in developing,
achieving consensus with citizens on, and implementing a strengthened program o f institution
buildingand governance reform that will help accelerate Ethiopia's effortsto reduce poverty.

72.      The Bank's strategy in Ethiopia i s being updated with the preparation o f the CAS, and
will be presented to the Board by FY08 43. The CAS (FY08-FY10) will continue and
consolidate support to the PASDEP. The proposed additional financing for the PBS supports the
service delivery, governance, and harmonization and partnerships pillars of the proposed new
CAS, and allows for a scaling up o f the impact and development effectiveness o f the PBS
program.

VIII. EconomicAnalysisofFinancingGap

73.      The economic and financial analysis provided for the PBS showed high economic rates
o f return for spending on the sectors covered by the PBS - education, health, agriculture and
natural resources including water. That analysis remains relevant for this request for Additional
Financing, since the same sectors will be covered for Component la. The PBS has defined basic
services spending as spending undertaken by subnational governments (excluding Addis Ababa)
on the PBS sectors. Restrictingthe definition inthis manner ensures a focus on pro-poor spending
funded by the PBS, since spending by lower-level governments are responsible for primary and
secondary service levels which tend to be more accessible to the poor than higher service levels.

74.      A key rationale for the PBS remains its focus on additionality as one of its core
principles. Steps are taken to ensure that PBS funds are truly additional to government funds in



                                                 16

the provision o f basic services, and do not simply displace government funds that would then be
freed up for use for other purposes. The government has made a commitment to increase funding
for Federal block grant transfers to regional governments - the main source o f funding for
regional governments' spending including on basic services - from 9.56 billion Birr in EFY99 to
13.56 billion Birr in EFYOO. This i s a large increase and would in turn ensure a sharp rise in
spending on basic services.

75.      However, for the government, this commitment i s conditional on PBS donors
commensurately increasing or at the very least maintaining their funding levels for PBS
Component 1 in EFYOO relative to EFY99. The World Bank provided US$lOO million for PBS
Component 1in EFY99. Under the proposed Additiopal Financing, the bulk o f resources totaling
US$165 million will be allocated to Subcomponent l(a) - Promoting the Delivery o f Basic
Services by Sub-national governments for the whole o f EFY 2000 and the first two quarters o f
EFY 2001. Other donors like DFIDand EC will also provide similar or slightly higher levels of
funding(calculated for a year rather than 18 months) for Subcomponent l(a) inEFYOOrelative to
EFY99. This will enable the government to meet its commitment o f providing 13.56 billion Birr
o f block grant transfer funding to the regions in EFY 2000. Similar levels o f significant increases
inthe total block grant amount and Government's own financing is expected inEFY 2001 as per
Ethiopia's latest Medium-Term Expenditureand Fiscal Framework spanning EFY00-02.

76.      A target level of 13.56 billionBirr for Federalblock grant transfers to the regions inEFY
2000 is thus one o f the performance indicators for the Project. With this very large increase in
funding for regions from Federal block grants which is their main (but not only) source of
funding, it is estimated that basic services spending in EFY 2000 will be much higher at 9.18
billion Birr (equivalent o f US$1.02 billion) inEFY2000, as compared to EFY99. Insum, funding
from the World Bank and other donors for PBS Subcomponent l(a) in EFY 2000 will leverage a
large increase in government funding and thereby result in a very large increase in the total
amount o f spending on basic services inEFY 2000.

77.      An additional issue that was analyzed was with respect to the possibility o f whether the
large increases inthe inter-governmental fiscal block grants which are supported by the PBS, may
lead to disincentives for Regional revenue mobilization.        The analysis suggests that this i s
unlikely to be the case.

     First,the Government enacted presumptive tax reform two years ago to give small businesses
     (including in agriculture) an incentive to do well. As expected, the short term impact in
     EFY98 (IDA FY06) was a decline in revenue collected by Regional administrations. In the
     medium to long term, however, the reform i s expected to have a positive impact on revenue
     throughbroadening the presumptive tax base (as the informal sector turns formal).

     Second, in light o f the recent agriculture-led economic growth, Government has revised
     upward the tax rates on small business and the agriculture sector. Given the favorable
     economic conditions noted in EFY 99, the tax rate adjustment, and efforts taken to mobilize
     more resources, Regional tax revenues in EFY99 (excluding Addis Ababa) exhibited
     significant improvement.

     Third,the revisedFederalblock grant distributingformula introduced inthis FY correctedthe
     potential disincentive effect on Regional tax effort. According to the new Federal formula,
     block grant allocation to Regions are not a function o f the amount they collect (no direct link
     and thus, there will not be an offset between Regional tax effort and the Federal block grant).



                                                 17

      Rather, it provides incentive to Regions to collect more so that they can enhance their effort
      to finance Regional spending under their jurisdiction.

 0    It may also be noted that an Annual Tax Conference is held between Federal and Regional
      governments, and a semi-annual consultation forum, where various issues related to revenue
      mobilization across different tiers o f Government are ironedout.

 78.       The Pilot LIG Subcomponent is beingimplementedinorder to understand the constraints
 to increasing the quality and quantity o f capital investments to support the delivery o f basic
 services. The results will be incorporated in a National LIG program tentatively part o f future
 operations. The economic benefits o f LIG would be manifest inbetter choices and more efficient
 implementation and operation o f local infrastructure. Application o f well designed systems for
 planning, budgeting, contracting and operation can significantly increase the returns to public
 investment. As important, the adoption o f processes which increase the accountability o f public
 spending lead to increases in allocative efficiency which simply means that the benefits are the
 ones most desired by the citizenry. Given the present low levels o f capital investment by woreda
 administrations relative to their responsibility for service delivery, good economic returns from
 additional investment are likely and they can only be enhanced by the adoption o f processes to
 improve quality and accountability. Schedule Isets the context for this process.

 IX.       Appraisalof Restructuredand Scaled-UpProjectActivities

 79.       Additional Financing will largely provide for the financing gap associated with the
 completion o f Component 1 (the new Subcomponent l(a)) - Promoting the Delivery o f Basic
 Services by Sub-national Governments and Component 2 - Promoting the Health Millennium
 Goals, supported through the project. A full review o f the original project was conducted as part
 o f the Mid-Term Review o f the project in M a y 2007. The Pilot LIG Subcomponent under
 Component 1 intended to support the scaling up o f the Project's impact and development
 effectiveness in the delivery o f basic services i s a new activity and has been the subject o f
 significant discussion and design with Government for some time. A PHRD Grant has been
 under implementationsince March2006 (when the LIGwas expected to constitute a stand-alone
 operation) to support development o f a National LIG subprogram and this has financed a number
 o f critical preparatory activities including the development o f a draft Operational Manual. Review
 and finalization o f this project documentation satisfactory to IDA will be a Condition o f
 Disbursementfor this subcomponent.

 X.        EnvironmentalAssessment.

 80.       The environmental classification o fthe ongoing Project remains a Category B.

 81.       For Component 2. Project implementation will involve medical waste and use o f
 insecticides which raise safeguard issues. The Ministry o f Health has adopted physical designs for
 standard health centers and health posts that provide for the proper handling o f wastes and avoid
 environmental contamination. Small incinerators are also being usedby health centers for burning
 contaminated materials. Insecticides are used indoor and the potential for contaminating the
 outside environment i s limited in scope. The Malaria Control Program has developed four
.Residual
 guidelines namely: a) Guidelines for Malaria Control in Ethiopia; b) Guidelines for Indoor
             Spraying; c) Storage and Responsible Handling o f Insecticides for Malaria Vector
 Control; and d) Indoor Residual Spraying Training Manual. These guidelines have been
 distributed and are in use. Malaria control supervisors in each spray site have the responsibility
 to ensure adherence to the guidelines and supervisors from regional malaria control offices



                                                    18

regularly check on the proper implementation o f the guidelines. The guidelines have been
updated to capture the recent developments. No significant negative impact i s anticipated as long
as agreed safeguardmeasures are implemented.

82.      The new Pilot LIG Subcomponent will support construction o f small-scale civil works
through the multi-sector specific purpose grant (SPG) from the Federal Government. These works
will be identified and managed by woreda governments and are expected to be similar in scale
and scope to those implemented in a number o f other Bank projects in Ethiopia. An
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) in conjunction with a Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) have been completed and disclosed. The safeguard procedures will be
inputsto the Project ImplementationPlan and will include a set o f innovative Technical Planning
Guidelines for about twenty types o f investments within the existing mandate o f woredas. These
Guidelines will serve as a common practical tool at the local government level to improve project
selection and technical implementation o f the eligible public works inclusive o f environmental
and social considerations.

83.      The ESMF and RPF described above are new. The parent Project did not originally
require an ESMF/EA or an RPF. Given the Project's original scope, it had a health care waste
management plan which was disclosed in the Info Shop as the EA. The new LIG activity,
however, does trigger the safeguard policy on involuntary resettlement, for which an RPF has
been completed.

XI.      Expected Outcomes

84.      A joint comprehensive review o fthe Project's Results Framework was carried out during
the Mid-Term Review completed inMay2007. The review o fProject outcome indicators showed
(i)goodprogresstowards the initially settargets but(ii) theneedtoreview some ofthe
                                                              also
indicators in order to be able to assess performance on an annual basis by using administrative
data. The Additional Financing will draw on the Results Framework agreed during the MTR as
additional resources will largely be used to finance costs associated with the completion o f
Component 1 (the new Subcomponent 1(a)) and Component 2.

85.      Ingeneral, the expectedoutcomes as agreed duringthe MTRwill not change nor will the
monitoring techniques. During the period o f implementation for PBS these procedures have been
twice tested and have served well. Some strengthening and adjustment o f specific measures have
been agreed but the results framework i s deemed satisfactory. Additional financing for the new
Pilot LIG Subcomponent has its own indicators that focus on the success o f the SPG inpromoting
more and higher quality sustainable investments at the local level.

86.      The proposed indicators and targets for the Additional Financing are presented in
Schedule E.

XII. BenefitsandRisks

87.      The principal benefit to be derived from the proposed Additional Financing i s the
continued support to the drive to reachthe MDGs via scaling up o f basic services provided at the
local levels. Furthermore, the proposed financing would sustain the momentum created duringthe
implementation o f the ongoing PBS operation for the transparency and social accountability
agenda. Finally, by broadening the agenda to include funding for capital spending it i s expected
that the quality and efficiency o f spending on service delivery will continue to increase.




                                                 19

88.     For the existing PBS components, the risks associated with engagement and commitment
o f donors and Government, governance and accountability, technical design, fiduciary
performance, etc. have decreased as assessed via the successful implementation o f the four PBS
tests over the course o f FY07 and the first half o f FY08, including the MTR. While the risks
associated with the financial management dimensions were rated as substantial during the
preparation o f the ongoing PBS, mechanisms and controls which have been introduced- such as
the Continuous Audit, PEFA, etc. - have mitigated these risks. A full fiduciary risk assessment
has been carried out, and the findingshave been usedto review the FMriskratings accordingly.

89.     Regarding risks associated with the Pilot LIG Subcomponent, a major impediment to
better capital spending at the local level remains uneven capacity. However, the proposal to
commence with a pilot greatly mitigates this risk as the learning process i s focused on carefully
designing and testing the various elements o f capacity related to capital spending in order to
determine what i s actually needed for local governments to increase the quantity and quality o f
investment. A second risk i s that the participatory approach to planning and budgeting actually
leads to a loss o f accountability due to capture by local elites or to selection o f capital investments
that are not consistent with the achievement o f important national goals. On both counts the
proposed subcomponent mitigates these risks by developing for the pilot a standardized and
closely evaluated method of capital budgeting, planning and project selection and assures full
compatibility with sector policies through the use o f Technical Planning Guidelines that are
themselves derived from sector line ministries. Sustainability o f the benefits o f capital projects i s
always a risk because o f the difficulty that local governments have in attracting and paying
necessary staff and in funding other recurrent costs. This risk will be mitigated by providing
guidance to local governments participating inthe pilot to so that the necessary commitments are
made intheir budgets to cover these required costs.

90.     In order to respond to governance concerns, the PBS operation has been designed to
include more timely and detailed reporting on the use o f resources, explicit monitoring and
oversight o f the fairness o f the transfers, monitoring o f service delivery results at the regional and
sub-national levels, and the introduction o f measures to reinforce and enhance local
accountability to support Government's commitment to distribute resources for basic services
equitably. In addition, PBS supports the development o f accountability mechanisms on both the
government and citizens' sides that are expected to be scaled-up duringthe period covered by the
additional financing and beyond.

91.     Several measures are implementedto promote good governance, including:

    0   Semi-annual (formerly quarterly) JBAR reviews on overall Programperformance,
        following the PBS "tests" four o f additionality, fairness, accountability and fiduciary
        responsibilities;
    0   Disclosure o f public budget information at Regional/City Administration and Sub-
        Regional Levels;
    0   Capacity buildingfor improved financial transparency inMOFEDs, BOFEDs, Zonal
        Administrations and OFAG;
    0   Enhancing the understanding of budget and public expenditures amongst citizens and
        CSOs, and strengthening their capacity to engage inthese processes;
    0   Public disclosure by service facilities o ftheir annual budgetshesourcing levels, and on
        agreed performance standards and indicators as established at woredahegional levels;
    0   Implementationo fFinancial Transparency and Accountability Perception Study;
    0   Implementation of the Social Accountability pilots under PBS Component 4;



                                                   20

         Implementation o f site visits at kebele and service facility levels; and
         Implementationo f continuous audits.

92.      The Pilot LIG requirements in this area build upon existing systems, regulations and
practices, particularly those that have been developed with regard to PBS. The main components
o f the governance and accountability framework are:

         Financial reporting and audit requirements will buildon and be combined with the rest
         o f the PBS. The reporting o f capital spending, by woreda, i s available but only reported
         in aggregate under current PBS reporting. Capital spending that the Pilot LIG eligible
         woredas have undertaken will now be reported separately for the set o f Pilot LIG
         woredas.

         Communication and demand-side accountability i s at the core o f the LIG objectives o f
         making woredas more responsive to their citizens for capital spending, and in providing
         local citizens with more say in determining infrastructure priorities. Several o f the
         elements o f the Component 3 initiatives o f PBS would directly reinforce LIG; posting o f
         budgets, improved knowledge o f citizens about the budget process and participatory
         planning, as well as o fplans for capital projects are obvious items.

         The Financial Accountability and            Transparency Perception      Survey (FTAPS)
         implemented under Component 3 o f the PBS will also provide a mechanism to assess
         how effectively accountability i s working in terms o f the responsiveness o f local-
         planning processes to citizens' priorities and citizens' perceptions o f whether or not they
         are adequately consulted by their local authorities.

         A ResultsFramework has been constructed integrated with the rest o f the PBS.

93.      Overall risk assessment. In summary, the PBS additional financing i s considered to be
o f moderate risk. The original PBS program was considered to be high risk, but given the
considerable progress in implementation achieved over the past 14 months, and demonstrated
commitment by both Government and partners, the risk rating was reduced in May 2007, when
the Mid-Term Review was conducted and re-confirmed inthe course o f Appraisal in July-August
2007.

94.      Regarding country-level risk, tensions between Ethiopia and Eritrea continue at
heightened levels, the Ethiopian military has launched an offensive to subdue a rebel movement
inthe Ogadenregion, and Ethiopiantroops remain engaged in Somalia. There is the riskthat an
escalation in any o f these situations could have a deleterious impact on the implementation o f the
PBS program. Such an impact could be expected especially in the areas o f Ethiopia bordering
Eritrea and Somalia, but also more generally, since open conflict will pose demands on the
overall budget and likely draw high-level attention away fkom addressing challenges related to
program implementation.




                                                  21

Descriptionof Risks                 Probability/ Impact    Mitigation
                                 I  (Low, Moderate,
                                    Substantial, High)
      `on of Basic Services
       Deterioration inpolitical   1MIM                   I0  Joint donor political and economic
       governance environment                                 analysis facilitating common position
       resulting incalls for                                  on governance and scenario planning
       suspension o f PBS                                  0  Inclusion o f governance indicators in
       instrument, and donor                                  new PRSP (PASDEP) matrix and
       coalition may weaken                                   enhanced dialogue on governance
                                                           0  Strong pro poor bias o f PBS
                                                              instrument
                                                           0  Development and implementation o f
                                                              joint communications strategy
                                                           0  Wide range o f donors involved in
                                                              design and preparation
                                                           0  regular consultative events (missions,
                                                              reviews) planned during
                                                           -  implementation
       End-users may not apply      L/L                    0  "fairness" principle used to evaluate
       funds to basic services or                             adherence to rules at several stages
       allocate it in a fair                               0  expenditure reporting will be used to
       manner                                                 assess whether funding for basic
                                                           -  services was maintained as agreed
       Productionlag-time and       MIM                    0  UNICEF andUNFPAprocurement
       procurement delays for                                 are being used for the bulk o f the
       critical commodities in                                critical commodities given long-
       the Health MDG                                         standing purchase agreements and
       Performance Facility                                   proven procurement capacity o f both
                                                           0  For all other inputsthe Government i s
                                                              contracting a private agency to handle
                                                              procurement; this agency's mandate
                                                              will include strengtheningthe
                                                              procurement capacity o fthe Federal


4      Unevenpolitical              MIM                    0  Consensus building activities
       commitment and                                         implemented as part o f project
       institutional incentives                               implementation, and via other
       could work against                                     initiatives
       increased disclosure and                            0  Awareness-creation at each level
       downward accountability                             0  Identification o f "champions" for
                                                              change
5      Citizens may not feel        SIM                    0  Direct support to CSOs under
       free or be comfortable to                              Component 4 to strengthen voice and
       participate indemand-                                  engagement
       side accountability
       activities
6      Accountability may be        LIM                    0  Food Security Programadherence to
       weaker inprograms not                                  fiscal rules to be monitored.
       covered by the protection
       o fbasic services




                                                  22

Description of Risks              Probability/ Impact    Mitigation
                                  (Low, Moderate,
                                  Substantial, High)

7                                 L/M                    0  Reporting requirements have been
        procedures may be too                               builton existing systems to the extent
        burdensome, leading to a                            possible
        slowdown or halt in                                 Timinghas been
        implementation                                      synchronizedcoordinated to minimize
                                                            transaction costs
                                                         0  Adequate time lag for reporting
                                                            expenditure
                                                            Reducedfrequency o f review
                                                            missions to minimize transactions
                                                            costs
8       Key entities may lack
        capacity to carry out                               Incremental training and capacity
        obligations                                         building supportedby the project
                                                            Additional support provided under
                                                            Component 3
Financ '1Management
9       Quarterly and annual       SIS                      Reporting format and channel are
        financial reports are not                           based on the existinggovernment
        prepared on time.                                   system
10      Audited financial          SIS                      The capacity o f the Auditor General i s
        statements are not                                  being strengthened.
        submitted to donors on                              A specialContinuous Audit o f sub-
        time resulting innon-                               national entities o f program
        compliance                                          transactions i s being carried out and
                                                            reported quarterly by the Federal
                                                            Auditor-General. InFY07 this
                                                            included about 200 sub-national
                                                            entities
Pilot L :a1Investment Grant
11      Limitedcapacity at the
                   -    -         HIM                    0  Pilot approach focuses o n learning to
        local level for ensuring                            test various elements o f capacity and
        quality capital                                     support programs to address
        investment, particularly                            deficiencies
        planning and
        procurement




                                                        I   environmental screening to assess



                                                23

Descriptionof Risks                  Probability/Impact  Mitigation
                                     (Low, Moderate,
                                     Substantial, High)
                                                            whether national systems are applied
                                                            and the impact this has had on the
                                                            overall process.
                                                             As part o f the FTAF's, assess how
                                                            effectively accountability i s working
                                                            interms o fthe responsivenessoflocal
                                                            planning processes to citizen's
                                                            priorities and perceptions o f whether
                                                            or not they are adequately consulted
                                                            by their local authorities.
                                                            Carrying out a capacity survey to
                                                            develop detailed understanding o fthe
                                                            initial conditions and capacities for
                                                            ensuring successful implementation o f
                                                            capital investments inpilot woredas
12      Participatory approach to    WM                     Development o f a standardized and
        planning and budgeting                              method o f capital budgeting, planning,
        actually leads to a loss o f                        and project selection to be closely
        accountability due to                               monitored and evaluated.
        capture by local elites                             Planning approach also ensures full
                                                           compatibility with sector policies
                                                           through the use o f Technical Planning
                                                           Guidelines that are derived from sector
                                                           line ministries.
13      Risk to sustainability o f   MIM                    Local government's rapidly increasing
        the benefits o f capital                            block grant i s creating additional fiscal
        projects because o f the                            space for recurrent costs.
        difficulty inpaying                                Woredas participating will receive
        recurrent costs for                                training and monitoring with respect to
        operations and                                     covering costs o f O&M.
        maintenance (O&M)
14      Financialreporting on                               ExistingGovernment financial
        capital investments from                            reporting guidelines are being
       pilot woredas is delayed                             supplemented with specific guidance
                                                            to Regionslpilot woredas regarding
                                                            recording and reporting requirements
Politic
15      Lack o f separation o f      HIM                    PSCAP implementationincluding
        Party and State                                     support to Civil Service Reform
16      Lack o f Government         MIM                     Separate donor managed trust fund
        Commitment to Social                                and implementation o f Component 4
       Accountability                                       Review o f implementation during
                                                            quarterly revikws




                                                  24

              Impact         Low               Moderate            Substantial          High
   Probability
   Low                          2                 6,7,12
   Moderate                                    1,3,4,8,13,16
   Substantial                                       5               9,10,14
   High                                            11,15


XIII. FinancialTerms andConditions for the AdditionalFinancing

96.     The Additional Financing will be provided as an IDA Grant. The Country Financing
Parameters allow for up to 100% project financing, including taxes. The financing parameters
also allow for recurrent cost financing where required provided that the implications o f recurrent
cost financing on Ethiopia's fiscal situation and debt sustainability are taken into consideration.

97.     Retroactive Financing. Government has requestedretroactive financing for up to 20% o f
the total amount o f Additional Financing for all eligible expenditures that have been incurred
after January 7, 2007 and up to the date o f the grant signing. Refer to Schedule F for details.


XIV. CreditConditionsandCovenants

Conditionsfor Effectiveness

    0   Submission and adoption o fthe revised PBS Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
        Association.
    0   Agreed TOR for the PBS Annual Audit.

Conditionsfor Disbursements

        For Subcomponent 1(a) on Promoting Basic Services Delivery by Sub-national
        governments, and Component 3 on Strengthening the Governance Systems on Financial
        Transparency and Accountability: (i)    submission o f annual sub-national budget for basic
        services comprising Subprogram A satisfactory to the Association; (ii)satisfactory
        completion o f the Joint Budget Aid Review (JBAR); and (iii)       submission o f the Interim
        (Unaudited) Financial Report (IFRs).

        For Subcomponent l(b) on the Pilot Local Investment Grant, the (i)           submission and
        adoption o f an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)  submission o f
        IFR.

        For Component 2 on Promotingthe HealthMillenniumDevelopment Goals, the
        submission o f annual work plan satisfactory to the Association; and (ii)  submission of
        IFR.

FirstReview inApril 2008
        Semi-annual JBAR
        Continued dissemination o f budgets and JBAR information



                                                  25

   0  Completion of field work for "Quantitative Services Delivery Survey" (QSDS) by end
      April 2008 and dissemination of findingsby endJune 2008
   0  Completion of field work for Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) by endApril 2008
   0  Completion of "Financial Transparency and Accountability Perception Survey" (FTAPS)
      field work by endFebruary 2008 and dissemination of findings by endApril 2008
   0  Project Report

Second Review in October 2008
   0  Semi-annual JBAR
   0  Continueddissemination of budgets and JBAR information
   0  Project Report

Third Review inApril 2009
   0   Semi-annual JBAR
   0  Continued dissemination ofbudgets and JBAR information
      Follow-up of FTAPS startedby May 2009
   0  Completion of apost procurement audit review covering a minimumof 25% of Pilot LIG
      woredas by May 31,2009.
      Project Report




                                            26

                                                                         SCHEDULEA



                 FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                         ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                          PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES


                            ESTIMATED PROJECTCOSTS
                                (in US$million equivalent)

Category                                           Local      Forei     Total
1. Component 1                                                         1
 (i)Deliveryof BasicServices(SubprogramA)           1,703.51              1,703.5 1

  (ii) InvestmentGrant(SubprogramD)
    Local                                              15.OO                 20.00

2. Component 2: HeathMDGPerformance Facility             3.50    70.40       73.90
(Subprogram B)
3. Component 3: Financial Transparency and               5.21      1S O       6.71
Accountability (Subprogram C)
TotalProiectCosts                                   1.727.22     76.90    1.804.12


                               SOURCEOF FINANCING
                                (in US$million equivalent)




Government                      1,159.23            -   1,159.23
                Total:          1,727.22       76.90    1,804.12       4.3%




                                           27

                                                                         SCHEDULEB



                 FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                          ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                          PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES

                                     FINANCINGPLAN
                                  (in US$million equivalent)


          Project Cost by Component                 IDA      GOE      DONOR TOTAL
1. Sub-National Basic Services

   (i) Sub-nationalBasicServices                    165-00 1,159.23     379.28 1,703.5 1
           (Subprogram A)

   (ii) LocalInvestmentGrant                         20.00                       20.00
            (Subprogram D)
2. HealthMDGs Performance Facility                   29.00               44.90    73.90
(Subprogram B)
3. Financial Transparency and Accountability           1.oo               5.71     6.71
(Subprogram C)
Total Baseline Cost                                 215.00  1,159.23    429.89 1,804.12
Contingencies
                              TotalProject Costs    215.00  1,159.23    429.89 1,804.12
                     Interest During:Construction
                                    Front-endFee
                      TotalFinancingRequired        215.00 1,159.23     429.89 1,804.12



                              DISBURSEMENTSCHEDULE
                                  (in US$million equivalent)
        I          IDA FY              I    FY 2008        I      FY2009

          Annual                              130.00               85.00
          Cumulative                          130.00              215.00




                                             28

                                                                  SCHEDULEB



          ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                  Protectionof Basic       Additional       % of expendituresto be
Category           Services Grant       FinancingAmount           financedfor
                  (OriginalProject)         (in SDR)          SupplementalGrant
                                                                    Amount
1. SubprogramA                                             Such percentage of Eligible
                                                           Expenditures as the
                                                           Associationmay determine
                                                           for EFYOO
2. Subprogram B                                            Suchpercentageof Eligible
                                                           Expenditures as the
                                                           Associationmay determine
                                                           for eachEFY
3. Subprogram C             1,400,000              640,000 Such percentage of Eligible
                                                           Expenditures as the


4. SubprogramD  i                                          Association may determine
                                      I                    for each EFY
                                                12,740,000 Such percentage of Eligible
                                                           Expenditures as the
                                                           Association may determine
                                                           for eachEFY
5. Unallocated
                            2,130,000 I
Total                     149,600,000 1        137,050,000




                                       29

                                                                                      SCHEDULE C


                    FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING FORTHE
                              PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES


                              PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS
                                     (in US$million equivalent)


1.        General


Procurement associated with project activities supported through the additional financing would
be carriedout inaccordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004 revised October, 2006 and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers " dated M a y 2004 and revisedOctober,
2006.

Inthe public sector in Ethiopia, procurement at Federal level is governed by proclamation no.
430/2005, `Determination procedures o f public procurement and establishing its supervisory
agency proclamation o f the Federal Democratic Republic Government o f Ethiopia' dated January
12,2005 and the Federal Public Procurement Directive o f July 2005. These procedures have been
reviewed by the World Bank during procurement reform follow-up missions and were found to
be generally satisfactory.

Following the federal structure o f the government procurement at regional and woreda level i s
governed by codes enacted by the respective regional governments based on the model law
prepared by the Public Procurement Agency and issued to the respective regions. At the time of
the preparation o f this note new procurement codeshave been enacted at the four major regions
(Amhara, SNNPR, Oromiya and Tigray), one smaller region (Benishangul-Gumuz), and one City
Administration (Addis Ababa).

The main outstanding critical issue inpublic procurement, especially at the local level, i s the lack
o f capacity. While capacity i s being built at country level a temporary strategy to address the
issues on procurement management needs to be developed. The main areas o f concern include: (i)
Building procurement capacity including having trained and qualified procurement officers in
place and an appropriate institutional and decision making structure, (ii)   Insuringthat awareness
i s created on the applicable procedures and rules at each woreda including availability o f standard
procurement documents, and (iii)    Monitoring and Evaluation o f procurement activities including
procurement reviews. PSCAP resources can be used to address a significant part o f these issues as
part o f the support to the ongoing procurement reform program.

11.       Summaryof ProcurementPerformanceunderthe OriginalProject

Procurement performance o f the existing project activities has been satisfactory, and has
contributed significantly to the achievement o f many o fthe key results o f this project.




                                                 30

                                                                                   SCHEDULEC


For Component 2, the procurement o f ITNs and insecticides, and subsequent distribution in the
malarious areas to vulnerable households, has contributed significantly to the reduction o f
morbidity and mortality associated with malaria. The procurement o f contraceptives and
subsequent distribution to targeted population has contributed to an increase in the contraceptive
prevalence rate. The procurement o f cold-chain equipment (refrigerators, vaccine carriers, etc.)
has enabled health centers and health posts to carry and store vaccines that were not available
earlier.

With the exception o f cold-chain equipment and insecticides, the bulk o f the procurement has
been done from UN agencies, chiefly UNICEF and UNFPA, and given the urgent nature o f this
procurement, it i s proposed to continue with this arrangement until the capacity within the MOH
procurement office i s sufficiently strengthened. An assessment carried out as part o f the semi-
annual JBAR review shows that a large percentage o f items procured through UN agencies has
been delivered or i s inthe warehouse awaiting delivery. The assessment underscores the need for
UNagencies through whom these items are being procured to expedite delivery, and this issue
has been taken up at the appropriate levels inthese agencies.

For Component 3, the Government has procured several consultancies as well as goods utilizing
the agreed procurement methods as definedinthe procurement plan for the ongoingProject.

111.    DescriptionofProcurementArrangementsfor the AdditionalFinancing

The general description o f various procurement activities under        the different expenditure
categories for the Additional Financing i s provided hereafter. For each contract to be financed by
the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank project team during Negotiations and are described in the
Procurement Plan (attached). The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Procurementfor Component 1

Subcomponent 1(a) - Promoting the Delivery o f Basic Services by Sub-national governments
(Subprogram A)     - The bulk o f this component would entail payments o f salaries and other
recurrent expenditures, following the local government's procurement procedures and rules
acceptable to the Bank as i s the current practice under the ongoing PBS Project.

Subcomponent 1(b): Pilot Local Investment Grant (LIG) (Subprogram D) would support the
introduction o f a Federal Specific Purpose Grant to be used exclusively for capital investment
implemented by local governments. It would include investments in health, education,
agriculture, water, and roads. The grants would be used primarily for works and associated goods
and equipment. Individual contracts are expected to be small and scattered, with an estimated cost
below $50,000. Procurement o f these contracts will follow the local government's procurement
procedures and rules acceptable to the Bank.




                                                  31

                                                                                  SCHEDULEC

Procurementfor Component2: Promotingthe HealthMillenniumDevelopmentGoals
(Subprogram B):

         Procurement of Goods: The Procurements under the Component would include ITNs,
drugs, rapid test diagnostic kits to primary health centers, vaccines and medical equipment. The
procurement would be carried out usingthe same procurement arrangements as with the ongoing
project, either from UNAgencies such as UNICEFand UNFPA or through a procurement agent.
The applicable method o f procurements have been agreed and defined inthe project procurement
plan.

         Selection of Consultants: Consultants services shall include Studies, training,
workshops. The procurement procedures to be used for the additional financing are described in
the attached Procurement Plan.

Procurementfor Component 3: Strengthening Governance Systems on Financial Transparency
and Accountability (Subprogram C): The procurement shall include consultant services (studies,
assessments, reviews) and procurement o f goods (see procurement plan) and shall be conducted
byusingthe procurement procedures inthe attachedProcurement Plan..

IV.      Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

The overall risk assessment for procurement i s considered to be high. Key mitigating measures
that have been discussed and agreed with Government are described in the Risk Assessment
Matrix in Section XI1 o f the Project Paper. In addition, a set o f procurement capacity building
initiatives that have been started as part o f the ongoing project and updated based on the
assessments conducted during supervision missions. The assessment and the ongoing and agreed
actions are summarized below:

For Subcomponent l(b), Pilot LIG-

     0   Only Regions that have implemented the national accounting and procurement reforms
         under the Government's Expenditure Management and Control Program are eligible to
         receive funding from the Pilot LIG.

         As part o fpreparation o fthe Pilot LIG Subcomponent, an initial capacity assessmentwas
         carried out o f a sample o f woredas. Once the pilot woredas have been identified, a
         Capacity Survey would be carried out in all pilot woredas, which would include a
         detailed assessment as to the extent to which the woreda i s able to follow national
         procurement procedures. The assessment would include availability o f staff with
         adequate knowledge in procurement, appropriate institutional setup and existence o f
         tender committee. The agreed national procedures would apply to all capital investments
         inthe Pilot LIGrecipientjurisdictions.

         Any significant capacity gaps identified by the Capacity Survey would be addressed
         before the start o f the Pilot LIG implementation, and modalities for the oversight by
         MOFED would be agreed.




                                                32

                                                                                     SCHEDULE C


         A procurement manual, including related procurement capacity building requirements
         and national .bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, are in an advanced state o f
         development and will be developed in conjunction with the preparation o f a detailed
         Operational Manual for the LIG Subcomponent. The satisfactory completion o f the LIG
         Operational manual inits entirety i s a condition o f disbursement for the Pilot LIG.

         A post procurement review, including a review ofthe adequacy o f agreed procedures will
         be conducted on a sample basis by using consultants engaged by the Project and if
         significant deviations from agreed procedures are found, suitable remedies would be
         applied.

For Component 2, Health MDGs Performance Facility -

         A procurement consultant has already been appointed in the Ministry o f Health and has
         been working closely with the Ministryofficials since the beginning o f 2007.

         Two officials from Ministry o f Health have received training in Bank procurement rules
         inaregionalworkshop organizedbythe Bankfor thispurpose.

         A procurement unit has been set up within the Ministry o f Health, but full-time
         procurement staff has not yet been identified.

         The process for identifying a Procurement Agent i s completed and it i s expected that the
         Procurement agent will be in place by December 2007. The Procurement Agent i s
         expected to provide additional capacity buildingwithin the Ministry o f Health and assist
         inthe establishment ofa functioningprocurement unit.

For Component 3, Financial Transparency -

          A full-time procurement consultant was recruitedto support the consultancies conducted
          under this component o f the original project. This arrangement i s expected to continue
          throughout the life o f the Additional Financing.

V.       ProcurementPlan

The Borrower has developed a Procurement Plan for Components 2 and 3 for the Additional
Financing, which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been discussed
with the Bank and agreed upon duringnegotiations. The procurement plan i s available inthe PBS
Unit Office of MOFED, in the Ministry of Health, the Project's database and in the Bank's
external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.




                                                  33

                                                                                 SCHEDULE C

A consolidatedprocurement plan would not be required for the small value works activities to be
carried out at woreda level under the Pilot LIG as the contracts are small value and planned and
executed ina widely dispersed manner inaccordance with the local governments' work plan.

Once Pilot woredas receiving LIG resources have decided what capital investment activities will
be undertaken, they will be expected to have local procurement plans and related documents
available for the post-procurement audit.




                                              34

                                                                               SCHEDULEC


                      Protectionof BasicServices Project-AdditionalFinancing
                                             ProcurementPlan

                                             November14,2007


I. GENERAL

1.1    Projectinformation:
             Country:          FederalDemocraticRepublicof Ethiopia
             Project Name:     Protectionof Basic Services
             Loadcredit No: H224-1-ET
             Project Implementing Agency (PIA):
                  1. Component 1:Ministryof FinanceandEconomicDevelopment,assistedby its
                       Macro economic PolicyandManagementDept., MPMD)
                 2. Component 2: Ministryof Health(MOH)
                 3. Component 3: Ministryof FinanceandEconomicDevelopment,assisted
                      MPMD

1.2    Bank's approval date of the procurement Plan:           November 12,2007
1.3    Date of General Procurement Notice:                     January 2008
1.4    Period covered by this procurement plan:                January2008 - June 2009


II. ProcurementPlan

2.1    GOODS

SIN   Descriptionof goods  Estimated      Procurement  Responsible   Domestic   Review by Expected bid
                              cost          method       entity      preference  Bank     opening date

     Component 2 - Promotingthe Health MillenniumDevelopmentGoals, SubprogramB
                            (in US%)

   1 ITN                      8,000,000   DCLJNICEF      MOH            No       Prior       N/A

  2  DiagnosticiLaboratory    1,200,000      ICB         MOH            Yes      Prior    January 2008
     Equipment
  3  Vaccine                  1,490,000   DCAJNICEF      MOH            No       Prior       NIA
  4  Medical Equipment        8,210,000      ICB         MOH            Yes      Prior    January 2008
     for HPs 1HCs
  5. IRS                      2,090,000      ICB         MOH            Yes      Prior     July 2008
  6.IMalaria IEC/BCC            900,000      NCB         MOH            Yes      Prior     May 2008
     Toolkits




                                               35

 2.2 CONSULTANT SERVICES




I    I
     I                            I                       I       I          I             I
      Subtotal                    I$2,370,000  II

      Component 3    -StrengtheningG  vernance Systf                   Accounta ility
      Design, Fielding & Analysisof      $350,000                      Prior    30-May-2009
      Follow-up Financial&
      AccountabilityPerceptionSurvey
      (FTAPS)


      Reviews for Local Investment
      Grant:                                         MPMD     Various  Priori   31-May-2009
                                                                        Post
          (0        Technical output
                    assessment         (i) $270,000


          (ii)      Investment
                    ProcessReview      (ii) $230,000


          (iii) Ex-post
                    Procurement        (iii)$60,000

                             Subtotal    $910,000




                                                  36

c
2.3 CAPACITY BUILDING


                                              Estimated                             Review         Expected
              Descriptionof Assignment                   Responsible   Selection    by Bank        Proposals
                                                  cost     entity      Method     (Prior / Post)  Submission
                                                                                                     Date


     *LIG Coordinator for 1year              $25,000    MPMD          IC
     **PBS  Unit Office Assistant (1 yr)     $20,000    MPMD          IC
     * PBS SOC
             Unit ProcurementSpec (1 yr)      $30,000   MPMD          IC
       PBS       Accountability Spec (lyr)    $25,000   MPMD          IC
     Training of BOFED & WOFED staff on      $57,350    MPMD          COS        Prior
     financialaccountability& transparency&
     utilization of Laypersons' Budget &
     Expend.Guides and Templates
7    Training of BOFEDs & WOFEDs on          $45,400    MPMD          CQS        Post
     Physical and FinancialReportingSystems
     Trainingon WB Procurementand Contract    $48,000   MPMD          CQS        Post            Over the period
     Management                                                                                  FY08 and

     Training on FinancialAccountability,    $30,000    MPMD          CQS        Prior           30 July 2008
     Transparencyand demand-sidegovernance

I    Subtotal:                               $280,750




                                                    37

                                                                              SCHEDULE D


                  FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                           ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                     PROTECTIONOF BASIC SERVICES PROJECT


                TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS


Milestone                                 Available Date



Time taken to prepare                  6 months

Preparedby                             Government with assistance o f IDA and DFIDStaff

Appraisal                              August 31,2007

Negotiations                          November 19-21,2007

Estimated Board date                   December 20,2007

Planned Date o f Effectiveness         January 7,2008

Closing Date                           June 30,2009




The Additional Financingwill be processed following streamlined procedures.


Project Team: The preparation team includes: Messrs./Mmes. T i n a Haque, Lead Economist
and Team Leader, Mukesh Chawla, Lead Economist; William Wiseman, Economist; Andrew
Sunil Rajkumar, Economist; Gebreselassie Okubagzhi, Sr. Health Specialist;  Sybille Schmidt,
Consultant; Larissa Pelham, Consultant; Southsavy Nakhavanit, Program Assistant, Ken Green,
Environmental Specialist Consultant, Ian Campbell, Environmental Specialist Consultamt
(AFTH3); Marilou Bradley, Sr. Operations Officer (AFTH1); Jemal Omer, Sr. Economist
(AFTP2); Lawrence Hannah, Lead Economist (FEU); Carolyn Winter, Sr. Social Development
Specialist (AFTCS); Berhanu Legesse, Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist (AFTPR);
Abebaw Alemayehu, Sr. Urban Development Specialist (AFTU1); Jonathan Pavluk, Sr. Counsel
(LEGAF); Suprotik Basu, Health Specialist (AFTHD); Marie Khoury, Consultant, Luis Schwarz,
Sr. Finance Officer (LOAFC); T.K. Balakrishnan, Lead Financial Management Specialist, Jean
Charles Amon Kra, Sr. Financial Management Specialist, Mulat Negash Tegegn, Financial
Management Consultant (AFTFM); Samuel Haileselassie, Sr. Procurement Specialist (AFTPC).
Ms.LauraFrigentiis the Sector Manager.




                                             38


0 m
 -      2 vi        0 vi
                     T




  mf.    z  r.    ri  3




                               c*




                        d 0

       E:0E d   a




             2z




Nxs

4    0s    x s    E d        m  B   n




                              El 8   n




                         Elri     ds   m

m

                                                    E
3? 00 Em    2   E    1:M     01       ? mE?           z


  2                                                  E
             3 3                           3           z

                               -0cI--,      E!
                            E                  Y




     i

                                                                                   SCHEDULEF



                  FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                            PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES


        FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS


Introduction

This financial management (FM) assessment was conducted in accordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on November
3, 2005. Inaddition, OP/BP 13.20, Additional Financing, was also taken into consideration while
conducting the assessment. This assessment was done inthe months o f July and August 2007.

Substantial amount o f the total additional financing (US$194 million) i s required to address the
Jinancing gap in completing core activities under Subcomponent 1(a) and Component 2
supported through the ongoing Protection o f Basic Services (PBS) Project. Thus, an additional
FMassessment is not carried out for these components, as the FMarrangements will be the same
as for the ongoing project. However, since the additional financing incorporates new activities
under the Pilot Local Investment Grant window (Subcomponent l(b), US$20 million), a full FM
assessment has been carried out to determine whether the implementing entities have acceptable
financial management arrangements, which will ensure (1) the funds for the LIG are used only for
the intended purpose in an efficient and economical way, (2) the preparation o f accurate, reliable
and timely periodic financial reports for LIG financial transactions, and (3) safeguard the entities'
assets. This FMassessment draws extensively on the assessment o f the FM system o f the ongoing
PBS, the Fiduciary Assessment (FA), assessment o f the Joint Budget and Aid Review (JBAR)
and the assessment o f government FMsysteminother projects.

Summary ProjectDescription

The additional financing supports activities under three main categories: Subcomponent 1(a)
(US$165 million) - Basic Services, Subprogram A- finances the delivery o f basic services
provided by regional and local governments; Subcomponent 1(b) - the Pilot Local Investment
Grant, LIG, Subprogram D (US$20 million) - supports the introduction o f a multi-sector specific
purpose grant; Component 2 (US$29 million) - Promoting the Health Millennium Development
Goals, Subprogram B - finances those critical inputs for primary health service delivery that
cannot be efficiently funded at woreda level through the block-grant; Component 3 (US$1
million) - Strengthening Governance Systems on Financial Transparency and Accountability,
Subprogram C- finances the scaling up o f local initiatives to advance issues o f financial
transparency and accountability around public finance management at the sub-national levels o f
government.

The Pilot LIG Subcomponent l(b) o f the PBS Project would support the scaling-up o f the
existing Program's impact on basic service delivery. This new subcomponent would support the
introductiono f a multi-sector specific purpose grant (SPG) from the Federal Government with the
purpose o f increasing the quality and quantity o f capital spending by local governments. The


                                                45

proposed additional financing o f US$20 million for the Pilot LIG would provide funds to up to
fifty local governments (woredas) over an initial period o f one fiscal year.

Country Issues

The recently completed Joint budget and Aid review (JBAR)and the Fiduciary Assessment (FA)
show that Ethiopia has made significant progress in strengthening public financial management in
recent years. The JBAR, which was conducted by the Bank in collaboration with other donors,
reviewed the Public Financial Management (PFM) system using the Public Expenditure and
Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework. Out o f the sixteen indicators covered under this
review, fourteen were on government's systems for public expenditure planning, budgeting and
reporting. The remaining two indicators are means to assess donor performance. Ethiopia scored
high on seven o f the fourteen indictors, i.e. macroeconomic management, including aggregate
fiscal discipline and minimizing fiscal risks. The JBAR observes satisfactory progress in
budgeting and accounting reform but notes that the adequacy and quality o f budget reporting
leaves room for improvement andremain a key concern.

The FA, which was completed in early 2005, notes that considerable progress has been made in
implementing PFM reforms in both federal and regional levels. The areas o f improvements
include budget processes, internal controls and cash management. Also, some steps have been
taken inreforming internal and external audits. However, there are some weak areas that require
attention  - delays in financial reporting (both in-year and annual), inadequate capacity o f the
auditors-general to discharge their responsibilities, and weakness in legislative scrutiny o f audited
financial reports.

The status o f P F M reform and performance varies between regions. Southern Nation and
Nationalities Peoples (SNNP) and Tigray regions have been the beneficiaries o f investment and
local initiatives to support PFM reform. They both show improvement in the overall public
finance function and a consequential reduction in fiduciary risk. Other Regions are at an earlier
stage o f investment in P F M or have not yet commenced their plans and therefore demonstrated
less progress inPFMimprovement. However, there continues to be capacity and staffing issues in
areas such as audit in all the regions. An additional concern i s that while there have been
improvements in the financial discipline associated with government funds, the increasing use o f
other funding mechanisms such as in the Food Security Program has the potential to increase
fiduciary risk. This i s because the use o f alternative funding mechanisms creates additional
workload in areas where capacity i s already stretched. It must be noted that there i s a shortage o f
qualified accountants and auditors inthe country.

Ethiopia's public financial management reforms have been carried out through the Expenditure
Management and Control sub-program (EMCP) o f the government's civil service reformprogram
(CSRP). EMCP has developed a revised strategic plan to implement the nine components o f the
sub-program. Mobilization behindthe EMCP (interms o f financial and humanresources) i s a key
component of the Public Sector Capacity Building Program (PSCAP) and has now been
considered a priority in order to achieve further improvement in all aspects of financial
management.

Overview of the PEFA assessmentreport

An evaluation o f Public Financial Management (PFM) performance in Ethiopia has been
conducted in early 2007 based on an international reference framework - the PEFA or Public
Expenditure and Financial Accountability framework. The assessment was done at the federal


                                                  46

and regional levels and two separate reports were issued. Seven regions were included in the
assessment.

The assessment report issued in April 2007, which i s still in its draft form, observed significant
improvement inthe area o f financial management at regions, including budgetary transparency 'in
recent years, robust budget preparation, regular internal audit scrutiny and follow up o f internal
audit recommendations, timeliness of in-year and annual financial reports, and mutual
supportiveness o f the federal and regional Auditor Generals. Nonetheless, the report noted that
the quality andnature o finternal audit is uneven throughout the regions. It also reported untimely
clearance o f suspense accounts and that some regions are still experiencing significant delays in
producing timely in-year and end o f year information. The report further identified capacity
limitations inreviewing annual budgets.

The report for the assessment conducted at the federal level shows that the classification o f the
budget meets international standards and the information included inthe budget documentation is
o f good quality. The fiscal relations between the federal government and the regions are
transparent. The report also noted that the budget process i s well ordered with the existence o f a
budget calendar generally adhered to, and a budget circular issued to budgetary institutions.
Payroll and procurement controls are identified as being satisfactory while control for non-salary
expenditure shows some weaknesses. Internal audits are also improved over recent years although
the department does not share its work with the Federal Auditor General. The report indicated
that the quality o f in-year budget reports and annual financial statements i s satisfactory and delays
insubmitting financial statements to OFAGhave been significantly reduced. However, the report
also noted that the cash flow management i s not fully established and the public has limited
access to key fiscal information.

The Federal government report also shows that the OFAG adheres to INTOSAI auditing
standards and focuses on significant issues. OFAG forwards audited accounts on time and these
are reviewed by the parliamentary Public Accounts Committee (PCA). However, the review by
the PCA i s not systemic due to limited capacity and time constraints and the executive does not
act upon the recommendations.

The report also looked at the status o f the government reform processes. It i s highlighted that the
first phase o f the reform (transaction platform) has taken place through budgeting, planning,
accounting, and information systems. The second phase o f the reform, policy platform, i s
continuing at the sub-national level with reforms to the block grant mechanisms and a move
towards more performance basedbudgeting. The government leadership and ownership regarding
ongoing P F M reform efforts are both high.The report however observed challenges in carrying
out these reforms: difficulty in accessing the PSCAP funds into which the Expenditure Control
and Management Program (ECMP) i s tied to, qualified professional staff are thin at the sub-
national level, particularly at the woreda level, and lack o f some basic office infrastructure.

RiskAssessmentandMitigation

The FM risk assessment, and the corresponding mitigation measures, for the Pilot LIG
Subcomponent are given below:




                                                  47

     Risk       Risk      RiskMitigating          Conditions               Remarks
               Rating Measures Incorporated           for
                         into Project Design     Effectiveness
                                                    (Y/N)?
Inherent Risk
1 Country      S                                N              Risk arises because o f weak
  Level                                                        capacity, including shortage o f
                                                               qualified accountants and
                                                               auditors. It i s being addressed
                                                               by the ongoing Civil Service
                                                               ReformProgram supportedby
                                                               PSCAP.
1 EntityLevel  S                                N              As above
1 ProjectLevel S      MOFED, BOFED and           N             As above. The problem mainly
                      zones recruited                          manifested inworedas.
                      additional accountants
                      for PBS.
Control Risk
1 Budgeting    L                                 N             LIGbudgeting follows the
                                                               existing government budget
                                                               processes
1 Accounting  M                                  N             LIG transactions will be
                                                               recorded using the government
                                                               accounting system
1 Internal    M       The LIG financial          N
  Control             activities will be subject
                      to continuous audit by
                      the OFAG.
1 Fundsflow   M                                  N             Regular established
                                                               government funds flow
                                                               mechanisms will be used.
1 Financial    S      Mechanisms for             N              The reporting system involves
  Reporting           information flows and                    gathering information from
                      consolidation have been                  significant number o f woredas
                      agreed. Report based                     and their consolidation.
                      disbursement shall be
                      used for LIG which
                      provides incentives for
                      prompt reporting.
                      Contents o f the IFRs and
                      annual financial
                      statements have been
                      agreed.
1 Auditing     S      The LIG financial          Y             Delays insubmission o f audit
                      activities will be subject               reports has been a significant
                      to continuous audit. The                 problem inthe IDA-financed
                      scope o f the audit and                  portfolio. The dispersion o f
                      audit arrangements have                  funds across various woredas
                      been agreed. Detailed                    poses challenges.
                      terms o freference for
                      the audit are being
                      finalized.
        H=Hig S=Subs ntial; M=Moderate; L=



                                              48

The overall financial managementriskrating for the LIGis assessedas substantial.

Strengths andWeaknesses

As noted in various reports the country's discipline in executing budget and compliance with the
existing government regulations are the major strengths in implementing Pilot LIG
Subcomponent. The proposed FM arrangement will avoid setting up parallel system for the flow
o f funds, recording financial transactions, reporting and auditing. The government's existing
arrangements are already being used in a number o f projects, including PBS which i s currently
under implementation.

The main weaknesses for the FM arrangements o f the Pilot LIG Subcomponent, as it i s part o f the
overall PBS program, include shortage o f qualified accountants and auditors (mainly at woredas),
delay in reporting, limited focus o f internal audit, and understaffing o f the audit function. The
long process involved inproducing reports from woredas to regions, and from regions to Ministry
o f Finance and Economic Development (MOFED), may delay the timely submission o f financial
reports to the DPs. Obtaining timely audit reports and timely and relevant financial reports was
noted as a problem in most o f the diagnostic works conducted for Ethiopia. Overdue external
audit reports for two projects and one IDF Grant implemented by MOFED and M O H (the
Productive Safety Nets Project (PSNP), the Health Sector Development Project (HSDP), and an
IDFGrant) havebeencompleted and submitted to the Bank.

       Significant Weaknesses                 Action                Responsible         Completion Date
                                                                        Person
    The programis                 . strengthen the monitoring     .MOFED              .ongoing
    implementedby various                                         ..
                                    capacity at federal and
    agencies, including regions     regional level
    and woredas                   . regular supervision by DPs     IDA and other       ongoing
                                                                   DPs
    Auditing may take long time Strengthen the capacity o f        OFAG,               Ongoing
    to complete                   OFAG                             MOFED
    Regular financial reports     Establishment and operations     MOFED,               Ongoing
    may not be received on time   o f a smooth information flow    BOFEDs,
    from woredas and reeions      and consolidation system         WOFEDs

ImplementingEntities

The implementationarrangements under the additional financing would be largely the same as for
the ongoing PBS project. MOFED will be the overall implementing agency responsible for
Components 1 and 3, including the Pilot LIG. It will have the overall responsibility for the
oversight, coordination, monitoring and evaluation o f project activities across these two
components. At the regional level, Bureaus o f Finance and Economic Development (BOFEDs)
will continue to be responsible for coordinating project implementation. At local level the
Woreda Finance and Economic Development Offices (WOFEDs) and Urban Administration
Offices o f Finance would be responsible for managing and coordinating day-to-day
implementation o f activities executed. The Office o f DLDP o f the Ministry o f Capacity Building
at federal level and its line bureaus at regional and local levels will continue to closely collaborate
with MOFED and its Bureaus in the overall coordination and implementation o f Component 3.
Component 2 will continue to be managed by the Federal Ministryo f Health (MOH).




                                                    49

The wide scope o f the Pilot LIG requires a fairly complex implementation arrangement. Pilot
activities are spread over in selected regions and woredas.

Budgeting

The Ethiopian budget system i s complex, reflecting the fiscal decentralization structure. The
budget is processed at federal, regional, zonal (in some regions), and woreda and municipality
levels. The federal budgeting process usually starts by issuingthe budget preparation note to the
Budgetary Institutions (BIs). Based on the budget manual, the BIs prepare their budgets in line
with the budget ceilings and submit these to MOFED within six weeks following the budget call.
The budgets are reviewed at first by MOFED and then by the Council o f Ministers. The final
recommended draft federal budget i s sent to parliament inearly June and i s expected to be cleared
at the latest by the end o f the Ethiopian Fiscal Year (EFY). The JBAR notes the need for the
budget process to be more transparent and systematic in the areas o f administration o f federal
transfers and inter-sectoral allocation, and budget reviews.

The LIG will be an annual program synchronized with the Ethiopian fiscal year. Inpreparingthe
Federal budget, an allocation for the LIG would be proposed for each region. Regions will
determine appropriate woreda allocations. Based on these indicative figures, recipient woredas
will include LIG resources on the revenue side o f their budget. Incorporation o f the LIG within
woreda budgets i s important for promoting integrated planning and capital budgeting at the
woreda level. This system will follow the existing time-line for determining the allocations o f the
block grant as part o f the budget cycle inthe inter-governmental fiscal system.

Accounting

The Government's accounting policies and procedures will be used for LIG. Starting from July
2002, the Ethiopian government has introduced a double entry modifiedcash basis o f accounting.
The new reform has been implemented at the federal level and in many regions. The main
elements o f the accounting reform are the adoption o f (i)    a revised and comprehensive chart of
accounts consistent with the new budget classification, (ii)system o f ledgers accommodating all
                                                               a
types o f accounts (including transfers, assets, liabilities and fund balance in addition to revenues
and expenditures), (iii)double entry book-keeping (thus, self balancing set o f accounts), (iv) a
system o f control o f budgetary commitments (recording commitments as well as actual
payments), (v) modified cash basis transaction accounting, and (vi) revised monthly report
formats to accommodate double-entry book-keeping and commitment control and permit better
cash control.

The computerized Integrated Budget and Expenditure (IBEX) accounting system i s now
operational at the federal level (MOFED and in 100 o f the 163 federal reporting entities) and
most regions. Installation o f this system i s being carried out in Afar and Gambella regions. It i s
expected that all regions, except Somali, shall use IBEX system starting from the EFY 2000 (FY
2007/08). The rolling out o f IBEX system to zones has continued and three regions (Oromia,
SNNPR and Amhara) have already introduced the system in selected zones. The IBEXrolling out
exercise i s expected to continue and will cover all federal reporting entities and all zones in all
regions.

The staffing level in the implementing agencies varies in number and quality. It i s reported that
168 contractual staff have been recruited for PBS, including 103 accountants and 65 IT
specialists. These accountants will be responsible for handling LIG's accounting operation at
their respective offices. The overall staffing level at woredas i s weak because o f understaffing,


                                                  50

which i s partly due to low salary scale to attract and retain qualified staff. This i s beingaddressed
by the ongoing civil service reform supported by the Public Sector Capacity Building Project
(PSCAP).

InternalControlandInternalAuditing

MOFEDand BOFEDs each have an inspection department performing post audit activities on all
the financial transactions o f the entity, involving an assessment o f whether the budget utilization
i s in line with the intended purposes. The staff o f the inspection departments varies from region to
region. Each WOFED has an internal audit unitresponsible for the audit o fpublic funds.

The CFAA report for Ethiopia recommended that the government should consolidate the
organizational structure, redefine the work and duties o f the internal auditors to better address the
need o f the government. This has been implemented and the Inspection Department in MOFED
now acts as an internal audit regulatory body while the internal auditors in sector ministries
conduct the audit activities. The Inspection Department in MOFED, in collaboration with the
Office o f the Auditor General (OFAG), prepared user manual and provided training to internal
auditors on the manual. The internal audit units in most offices are however understaffed and
largely ineffective.

The FA notes the need to enhance the independence o f the internal auditors. Also, there i s a need
to carry out similar reforms in the Regions and Woredas. The EMCP o f the Civil Services
ReformProgram, amongst other things, focuses on further improving the internalaudit function.

For LIG and other components of the PBS, the internal audit section in each o f the regions and
woredas will perform internal audit activities on the financial transactions.

FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

The funds flow for Subcomponent l(a) and Components 2 and 3 will follow the same mechanism
for the ongoing PBS project. The funding flow mechanismfor Subcomponent l(b), the Pilot LIG,
will be through regular fiscal channels managed by MOFED and will be monitored through
existing systems established to report on public spending. The reporting already required for PBS
will be augmented, largely in terms o f level o f aggregation, in order to track capital spending at
the local level.

Subcomponent l a - Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national governments, and
Component         3 - Strengthening Governance Systems on Financial Transparency and
Accountability: The Government of Ethiopia (GOE) and Development Partners (DPs) will agree
on the annual budgets and work plans which will comprise the subprograms A and C for
implementation in the year in question. Also, the proportion o f financing between GOE and the
DPs will be established each year, and revised as needed. After the initial advance for the
remaining period for the current year, the Government will in each six months submit a
Withdrawal Application and Interim (Unaudited) Financial Reports (IFRs) for each Component,
which will report actual expenditure at the MOFED and Regional levels for Component 3 and at
the woredas and Regions for Subcomponent l(a) to the World Bank and other DPs. For
Subcomponent 1(a) (Subprogram A), moreover, the DPs would simultaneously conduct a joint
semi-annual review, including additionality, fairness and fiduciary reviews.

Upon the satisfactory conclusion o f each six months review and analysis, the Bank Task Team
Leader (TTL) will advise the Bank's loan department o f the share o f financing to be disbursed by


                                                  51

the Bank for Subcomponent l(a) and Component 3, respectively. The Bank in its own capacity
and on behalf o f other DPs for Bank-administered Multi-donor Trust Funds (MDTFs) will then
deposit their share o f financing to a Designated Pooled foreign exchange Account that GOE has
designated for that purpose inthe National Bank o f Ethiopia. GOE will then draw resources from
this account to its consolidated funds account, as required. For Subcomponent l(a) and
Component 3 the existing Treasury channels o f GOE will be used to transfer the funds from
MOFED to BOFEDs and from BOFEDS to WOFEDs.

The following chart illustrates the funds flow system for Subcomponent l(a) and Component 3.


    I                                  I             I                               I

                   IDA                                   Other Participating DPs




                     DesignatedPooledAccount A                     Based on request for funds from
                                                                 MoFED(Request for advance/FMRs)

                                        I
                                        I
                                        I
                                       +I         At the discretionofMOFED
                                        I
                                        I



                            Government Consolidated
                               FundAccount inBirr
                                                        Through GoE Treasury System,
                                                        including government resources.
                                     BOFEDs


                                                        ThroughGoE Treasury System, incl.
                                                        regional government resources
                                    WOFEDS



Component 2 - Promoting the Health Millennium Development Goals: As in the case o f the
Subcomponent l(a) and Component 3 described above, a Designated PooledAccount (DPA) will
be located in the National Bank of Ethiopia to which the DPs would contribute on the same basis
as explained above. The funds would then be drawn by the Federal Ministry o f Health (FMOH)

reports (s) received from MOH - which will report expenditure incurred on the project. Upon the
to finance project expenditure. The DPA will be replenished on the basis o f interim financial

conclusion o f each six month review, the Bank TTL will advise LOA o f the share o f financing to
be disbursed by the Bank. The Bank team and other DPs will jointly review the share o f
expenditures to be financed by IDA and the MDTFfrom time to time. The Bank will then deposit
their share of financing to the DPA in its own capacity and on behalf o f the other DPs for the
Bank-administered MDTFs.The following chart illustrates the funds flow system for Component
2.




                                                52

                         DesignatedPooledAccount B                   Based on request for funds from
                                                                    MoFED(Request for advance/FMRs)


                                      I
                                      I          At the discretionofMoH




                                 activities under
                                   Component 2




Subcomponent I@),Pilot LIG (Subprogram D): The purpose o f funds flow and reporting
arrangement for LIG i s to specifically track expenditures incurred for LIG activities in a manner
that will facilitate periodic reporting to and disbursement by the Bank. Accordingly, the following
fundflow andreportingprocess is envisaged.

The Federal Government will create a LIG Special Purpose Grant as a proclamation in the
Federal budget, under MOFED;which will include allocations by region o f LIGresources. Funds
flow will institutionally follow the treasury system: from MOFED to BOFED, and from BOFED
to WOFED. Regions will be allocated a portion o f the annual financing for LIG, which will be
deposited by MOFED into their treasury accounts. The allocation formula will follow the existing
Block Grant formula. BOFEDs will determine individual woreda allocations for LIG (as per
MOFEDguidelines) andwill informeach WOFED ofthese LIGallocations.

A Designated Account will be opened at the National Bank of Ethiopia into which the Bank, the
sole financing source for the program, shall transfer the required funds for the operation o f the
LIG. This DA shall be managed by MOFED. An initial advance to the extent o f cash flow
forecast for the first six months shall be made to the DA and subsequent replenishment shall be
made on the basis o f six months financial report received from MOFEDindicating the utilization
o f the fund. MOFED draws money from the DA and transfers it to regions based on the monthly
cash flow forecast received from the regions for the LIG capital investment.

For the Pilot LIG, disbursement to woredas will follow existing rules for disbursements from
regional to woreda level for the capital stream o f the Block Grant. BOFEDs will transfer
resources to woredas, based on the monthly LIG cash flow forecasts, to the Woreda treasury
account. N o separate LIG bank account will be opened at Woreda level, and LIG financing will
be pooled with other woreda revenues. LIG financing will be spent and accounted for following
the same rules andprocedures as for the regular woreda budget.

MOFED will prepare a guideline on the transfer, utilization, accounting and reporting o f LIG
funds at federal, regional and woreda level.


                                                  53

The fund flow arrangement for Pilot LIG i s illustratedinthe chart below:




           I     LIGDesignated Account            I
                                    I

                                        Cash transfer based on monthly cash
                                                     flow forecast




                                          through government
                                             Treasury system

                                    A                                           .I
                                    I          Cash transfer                     Fundflow
                                          through government
                                             Treasury system                     Report flow - --


Conditionsof Disbursements

Conditions o f disbursements for Subcomponent 1(a) on Promotingthe Delivery o f Basic Services
by Sub-national governments (Subprogram A), and Component 3 on Strengthening Governance
Systems on Financial Transparency and Accountability (Subprogram C) are:


   0   Submission o f annual sub-national budget for basic services comprising Subprogram A,
       satisfactory to the Association
   0   Successful completion o f semi-annual Joint Budget and Aid Review (JBAR);and
   0   Submission o f quarterly IFRs for the relevant project quarter.

Conditions for disbursement for Subcomponent l(b) on the Pilot LIG (Subprogram D) are:

   0   Finalization and Adoption o f the Operational Manual for the Pilot LIG Subcomponent,
       satisfactory to the Association; and
   0   Submission o f quarterly IFRsfor the relevant project quarter.

Condition for disbursement for Component 2 on Promoting the Health Millennium Development
Goals (Subprogram B) are:
   0    the submission o f an annual work plan satisfactory to the Association; and
       submission o f quarterly IFRs for the relevant project quarter..




                                                54

Retroactive Financing

Government has requestedretroactive financing for up to 20% o f the total amount o f Additional
Financing for all eligible expenditures that has been incurred after January 7, 2007 and up to the
date o f the grant signing. Retroactive financing i s required to fill the financing gap under
Subcomponent l(a) in EFY 1999. This gap was caused by the delay in some o f the expected
donor financing in EFY 1999, which resulted in a much higher contribution to the Federal block
grant by the Government than initially expected. Upon effectiveness, the Public Finance State
Minister's Office o f MOFED i s expected to submit actual expenditure reports for reimbursement.




                                       Amount of Additional         % of Expenditureto be Financed
    Categoryof Expenditure           FinancinginUS$ million
 SubprogramA (Subcomponent                      165                Suchpercentageo f Eligible
  1(a))                                                            Expendituresas the Associationmay
                                                                   determinefor eachEFY
 SubprogramB (Component2)                       29                 Suchpercentageof Eligible
                                                                   Expendituresas the Associationmay
                                                                   determinefor eachEFY
 SubprogramC(Component3)                         1                 Such percentageo f Eligible
                                                                   Expendituresas the Associationmay
                                                                   determinefor each EFY
  SubprogramD (Subcomponent                     20                 Suchpercentageof Eligible
  1(b))                                                            Expendituresas the Associationmay
                                                                   determinefor each EFY
              Total                             215

Financial Reporting

The computerized IBEX system enables public bodies to produce financial reports much more
easily. MOFED i s accelerating the rollout o f the IBEX system to regions where computerization
has not been introduced. As it stands now, the new chart of accounts i s capable o f recording the
financial transactions o f the LIG activities and then producing the required financial reports.

Financial regulations of regions require that Woredas should submit monthly financial statements
to regions 15 days after the end o f each month. Inpractice, there are delays insubmittingmonthly
financial reports to regions. The main cause o f delay i s the lack o f finance staff in most o f the
woredas. As a result o f this, regions are not able to close their annual accounts on a timely basis.

Currently, regions submit annual financial statements to MOFED for consolidation. For LIG,
regions are expected to provide quarterly financial reports to MOFEDfor replenishment purposes
and also for program monitoring. MOFED shall produce consolidated quarterly financial reports
to be submitted to DPs. Submission o f quarterly reports by BOFEDs and consolidation o f
financial reports at MOFED levels are additional activities as a result o f the LIG activities.
BOFEDsand MOFEDare expectedto handle this with the existing staffing arrangement for PBS.
Quarterly IFRs will be prepared and submitted quarterly to the Bank and other DPs within three
months o f the end of the quarter. The IFRs will report on actual eligible expenditure incurred at
regional and woreda levels for Components l(a) and l(b), at MOH for Component 2, and at the
federal and regional levels for Component 3. The IFR will consist o f government expenditure
reports (i.e. a report o f actual eligible expenditure incurred at regional and Woreda levels) for
Component 1, and reports on actual expenditures incurred for Components 2 and 3. The format o f


                                                   55

the government expenditure reports and IFRs have been agreed with government and will be
produced from the existing government accounting system. The annual financial statements will
adopt the same format as the quarterly reports and will therefore be a consolidation o f the
quarterly reports for each year. The audited project financial statements would include: (a) a
summary statement o f funds received from all sources o f financing; (b) a summary o f
expenditures incurred on the project appropriately classified - including actual expenditure
incurred at the woredas and regions on Components l(a) and l(b), incurred by MOH on
Component 2, and incurred at federal and regional levels on Component 3; and (c) a statement on
the project's Designated Account including opening and closing balances and the movements
(inflows and outflows).

WOFEDs will produce consolidated expenditure reports, as they do now, and will send to
BOFEDs.No separatereporting will be requiredat woreda level. BOFEDshave the responsibility
to report to MOFED (i)      on disbursement data from BOFED to WOFED for all woreda capital
expenditure, with a line for each pilot woreda, and (ii)  on expenditure data, by pilot woreda and
eligible sector, for all woreda capital expenditure. MOFED will consolidate the regional LIG
expenditure reports and submit them as part o f the IFR used for PBS. The financial guideline for
LIG shall include a guideline on the transfer and utilization o f LIG funds at the regional and
woreda level.

Auditing

According to the Ethiopian Constitution, the Office o f the Federal Auditor General (OFAG) i s
responsible for auditing all the financial transactions o f the federal government as well as
subsidies to the regions. OFAG has five regional offices. These regional offices audit revenues
(including resources from higher tiers o f government) utilized by the regions and Woredas. The
Woredas are audited using a revolving plan based on risk classifications. Each o f the regions has
regional auditor general, which i s responsible for the audit o f government financial transactions in
the region. The FA notes the Auditors-Generals were not able to perform the audits as per
planned schedule due to understaffing.

An important principle that is being applied is to strengthen the existing government external
audit arrangements through the LIGprogram while at the same time ensuring that Bank fiduciary
requirements will be met. Annual federal government audited financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank and other DPs within nine (9) months o f the end o f the fiscal year. The
audit will be carried out by OFAG. OFAG may enter into agreements with the Offices o f
Regional Auditor Generals (ORAGs) and other independent auditors to execute the Annual Audit
should it deem this to be necessary. The auditor would express an opinion on the project financial
statements; and as part o f the audit also examine and report on the FMRs/IFRs used as the basis
for disbursements, and the activities o f the Designated Account. The final TOR for the Annual
Audit of Project Financial Statements shall be agreed prior to the effectiveness o f the PBS
Additional Financing Grant.

The first audit report for the Additional Financing Project would cover the period from start o f the
project until July 7, 2008 (including expenditures covered by retroactive financing). This report
would be due no later than April 7,2009, and would be combinedwith the second audit report for
the Original Project.

Additionally, the Auditor General, through its regional offices, will cany out audit o f the woredas
and regions throughout the year on a quarterly basis and submit to DPs quarterly reports
indicating summary o f audit findings, within 3 months o f the end o f the quarter. The terms o f


                                                 56

reference for these continuous in-year audits have been revised and agreed with OFAG by the
Bank and other DPs. The first four continuous audit reports (for the 4thquarter o f EFY 1998 and
lSt, 3rdquartersofEFY1999)weresubmittedandMOFEDhasproducedanactionplan
    2nd, and
to address issues indicated in the reports. The most prevalent finding was weaknesses around
stores and fixed asset management. Other issues observed in the report include lack o f monthly
bank reconciliations, irregular payments and delay o f submittingquarterly reports to regions. The
ongoing reform undertaken by MOFED to enhance property and cash management will
adequately address these issues.

OFAG expressed qualified opinion on the EFY 1997 and 1998 federal accounts because o f
recognition o f budgeted subsidies to regions as expenditures. This does not raise any substantive
accountability issue in the project. Based on the legislative review o f the audit report, the Public
Accounts Committee o f the parliament, in conjunction with MOFED and OFAG, i s charged with
studying the experience o f sample countries in treating subsidy transfers to regional states and
forward recommendation to the parliament to address the accounting treatment o f subsidies inthe
country. The recommendation shall be implementedstarting from the EFY2002.

As o f November 15, 2007, there are no outstanding audit reports for projects implemented by
MOFEDand MOH.

Financial Covenants

    IFRswill be prepared on a quarterly basis, and will be submitted to the Bank and other DPs
    within three months after the end o f each quarter.     The IFRs will report on actual eligible
    expenditure incurred at regional and woreda levels for Component 1 (a) and l(b), at MOH for
    Component 2, and at the federal and regional levels for Component 3 ,


    Annual audited financial statements to be submitted to the Bank and other DPs within nine
    months after the end o f the government fiscal year

    OFAG shall audit, on a continuous basis, samples o f regions and woredas that have received
    funds under the program, including LIG. The government shall cause OFAG to audit these
    regions and woredas on a quarterly basis and provide the Bank with quarterly summaries, o f
    audit findings within three months o f the end o f each quarter.

SupervisionPlan

The program in the Additional Financing i s implemented by all the regions and Woredas (LIG i s
implemented by selected regions and woredas). There will be a six monthly joint review and
supervision by the Bank, government and other DPs. The FM supervisions will align with such
timeframe and focuses on randomly selected regions/woredas. The focus o f the supervision will
be to determine: (i) funds are used for the intended purposes; (ii) lapses in operation o f the
                    if                                               any
FM arrangements; (iii)further capacity strengthening measures; and (iv) implementation o f
financial covenants.




                                                57

                                                                                   SCHEDULE G

                   FEDERAL,DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE
                            PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES


           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS MANAGEMENT
                                      ARRANGEMENTS


The project will be implemented throughout the country by local government authorities in
collaborationwith respective sector specialists operating at the local and regional levels.

The environmental classification o fthe ongoingprojectremains a Category B.

I. MainSafeguardChallenges

For Component 2: Health MDG Performance Facility. Project implementation will involve
medical waste and use o f insecticides which raise safeguard issues. The physical design o f health
centers and health posts have provisions for proper disposal o f liquid and solid waste in addition
to small incinerators for burning contaminated materials used by health centers. Insecticides are
used indoor and the potential for contaminating the outside environment i s limited in scope. The
malaria control program has developed four guidelines namely: a) Guideline for Malaria Vector
Control in Ethiopia; b) Guidelines for Indoor Residual Insecticide Spraying; c) Storage and
Responsible Handling o f insecticides for malaria vector control; and d) IRS training manual.
These vector management guidelines have been distributed and are in use since 2002-2006 and
the malaria control supervisors ineach spray site has the responsibilityto ensure adherence to the
guidelines and supervisors from regional malaria control offices regularly check on the proper
implementation o f the guidelines. The guidelines are being updated to capture the recent
developments. No significant negative impact i s anticipated as long as agreed safeguard measures
are implemented.

The updated Guidelines for Malaria Vector Control and the Guidelines for Indoor Residual
Insecticide Spraying address the requirements o f Safeguard Policy OP4.09.             The updated
Guidelines have been disclosed

The new LIG Subcomponent would support construction of small-scale civil works through the
multi-sector specific purpose grant (SPG) from the Federal Government. These works would be
identified and managed by woreda and are expected to be similar in scale and scope to those
implemented in a number o f other Bank projects in Ethiopia. A PHRD funded consultancy
identified possible environmental and social safeguard requirements for these civil works. An
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) in conjunction with a Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) has been completed. The safeguard procedures will be inputs to the
Project Implementation Plan and will include a set o f innovative Technical Planning Guidelines
for about twenty types o f investments. These Guidelines will serve as a common practical tool at
the local government level to improve technical implementation o f the eligible public works
inclusive o f environmental and social considerations. The Ministry o f Health has a standard
health center and health post designs with the essential structure and facilities to allow proper
handling o f wastes and avoid environmental contamination.




                                                58

The ESMF and RPF described above are new. The parent project didnot have an ESMF/EA or an
RPF.The Project only had a healthcare waste managementplan which was disclosed inthe Info
Shop as the EA. The project did not have any involuntary resettlement issues. The new LIG
activity, however, does trigger the safeguard policy on involuntary resettlement, and for which an
RPFhas beencompleted.

11.       Potentialindirect and/or longtermimpacts

No long-term impacts are anticipated as long as the provisions for minimizing impacts are
implementedas designed and the provisions o f the guidelines are fully adhered to.

The focus on local decentralized service delivery has been recognized with subsequent challenges
in improving capacity for planning, construction and supervision at this local level. Through
synergy with several other Bank projects, the team has identifiednational level capacity building
needs for woreda and local planning through appropriate institutions and these will be soridified
over the next year. Regular supervision to ensure adherence to the safeguard guidelines help
minimize the possible adverse impacts.

111.      GovernmentMeasuresto Address SafeguardIssues

For Component 2. Measures adopted as part o f the PBS operation will continue to be
implemented. The original Amharic version o f the Government's Guidelines on the Handling
and Disposal o f Waste inHealth Facilities (September 1997) has been distributed widely to health
facilities providing such services, while an Englishtranslation has been disclosed in the World
Bank's Infoshop (February 2006). The Government has also prepared and adopted the following
guidelines: (i) Injection Safety Guidelines to reduce infections through contaminated needles; (ii)
Vector Management Plan, inresponse to the significant scaling up o f IRS activities addressed in
the ongoing PBS project as well as a prerequisite to insecticide procurement; and (iii)  Guidelines
for Malaria Vector Control, IRS and Storage o f insecticides have been introducedand inuse since
2002-2006. Regular training on IRS i s provided to ensure proper implementation o f the
guidelines to staff and supervisors. Inaddition as part o f their mandates the Drug Administration
and Control Authority and the Environmental Protection Agency supervise the management o f
chemicals and environmental contaminations, respectively

The Health facility construction designs include provisions for proper handling o f liquidand solid
wastes generated by health units and small burning facilities are installed for tahng care o f
contaminated and hazardous materials. Health facilities are provided with autoclaves to sterilize
medical instruments and other materials. An environmental sanitation expert located in health
centers takes the responsibility for supervising the implementation o f safety policy by health
facilities.

For the new LIGSubcomponent:

Main environmental and social impacts of the LIG. The main environmental and social impacts
associated with the project will result form the construction and/or rehabilitation o f small scale
investments inthe transport, waste, health and irrigation sectors. Impact and mitigation checklists
are provided inthe ESMF as a reference guide for identifying and managingthese impacts.

Works preparation, screening, review and appraisal process. The LIG Operational Manual o f
which the ESMF i s a part outlines the screening procedures, reporting systems, and
responsibilities to be adopted by the MOFED during LIG implementation. The tools and


                                                59

mechanisms provided include: (i)steps to be taken for screening subprojects; (ii) of    terms
reference for an annual environmental and social audit o f the LIG; (iii)   Technical Planning
Guidelines on the environmental and social impact o f potential sub-projects; (iv) compliance
mechanisms; (v) training for staff o f Pilot LIG woredas who have adopted new procurement
codes based on the model law preparedby the Federal Government, inapplication o f this law and
associated standard bidding documents; and (v) descriptions o f roles, accompanied by terms o f
reference.

Mitigation plans. As part o f the assessmentprocess, the Technical Planning Guidelines have been
prepared for over two dozen subproject types. These will assist local planners, officials and
contractors implement appropriate mitigation measures for specific subprojects. If identified as a
requirement o f the sub-project through the screening process, a Resettlement Action Plan, will
also be prepared.

Legislative framework. The key environmental policies exist which provide the overarching
framework for environmental management include: the Constitution of Ethiopia, the
Environmental Policy o f Ethiopia, and the National Conservation Strategy. A number o f
proclamations and supporting regulations are also applicable:: ProclamationNo.295/2002 for the
establishment o f EnvironmentalProtection Organs; ProclamationNo.299/2002 for Environmental
Impact Assessment; Proclamation No.300/2002 for Environmental Pollution Control; and
ProclamationNo. 455/2005 on expropriation and compensation.

IV.     Key Stakeholders

Local governments and communities are the major stakeholders. The civil works funded under
the LIG Subcomponent are vetted through the local government planning process that engages in
direct community participation for identifying potential projects. Local woreda authorities,
through sector specialists scope the potential projects and include them in annual workplan
requests. Disclosure o f the ESMF and RPF will be in country, via notices inthe media regarding
the availability o f these documents at the country Infoshop. As o f August 20, 2007, the
Government has releasedthese documents to the Bank for general disclosure.




                                               60

                                                                                      SCHEDULEH

                   FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE
                             PROTECTIONOF BASIC SERVICES


                  MONITORING      &EVALUATIONFRAMEWORK PILOTLIG   FOR

The ultimate objective of the Government is to introduce a performance-based grant for capital
expenditure at the local level. In order to better understand the constraints to improving and
increasing capital investment at that level and to effectively calibrate the criteria to be used for
evaluating performance, a pilot phase o f LIG would first be introduced. The main objectives o f
the pilot phase are therefore about learning. The pilot aims to (i) better understand constraints to
undertaking scaled-up capital investment at the local level, and (ii)roll-out and test recently
developed national standards for planning and budgeting, procurement, and environmental
screening.

Inorder to achieve these objectives therefore it is important that there is a clear framework for
monitoring and evaluating the results o f the pilot. The responsibility o f this task will be housed in
the unit that will be overseeing overall PBS implementation, the Macroeconomic Department o f
MOFED, which will have staff to focus on monitoring implementation o f this particular
component. Monitoring o f implementationwill take two forms:

     Semi-annual data on capital disbursements and capital expenditure by LIG pilot woredas and
     by sector will be generated by the Government's reporting system and will give a basic
     overview regarding progress in implementation. This data will be presented woreda by
     woreda as part o f the Pilot. The expenditure reports will be prepared on a quarterly basis for
     those pilot woredas that will be visited for implementationreviews (see below) inthe relevant
     quarter.

     Quarterly implementation reviews will visit a selection o f pilot woredas to monitor progress
     and to identify bottlenecks inimplementation, ifany. These missions will comprise staff from
     MOFED and BOFEDs and where appropriate from the relevant zonal offices. If problems
     have been identified an action plan to address these issues will be developed assigning
     responsibilityto the relevant office.

Beyond this, the aim o f the M&E system i s to gain detailed informationregarding the investment
process and the quality o f the outputs achieved within each pilot woreda. Additionally the M&E
system will aim to provide information as to how initial conditions in terms o f capacity and
structural factors affect these. The following studies will therefore be implemented, to be
financed out o f the ongoing PHRD grant and Component 3 o fthe PBS:

(i)Capacity survey: Woredas will have been chosen to participate in the pilot through a
stratified random sampling process in order to ensure that woredas with a diversity o f structural
factors are included. The aim o f the capacity survey i s to develop a detailed understanding o f the
initial capacity conditions within each woredas before the implementation o f the LIG pilot starts.
The ultimate purpose will be to see how important different initial conditions and capacities are in
successful implementation o f capital investments. It will focus on six areas including (i)     human
resources, (ii)management systems (iii)planning, (iv) financial management, (v) material
capacity, and (vi) information and communication. Quantitative as well as qualitative indicators


                                                   61

will be used in each area to allow comparison and ranlung o f woredas across categories. This
survey will be financed through the PHRD Grant

(ii)InvestmentProcessReview:Thereviewwill assesswhether nationalsystems were applied
and the impact this had on the overall process. It will focus on (i)      planning and budgeting, (ii)
procurement, and (iii) environmental screening. The key criteria will be (i)     whether mechanisms
for citizen participation led to credible inputs from the citizenry, and (ii)      how long various
systems took to use and whether they were understood and practical. This review will also assess
whether the manuals and the training provided under the pilot were effective in adding to the
capacity o f the woreda inthis area.

(iii)Technical OutputAssessment:Thiswillfocus onanassessmentofthetechnicalqualityof
infrastructure built in the woreda, both during the Pilot and preceding it. The key focus i s to
determine whether in a given sector the infrastructure built meets the required standards, and if
not, what was the cause o f sub-standard outputs (i.e. design, procurement, construction, materials
used etc.).

The exact division of tasks across the Investment Process Review and the Technical Output
Assessment has not yet been determined. The focus will be to ensure that the results can be
usefully integrated across all studies to gain a rich picture o f the entire investment process within
a woreda and determine which key elements affect outcomes.

(iv) Ex-post Procurement Review: Rather than oversee the tendering o f individual investments,
an ex-post procurement review will assess procurement from a fiduciary perspective. It would be
conducted on a sample basis and would identify areas, if any, where significant deviations from
national procurement standards had emerged and suggest suitable remedial actions.

Additional to the above, the Financial Accountability and Transparency Perception Survey
(FTAPS) being implemented under Component 3 o f the PBS, will also provide a longer-term
mechanism to assess how effectively accountability i s working in terms o f the responsiveness o f
local-planning processes to citizen's priorities and citizen's perceptions o f whether or not they are
adequately consulted by their local authorities.




                                                  62

                                                                                    SCHEDULEI



                  FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE
                            PROTECTIONOFBASICSERVICES


                     ECONOMIC AND FISCALANALYSIS FORTHE
                        PILOTLOCALINVESTMENT GRANT (LIG)

1. PoliticalandEconomicBackground

1. Political decentralization in Ethiopia is now well advanced and fiscal decentralization is
following quickly. Figure 1 illustrates the sharp increase in Federal block grant transfers to
regions from 5.5 billion Birr in EFY 1997 up to 13.6 billion Birr budgeted for EFY 2000.
Furthermore, the Government's Medium Term Expenditure and Finance Framework indicates
that an additional4 billion Birr will be budgeted for the Block Grant per year untilEFY2002.

2. As part o f the process o f political and fiscal decentralization, the mandates o f regions and
woredas (districts) have increased significantly. Woredas are now responsible for a large
proportion of basic service delivery. In the education sector, woredas have the mandate to
establish and manage kindergartens and primary schools. In some regions, construction and
management of first cycle secondary schools also falls under the jurisdiction o f woredas. With
regard to the health sector, woredas have the mandate to establish and manage health posts,
clinics and health centers. Furthermore, all woredas have the mandate to construct, maintain and
manage rural roads (community/RRlO roads). Inthe water sector, woredas in almost all regions
have the mandate to develop and operate springs, hand-pump wells, water supply lines, water and
soil conservation schemes, ponds, water harvesting schemes and small-scale irrigation schemes.
Inrelation to agriculture,all woredas have the mandate to operate environmental rehabilitation
programs, operate and manage veterinary clinics and farmers' training centers, multiplyimproved
seeds and species of animals and carry out small-scale irrigation schemes by diverting rivers,
floods and usingthe waters from ponds, springs and hand-pump wells.

3. In spite o f the significant increase in the mandates o f woredas to undertake capital
investment, Figure 2 indicates that capital expenditure at the woreda level i s still greatly
constrained. The share o f capital spending has remained roughly constant over the past two years
at the Regional Bureau level. But, capital expenditure in woredas decreased in relative and
absolute terms since EFY 1997 due to the pressure o frecurrent costs, inparticular salaries.




                                                63

Figure 1: Federal Block Grant Transfers to Regions                     Figure 2: Expenditure Shares at Regional Level
    (Note: There are no transfers to Addis Ababa)                             (all regions excluding Addis Ababa)

                                                                         5,000                                             390

                                                                         4,000



 f 15,000 1-                                                          L
                                                                      $  3,000           465
                                                                      -
                                                                      p
                                                                      C

                                                                      -  2,000


                                                                         1,000


                                                                             0
                                                                                               Regional Woredas RegionalIWoredas
                                                                                                Bureau          Bureau 1
             EFY 1997 EFY 1998  EFY 1999 EFY2000 EFYZ001 EFYZOOZ
              Actuai   Actual    Budget  Budget   Pian    Plan                      EFY97            EFY98            EFY99

CITotal Federal Block Grant to Regions                               HSalary 0 Operational Expenses   Capital




B. Analysis ofWoreda CapitalBudget Shares andExecutionRates"
4. In EFY97, rural woredas" in Oromiya and SNNPR planned to spend 0% to 36% o f their
treasury budget (capital and recurrent) on capital investment (see Figure 3). In both regions
combined, the median for rural woredas was 9%. Overall, 87% o f the rural woredas in SNNPR
and Oromiya budgeted less than 20% of their treasury budget on capital.

Figure 3: Oromiyaand SNNPR Capital Budget (Treasury Only) as Share of Total Expenditurein RuralWoredas, EFY97
 --                                     -
                                                    ~~




                                         ____           Share of Capital Budget in %



5. Apart from large differences across woredas, there are also significant differences across
regions with regard to woredas' capital budget shares in EFY97. Figures 4 and 5 illustrate the
larger variance across woredas - though with a higher median - in SNNPR as compared to
Oromiya.




I'T h i s section analyses variations across woredas interms of budget shares and executionrates for the capital budget
  for the two regions for which detailed information, by woreda, is available.
  The sample size is 299 rural woredas in Orormya (94) and SNNF'R (105) for EFY97.



                                                                 64

    Figure 4: Oromiya Capital Budget (TreasuryOnly)
                      -                                      Figure 5: SNNPR   - Capital Budget (TreasuryOnly)
  as Share of Total Expenditurein RuralWoredas, EFY97      as Share of Total Expenditure in Rural Woredas, EFY97
                                                                 ...    .....                 .....        . ......
                                                                                                                    I




              I#edlanl Shareof Capital Budget In K                              Share of Capital Budget In %




6. In terms o f execution rates for capital budgets from treasury sources across rural woredas in
Oromiya for EFY97, more than half o f all rural woredas performed well with capital budget
execution rates o f close to or equal to 100%. The median execution rate i s 98%. Moreover, 80%
o f all rural woredas were able to materialize 90% to 100% o f their capital budget from treasury
sources. The main factor driving these high levels o f expenditure, however, are the extremely
small amounts o f capital expenditure. Those woredas that show execution rates o f 100% have a
median capital expenditure o f 460,998 Birr,which equaled approximatelyUS$ 53,00013.

2. Rationalefor LIGPilotandLIGNationalProgram

7. The analysis above shows that woreda capital budgets are very small and have decreased over
time due to pressure from salary expenditure. Even though the Federal block grant to regions i s
expected to increase by 4 billion Birr per year untilEFY 2002, interviews with the regions during
the PBS Midterm Review and the PBS Additional Financing Mission suggest that the recurrent
needs are still much larger than the proposed increase in block grants. Furthermore, it was noted
by regional representatives that the quality o f capital investments, both in terms o f the processes
by which projects are identified, selected and implementedas well as the outcomes, varies across
woredas and sectors and benefits are often not sustained due to the lack o f sufficient budgeting o f
operational and maintenance expenses (O&M).

8.  In light o f these findings, the National LIG program intends (i) increase the quality and
                                                                                 to
quantity o f capital investment at the woreda level; (ii)         to strengthen government systems and
application o f national standards; (iii)to create an incentive mechanism through performance
based conditions o f access for LIG funds; and hence (iv) to improve basic service delivery at the
local level.

9. Before starting such a national performance based program, it i s necessary to understand the
current constraints that woredas face, be they related to initial conditions, capacity, or other
factors, in order to set access thresholds accordingly. The LIG Pilot (Subcomponent l(b) under
the PBS Additional Financing) aims (i) test recently developed national standards (planning
                                                   to
and budgeting, procurement, technical guidelines, etc); (ii)           to better understand constraints o f
capital investment at the local level; and (iii)      to learn from experience in Pilot woredas to help
design the National LIG.




l3The exchange rate inEFY97 was US$1= ETB 8.65



                                                      65

3.       Simulations ofthe Size of the LIGPilot

10. Government has decided that those regions are eligible to participate in the pilot program
that have implementedthe national accounting and procurement reforms under the Government's
Expenditure Management and Control Program.                   These reforms are deemed important for
effective fiduciary control o f the program at local and regional level. The five regions that have
implementedboth o f these reforms to date are Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz, Oromiya, S M R ,
and Tigray. For the pilot, rural woredas will be selected on a random basis in order to maximize
the learning opportunities from the pilot program. In order to ensure an appropriate sample the
selection process will ensure that key factors that might affect capital investment.are represented
by woredas in the sample. These include population (large and small), remoteness (remote and
non-remote), and capital investment experience (experience and limited experience). A random
samplingprocedure will be employedusingthese criteria for stratification.

11. LIG grants to woredas will be based on the principle that the grants should be equal in
relative terms (relative to the woreda treasury budget). Based on the low present levels o f capital
spending from treasury funds and estimates o f the absorption rate o f additional funding it has
been agreed that LIG grants equal to 30% o f the EFY 2000 treasury budget will be made to pilot
woredas. Table 1 below presents the indicative size o f an annual LIG grant for woredas selected
for the Pilot by simulating a transfer equivalent to this percentage for small, medium, and large
woredas in the four main decentralizing regi~ns'~.        It suggests that while the ratio o fthe LIGgrant
to the budget would be constant, the variation in the absolute value o f the grant would vary
significantly. For the two years o f the LIG pilot, the smallest allocation, for small woredas in
SNNPR, would be around US$321,000, while the largest allocationwould be inlarge woredas in
Tigray at aroundUS$ 863,000.




14No detailedbudget informationby woreda was available at the time of this analysis for Benishangul-Gumuz.



                                                     66

                             Table 1: SimulatedLIGGrantsinUS%,
         BasedonLIGGrants representing30% of EFY99Total Treasury Budgets


                                                  EFYOO Budget          30% Grant
                                                     (in US$)            (in US$)
                              Small"                      1,583533            475,060
              Amhara          Medium"                    2,028,475            608,542
                              ~ a r g e ~ )              2,536,741            761,022
                              Small''                      759,140            227,742
              Oromiya         Medium"                    1,086,918            326,075
                              ~ a r g e ~ )              1,519,328            455,798
                              Small')                      714,456            214,337
              SNNPR           Medium')                   1,068,s 15           320,555
                              ~ a r g e ~ )              1,704,064            511,219
                              Small')                    1,375,508            412,652
              Tigray          Medium"                     1,730762            519,229
                              ~ a r g e ~ )              2,228,351            668,505




12. Table 2 indicates the estimated LIG allocation for each region by applying the block grant
formula for the eligible regions to the total LIG Pilot budget o f US$20 million. By using the
simulation inTable 1above, we then estimate the number o f woredas that could likely participate
inthe pilot, by region. The total number of woredas is around 50. Actual allocations to woredas
will be drivenby the stratified random samplingprocedure mentionedabove, which will therefore
determine the final number o f woredas to participate inthe pilot, and their regional distribution.


              Table 2: PossibleNumber of LIGPilotWoredasinFive Regions


                             inUS$           EstimatedLIG        No Woredas
                                               Allocations       MediumSize
                    Tigray                          1,496,233                 2
                    Amhara                          5.696.747                 9
                    Oromiya                         7,877,740  I             24




                                                67

                                                                         SCHEDULEJ

                  FEDERALDEMOCRATIC REPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                           ADDITIONAL FINANCING FORTHE
                            PROTECTIONOF BASICSERVICES



                                                                (committed
                                                                 Balance     Additional
          Intervention           PBS 2005-07    ProcuredKJnder               Financing
                                 Commitments     Procurement    under PBS)     2008
Acceleratingand sustainingmalariacontrol(Commodities)
ITNs                                20,383,093        7,922,778   12,460,315  8,000,000
ACT                                  4,057,836        2,589,367    1,468,469
Insecticides(IRS)                       500,000               0      500,000 2,090,000-
Spray Pumps                             250,000               0     250,000
Diagnostics Laboratory Equipment        850,000               0      850,000  1,200,000
Sub-total                           26,040,929       10,512,144   15,528,785 11,290,000
ReducingInfant Mortality throughvaccines
Vaccines                              5,000,000       2,901,582   2,098,4 18  1,490,000
Cold Chain Equipment                 3,000,000        3,239,112            0          0
Sub-total                            8,000,000        6,140,694   2,098,418   1,490,000
Primary healthservice delivery
Essentialdrugs                        8,500,000               0    8,500,000          0
Medical Equipment to HPs HCs          5,900,000         945,880   4,954,120   8,200,000
Revolving Drug Fund                           0               0            0
Sub-total                            14,400,000         945,880   13,454,120  8,200,000
FamilyPlanning                                                                   * .
Contraceptives                       11,595,071      11,495,835       99,236  5,540,000
Sub-total                            11,595,071      11,495,835       99,236  5,540,000

Audio visual equipment                  964,000               0      964,000          0
Transport                             1,500,000               0    1,500,000          0
Sub-total                            2,464,000                0   2,464,000           0

Monitoring & Evaluation                 820,000               0      820,000
Training                                615,000               0     615,000
CapacityBuilding                       220,000                0     220,000
Sub-total                            1,655,000                0   1,655,000   1,570,000




                                             68

                                                                                                                                                SCHEDULE K

                                      FEDERALDEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                                                  PROTECTIONOF BASIC SERVICES

                                                            ETHlOPIAAT A GLANCE



                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                      Sub-
Key D e v e l o p m e n t I n d l c a t o r s                                     Saharan           LOW
                                                                    Ethiopia         Africa      income            A i 0 diatrlbution, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                                          Male              Female

Population. mid-year (millions)                                         72.7            770       2,403
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                         1,140         24,265      29,215            60.64
Population growth (%)                                                    2.0            2.3          1.8
Urban population (% of total population)                                                                           50.54
                                                                          15             36           30           40.44

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                        12.9            646        1,562           30.34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                       180            842          650           20-24

GNi per capita (PPP, international $)                                  1,190         2,031         2,698           10.14
                                                                                                                     0.4
GDP growth (%)                                                           9.0            5.6          6.0                20        10       0       10       20
GDP per capita growth (%)                                                6.9            3.2          6.1                                DelCe"l

(moot recent eotlmate, 2000-2006)
                                                                                                                 I
Poverty headcount ratio at $1 a day (PPP. %)                                             41
Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP. %)                              76             72                       Under4 mortality rat8 (per 1,000)
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                          43             47           59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                  80             96           75
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                38             29                        250


Adult literacy. male (% of ages 15 and older)                             50             69           72
Adult literacy. female (% of ages 15 and older)                           23             50           50
Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                           88             96          106
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)                         72             66           96

Access to an improved water source (% of population)                      22             56           75
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                               37           38                      1000   1005   2000   2005


                                                                                                                        OElhiopia       OSub-Saharan Africa


N e t A i d Flows                                           1980       I990           2000          2006
                                                                                                                 lZO
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                      211      1,009            666        1,937          Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2005):
  United States                                                19         50            130          625
  Italy                                                         7        169             26           87
  United Kingdom                                                4         35             11           75

Aid (% of GNi)                                                3.4        8.4            8.7         17.1
Aid per capita (US$)                                            6         20             11           27


L o n g - T e r m E c o n o m i c T r e n d s
                                                                                                                                    03         00
Consumer prices (annual % change)                            12 5        5.2            6.2         12 3
GDP implicit deflator (annual Oh change)                      4.4        4 0            6.0          7 4              -GDP              -      GDP percapila

Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)                 2 1        2 1            8.1          8.7
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                             131        151            100           79
                                                                                                                     1910-90     1990-2000      2000-06
                                                                                                                           (average annual growth %J
Population. mid-year (miliions)                              37 7       51.2           64.3         72.7                   3 1           2.3         2 1
GDP (US$ millions)                                        7,289      12.083          7,903        13,315                  2.0            3 5         5 7
                                                                         (% of GDPJ
Agriculture                                                 54.2        56.3           47.4         48.1                  0.5           2.2          5.0
Industry                                                    12.1        12.4           12.6         12.6                  3.4            3.8         7.0
  Manufacturing                                                                         5.7          4.7                  3.1            3.8         4.4
Services                                                    23.8        31.3           39.8         39.3                  3.5           4.5          5.7

Household final consumption expenditure                     80.0        77 2           74.7         93.7                  1.0           3.1          6 3
General gov't final consumption expenditure                   9.8       13.2           18.5         12.4                  4.0           9.5         -0.5
Gross capital formation                                     14.5        12.9           19.2         19.8                  4.0           2.3          4 3

Exports of goods and sewices                                  7.6        5.6           12.5         15.8                  3.2           7.1         13.9
Imports of goods and services                               119          8.8          24.8          41.7                  3.2           5 8         13 0
Gross savings                                               10 8        11.9           14.9          9.3

Note Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are not available.
a. Aid data are for 2005

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                                   69

                                                                                                                                                            SCHEDULEK

                                        FEDERALDEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA
                                                        ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFORTHE
                                                         PROTECTION OF BASICSERVICES

                                                                   ETHIOPIA AT A GLANCE



B a l a n c e o f P a y m e n t s a n d T r a d e                 2000        2006
                                                                                              Governance indlcalorr, 2000 and 2006
(US$ millionsi
Total merchandise exports (fob)                                     466       1,001
Total merchandise imports (ctf)                                   1,611       4,594             Voice and aoCOunlablllly
Net trade in goods and servlces                                    -976      .3,444                       POItical Ilabil ty
Current account balance                                            -335      .1,367
   as a % of GDP                                                    4 2       .10.4                     Regulatory quality


Workers' remittances and                                                                                        Rula oftaw

   compensation of employees (receipts)                              53         174                  controi O f co11"pllo"

Reserves, including gold                                            349       1.080

C e n t r a l G o v e r n m e n t F i n a n c e                                                        0 2 0 0 6                     Countryr p@rcenlllerank (0 100)
                                                                                                       0 2 0 0 0                         hCh.,  I*,".. b.11.rnlh~.
                                                                                                                                                   imph

(% ofGDP)
Current revenue (including grants)                                 16.2         19.1
   Tax revenue                                                       9.9        12.2
Current expenditure                                                21 3         13.2
                                                                                           T e c h n o l o g y a n d I n f r a s t c u c t u r a                2000      2005
Overall surplusldeficit                                             -9.7        -6.3
                                                                                           Paved roads (% oftolal)                                               12 0     19.1
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                              Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                                                     35         subscribers (per 1,000 people)
   Corporate                                                                      30       High technologyexports
                                                                                             (% of manufactured exports)                                          0 1      0.2
E x t e r n a l D e b t a n d R e s o u r c e F l o w s
                                                                                           E n v i r o n m e n t
(US$ rniilionsi
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              5,463      6,176         Agricultural land (% of land area)                                      31       32
Total debt service                                                  137         I 7 2      Forest area (% of land area)
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                          2.264       1,363        Nationally protected areas (% of land area)

Total debt (% of GDP)                                              69.4        54.3        Freshwater resources per capita (cu meters)                                   1 7 1 2
Total debt service (YOof exports)                                  13.1         6.3        Freshwater withdrawal (% of internal resources)                        4 6

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                             135         265        CO2 emissions per capita (mt)                                         0 0 9    0 I 1
Portfolio equity (net Inflows)                                         0           0
                                                                                           GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                                                                equivalent)                       2 6      2 8
  lComporltion o f total external debt. 2005                                                 (2000 PPP Iper kg of          0 1 1


                                                                                           Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)                           291      303




                                                                                           (US$ mrllionsJ

                                                                                           iBRD
                                                                                             Total debt outstanding and disbursed                                   0        0
                                                                                             Disbursements                                                          0        0
                                                                                             Principal repayments                                                   0        0
                                                                                             interest payments                                                       0       0

                                                                                           IDA
                                                                                             Total debt Outstanding and disbursed                              1,779    3,359
                                                                                             Disbursements                                                        137      162
P r i v a t e S e c t o r D e v e l o p m e n t                   2000        2006          Total debt service                                                     34       72

Time required to start a business (days)                                          16       IFC (fiscal yearl
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)                        -        45.9         Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio                               0        0
Time required lo register property (days)                                         43           of which IFC own account                                             0        0
                                                                                             Disbursements for IFC own account                                      0        0
Ranked as a major constraint to business                                                     Portfolio sales, prepayments and
   (% of managers surveyed who agreed)                                                         repayments for iFC own account                                       0        0
     Tax rates                                                     72.2
     Tax administration                                            58.2                    MlGA
                                                                                            Gross exposure
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)                                                      New guarantees
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)


Note' Figures m italics are for years other than those specified 2006 data are preliminary.
..indicates data are not available.         -                                                                                                                          6il6107
                                               indicates observation 1s not applicable.

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                                       70

             32E                                                36E                                                                                         40E                                42E                               44E

                                                                                                      ERITREA
                                                                                                      ERITREA                                                                                                                                                          ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                              Keren
                                                                                                                                              Keren                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                e                                REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REP
                                                                                                                                                                                                  d                                OFOF                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   ETHIOPIA                              To
                                                         To                                                                                         AdigratAdigrat                                    S                      YEMENYEMEN                                            REGION CAPITALS
                                                        Gedaref
                                                        Gedaref                        HumeraHumera
          14N                                                                                        Tekeze                   AxumAxum                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                            T I G R AY
                                                                                                                                                          MekeleMekele                                                                                                             RIVERS
                                                                                                                             Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                             Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                             Terara (4620 m)
                                                                                                                              erara (4620 m)                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                            Atbara                                                                                D e n a k i l                         e                                14N
                                                                                                                                                                                                             a



                                                                                                                                                                                D                                                                                                  RAILROADS

                                                                                                     Gonder
                                                                                                     Gonder
                                                                                                     A M H A R A                                                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                 Lake                                                                             A FA R
                                                                 Dinder                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 Tana
          12N                                                                                                   DebraDebra                                                                                                              12N
                                                                                                                 Tabor
                                                                                                                  abor                       Weldiya
                                                                                                                                              eldiya                             esert                DJIBDJIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                      DJIBOUTI
                                                                                 Bahir Dar
                                                                                 Bahir Dar                 Blue                                                                  AsayitaAsayita                                                                            46E                        48E
                                                    Aba                                                        Nile                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                 Dese
                                                                                                                                                 Dese                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G u     l f    o    f     A       d
                                                     y
                    SUDANSUDAN
                                          BENSHANGULBENSHANGUL
                                          AsosaAsosa                       Hanger                     Debre
                                                                                                      Debre
                                                                                                      Markos
                                                                                                      Markos                                                          Awash
                                                                                                                   E t h i o p i a n
          10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10N
                                                                     Didesa                                          P l a t e a u                                                 DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                                                   DIRE DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dire Dawa
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dire Dawa                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                     HarerHarer                    HargeysaHargeysa

                                                       GimbiGimbi             NekemteNekemte       ADDIS ABABA
                                                                                                   ADDIS ABABA                       ADDISADDIS                                      HARARIHARARI              Jijiga
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jijiga
                                                                                                                                     ABABAABABA                       Aw
                                                                                                                                                                      Awash                                                                                                           SOMALIASOMALIA

                                                                                                                                                  NazretNazret
                                Baro                                                                          Welkite
                                                                                                               elkite                                                                  Ramis                                                Aw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Aware
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Degeh Bur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Degeh Bur
                                    GambelaGambela        GoreGore                                                                                  O R O M I YA
          8N             G A M B E L A                                                                                                            y                                                                                                                                   DomoDomo               8N
                                                                                                                                 Asela
                                                                                                                                 Asela           e
                               Akobo                                                   JimaJima                HosainaHosaina                 l l             Shebele

                                                                             BongaBonga                                                      a     Wabe                                                                                                O g a d e n
                                                                                                                                ShashemeneShashemene
                                                                                                                                     V                                                                                      S O M A L I
                                                                                                   SodoSodo   Aw
                                                                                                              Awasa                                                Goba
                                                                                                                                                                   Goba
                                                                                                                                t               DodolaDodola                                                                                                       Warder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      arder
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kebri Dehar
                                                  SOUTHERN NATIONS,
                                                  SOUTHERN NATIONS,                                           Wendo
                                                                                                                endo           f
                                                                                                                              i                                                                        ImiImi
                                                        NATIONALITES
                                                        NATIONALITES                                                         R

          6N                                            AND PEOPLES
                                                         AND PEOPLES                                                                                                                 Wabe Gestro
                                                                                                                    t                                                                                            Wabe                                                                                         6N
                                                                                                                   a                                                                                                       Shebele
                0  50  100 150 200 Kilometers                                                                   r e                                             Genale
                                                                                                                                              NegeleNegele
                0    50     100     150 Miles                                                                  G                                                                                                                                               FerferTo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                    Yavello
                                                                                                                     avello                                 Dawa                                                                                                 MogadishuMogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                                                     DoloDolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                     OdoOdo                                                                                                       IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                       Lake                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
          4N                                                                                                                MegaMega
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                   4N     33405
JUNE                                              Turkana                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                          INDIAN

    2007         UGANDAUGANDA                                                    KENYAKENY                                                    MoyaleMoyale
                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            To                                                                                                                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
             32E              34E                              36E                                         38E             To
                                                                                                                               To                                          Wa
                                                                                                                                                                           Wajir                                                                                                                                           R1
                                                                                                                             MarsabitMarsabit                 40E                                42E  MogadishuMogadishu           44E                                  46E                        48E

