Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H224 - ET 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Protection of Basic Services Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 29, 2006  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H224 - ET 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated May 29, 2006, between the FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (
“the Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“the Association”).  The Recipient and the 
Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred forty-nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 149,600,000) (
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the
 
Dollar.   
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Part 1 of the Project through 
MOFED, Part 2 of the Project through MOH, and Part 3 of the Project through 
MOFED and MCB in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – REMEDIES 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out.  
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has provided to the Association and Pooled Funding A 
Partners monthly data on Block Grant transfers from the Federal 
Government to all Regions up to and including February 2006, and from 
the Regions of Amhara, Oromia, Southern Nations Nationalities and 
Peoples, and Tigray to their respective Local Authorities on a local 
government-by-local government basis, up to and including January 
2006;
 
(b) 
The Recipient has provided to the Association and Pooled Funding A 
Partners the Food Secur
ity Program’s annual physical and financial 
report for EFY97 and quarterly transfer data for the first three quarters of 
EFY98;  
(c) 
The Recipient has prepared terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association for the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability 
(PEFA) Assessment; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
The Recipient has caused the publication of: (i) EFY98 federal budget 
data as per the Negarit Gazette and EFY98 regional budget data as per 
the JBAR format via the MOFED web-site; and (ii) approved regional 
budgets for EFY98 with summarized sectoral information in local 
newspapers, where they are available, and gazettes; 
(e) 
The Recipient has caused MOFED to issue a financial directive to all 
federal budgetary institutions and a prototype to all BOFEDs, regarding 
the closure of accounts at the end of each Ethiopian Fiscal Year 
commencing with EFY98; and 
(f) 
The Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of finance 
and economic development. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
 
P. O. Box 1905 
 
Addis Ababa 
 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 2114 
  251-11551355 
 2115 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By:  /s/  Sufian Ahmed 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:  /s/  Ishac Diwan 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to protect the delivery of basic services by  
Sub-national Governments while promoting and deepening transparency and 
accountability in service delivery.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:
Promoting the Delivery of Basic Services by Sub-national 
Governments
Promoting the delivery of basic services by Regional Governments and Local 
Authorities through the implementation of Subprogram A for core basic services which 
include education, health, water supply and sanitation, agriculture and natural resources. 
Part 2:
Promoting the Health Millennium Development Goals
Carrying out of Subprogram B by contributing funds to a Health Millennium 
Development Goals Performance Facility to finance: 
 
(i) 
critical inputs for primary health service delivery such as vaccines, 
contraceptives, long-lasting insecticide-treated mosquito nets, malaria 
drugs, insecticides, spray pumps and equipment; 
 
(ii) 
capacity building activities, including investment in human resources, 
monitoring and evaluation, as well as operational research and other 
activities at the MOH level; and  
(iii) 
strengthening of procurement and logistics
,
including provision of 
training and technical assistance to selected staff in MOH on 
international procurement,
 
establishment of a Central Medical Store, and 
strengthening of the national distribution system. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Part 3:
Strengthening Government Systems on Financial Transparency and 
Accountability
Carrying out of Subprogram C including:   
(i) 
enhancing transparency around public budget procedures (preparation, 
expenditure and audits) and improving public disclosure of budget 
information at the Regional and Local Authorities levels;  
(ii) fostering 
citizens’ understanding of, and engagement with, public budget 
processes; 
(iii) 
improving public disclosure by service facilities such as schools and 
health clinics of their annual budgets, resource levels (e.g. staffing 
allocations), agreed performance standards and indicators established at 
the Woreda and/or Regional level; 
(iv) 
monitoring and evaluation activities to assess progress made against the 
core objectives, such as carrying out financial transparency and 
accountability perception surveys, reviews and assessments; and  
(v) 
financing the services of accountants and IT personnel to be hired by 
MOFED to enhance its capacity, provision of technical assistance to the 
Regions and Local Authorities, building capacity in OFAG, and 
provision of goods for both MOFED and OFAG. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. General
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual throughout the period of implementation.  
2. 
The Recipient shall sign MOU A and MOU B with the Association and, 
respectively, Pooled Funding A Partners and Pooled Funding B Partners by 
October 31, 2006. 
B. 
Subprograms A and C
1. 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
 
(a) 
At the federal level, the Recipient shall cause MOFED to be responsible for 
coordination, monitoring and oversight of the implementation of Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.  For this purpose, 
MOFED shall liaise with Pooled Funding A Partners 
as required.  MOFED’s 
primary responsibilities shall include:  
(i) 
making timely transfers of Subprogram A and C resources to 
Regions and Local Authorities as per agreed fiscal transfer 
formulae, ensuring effective financial management and 
compliance with fiduciary requirements; 
(ii) 
managing the implementation of various technical assistance and 
systems development activities to ensure transparent budget 
execution, enhanced fiscal reporting, and improved monitoring 
of key results for the delivery of basic services;  
(iii) 
improving financial transparency and social accountability for 
public expenditures and basic services delivery at regional, local 
and service facility levels; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iv) 
coordinating with the Key Line Ministries, their counterpart 
Regional sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices, as necessary, 
for the implementation of Parts 1 and 3 of the Project;  
(v) 
ensuring that Regional sector bureaus and Woreda sector offices 
disseminate service facility related information;  
(vi) 
ensuring that councils at Regional and Local Authority levels
 
review and approve work plans and budgets in a timely manner; 
and 
(vii) 
hiring, no later than October 31, 2006, at least fifty additional 
accountants, with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, to enhance its financial management capacity and 
provide technical assistance to Regional Governments and Local 
Authorities.  
(b) 
At the regional level, the Recipient shall cause 
Bureau of Finance and Economic 
Development 
to:  
(i) 
transfer Subprogram A and C resources to Local Authorities 
based on agreed plans for delivery of basic services;  
(ii) 
coordinate Project implementation and launch start-up activities;  
(iii) 
mobilize technical assistance from other line agencies as may be 
required;  
(iv) 
review and consolidate progress reports from Local Authorities, 
and provide feedback, as necessary; and 
(v) 
monitor and evaluate overall performance and resource use.  
(c) 
At the local level, the Recipient shall cause 
Woreda Offices of Finance and 
Economic Development 
and
 Urban Administration Offices of Finance 
to be 
responsible for managing and coordinating the day-to-day implementation of 
Project activities.  WOFEDs and UAOFs shall undertake operational tasks such 
as planning, supervision, financial management, monitoring and evaluation.   
 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
Ministry of Capacity Building
 
The Recipient shall cause the MCB at the federal level and bureaus at 
regional and local levels to collaborate closely with MOFED in the overall 
coordination and implementation of Part 3 of the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, ensuring appropriate focus on the capacity building aspects 
of planned interventions, fostering proper alignment with national capacity 
building efforts, and building on the experience of related ongoing programs and 
interventions.  
C. Subprogram 
B
1. 
Ministry of Health 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the MOH
 
to be responsible for overall 
implementation of Subprogram B in accordance with the Operational 
Manual.
 
The 
Central Joint Steering Committee
,
Regional Joint Steering 
Committees
 and 
Woreda Joint Steering Committees 
respectively, federal, 
regional and local levels, shall assist MOH in the implementation of 
Subprogram B in accordance with the Operational Manual and as set 
forth below. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the Recipient 
shall cause CJSC to ensure that:  
(i) 
procurement and logistics plans are appropriately drawn up and 
implemented;  
(ii) 
procurement is timely and commodities are efficiently and 
equitably distributed to beneficiary institutions in the Regions 
and at local levels;   
(iii) 
capacity building plans are fully implemented;  
(iv) 
quarterly meetings are held with RJSCs to assess the 
implementation of Subprogram B and make recommendations, 
as necessary; and  
(v) 
regular quarterly reports are provided to the Recipient on the 
status of implementation of Subprogram B for consolidation into 
the Project Reports submitted to the Association.  
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the functions of 
RJSCs in the implementation of Subprogram B shall include:  
(i) 
regular supervision of implementation of Subprogram B in the 
Region concerned;  
(ii) 
holding of quarterly meetings with WJSCs to assess the status of 
implementation and agree on next steps; and  
(iii) 
participation in quarterly meetings of the CJSC and submission 
to it of regular quarterly reports covering aspects such as finance, 
service delivery outputs and outcomes, availability of technical 
staff and commodities, challenges encountered during 
implementation and actions taken.   
(d) 
Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) above, the responsibilities of 
WJSCs in the implementation of Subprogram B shall include:  
(i) 
regular transportation of commodities and equipment from 
designated medical stores to health institutions at local levels;  
(ii) 
ensuring of timely, need-based distribution of items to health 
facilities;  
(iii) 
review of monthly institutional reports and provision of 
recommendations, as necessary;  
(iv) 
holding of quarterly meetings to assess implementation status 
and agree on next steps;  
(v) 
submission of quarterly reports to the relevant RJSC; and  
(vi) 
participation in RJSC quarterly meetings.  
2. 
The Recipient shall appoint a Procurement Agent for purposes of Part 2 of the 
Project by December 31, 2006.  
 
Page  12
-
11
-
D. Environmental 
Safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Handling and Disposal of Medical Waste. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare, as necessary, a Vector Management Plan in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association and implement the Project in 
accordance with such Plan. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in sub-paragraph 
(b) below.  Each Project Report shall cover a period of six (6) months, and shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than three (3) months after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:   
(i) 
The aggregate level of Block Grant transfers including 
Subprogram A resources (Federal Government to Regions and 
Regions to Local Authorities) is maintained at approved 
budgeted levels for EFY98 and increased in EFY99.   
 
(ii) 
Block Grant transfers to Local Authorities including 
Subprogram A resources are in accordance with 
intergovernmental fiscal rules.  
 
(iii) 
The utilization of insecticide-treated malaria bed-nets among 
children under five years of age in malaria-affected areas 
increases to 60% in EFY99 relative to 4% in EFY97. 
 
(iv) 
DPT3 vaccination coverage increases to 60% in EFY99 relative 
to 32% in EFY97. 
Page  13
-
12
-
(v) 
The contraceptive prevalence rate increases to 20% in EFY99 
from 14% in EFY97.   
 
(vi) 
There is a 5% increase in 
citizens’ understanding of public 
budget processes in EFY99 relative to EFY98 as assessed by a 
quantitative survey. 
 
2. 
During Project implementation, the Recipient shall ensure that at least five Joint 
Budget and Aid Reviews (JBARs) are carried out, pursuant to the provisions of 
the Operational Manual, and according to the schedule as follows: 
 
(a) 
First JBAR in October 2006; 
 
(b) 
Second JBAR in January 2007;  
 
(c) 
Third JBAR in April 2007 coinciding with the Project’s mid-term 
review;  
 (d) 
Fourth JBAR in June 2007; and 
 
(e) 
Fifth JBAR in October 2008. 
3. 
The Recipient shall also undertake to complete:  
 
(a) 
by December 31, 2006: field work for a baseline financial transparency 
and accountability perception survey; and  
 
(b) 
by September 30, 2007: (a) a draft report on the results of a quantitative 
health service delivery survey; and (b) field work for a follow-up of the financial 
transparency and accountability perception survey. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than three (3) months after the 
end of each Ethiopian fiscal quarter, interim unaudited Financial Monitoring 
Page  14
-
13
-
Reports for the Project covering such quarter, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than nine (9) months after the end of such period. 
4. 
The Recipient shall also cause OFAG to audit, on a continuous basis, samples of 
Regions and Local Authorities that have received funds under Subprogram A.  
The Recipient shall cause OFAG to provide the Association with quarterly 
summaries of these audit findings within three (3) months of the end of each 
Ethiopian fiscal quarter. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. Domestic preference will apply when 
included in bidding documents.  
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Methods
(a) Limited International Bidding 
 
(b)
 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
(c)
 
Shopping
 
(d) Direct Contracting 
(e) Procurement from United Nations C
hildren’s Fund 
(UNICEF) and United Nations Population Fund 
(UNFPA) 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For the purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
consulting services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, per contract, 
may include only consultants from the country of the Recipient. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods
(a)
 
Least Cost Selection 
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c) Single Source Selection  
(d) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(e) Community Participation 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; 
(b) the first two contracts procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; 
Page  16
-
15
-
(c) all contracts procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and  
(f) all contracts selected on Single Source basis.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.  
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Categories 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
%
of expenditures 
to be financed 
1. Subprogram 
A 
 
132,150,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
2. Subprogram 
B 
 
13,920,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
3. 
Subprogram C 
1,400,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the Association 
may determine for each EFY 
4. Unallocated 
 
2,130,000  
TOTAL 
149,600,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:  
Page  17
-
16
-
(a) 
for payments in respect of expenditures incurred prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed forty-three million Dollars ($43,000,000) equivalent may be in 
respect of Eligible Expenditures incurred under Category 1 for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after July 8, 2005; or  
(b) 
under Category 1, unless it is confirmed that:  
(i) 
in October 2006: (A) Subprogram A satisfactory to the 
Association relating to the relevant Project quarter has been 
submitted for the EFY of Project implementation; and (B) the 
second JBAR has been successfully completed, and an FMR 
relating to the relevant Project quarter has been submitted to the 
Association;  
(ii) 
in January 2007: (A) Subprogram A satisfactory to the 
Association relating to the relevant Project quarter has been 
submitted for the EFY of Project implementation; (B) the third 
JBAR has been successfully completed, and an FMR relating to 
the relevant Project quarter has been submitted to the 
Association;  
(iii) 
in April 2007: (A) Subprogram A satisfactory to the Association 
relating to the relevant Project quarter has been submitted for the 
EFY of Project implementation; (B) the fourth JBAR has been 
successfully completed, and an FMR relating to the relevant 
Project quarter has been submitted to the Association;  
(iv) 
in June 2007: (A) Subprogram A satisfactory to the Association 
relating to the relevant Project quarter has been submitted for the 
EFY of Project implementation; and (B) the fifth JBAR has been 
successfully completed, and an FMR relating to the relevant 
Project quarter has been submitted to the Association; and 
(v) 
for all subsequent quarters: (A) Subprogram A satisfactory to the 
Association relating to the relevant Project quarter has been 
submitted for the EFY of Project implementation; and (B) an 
FMR relating to the relevant Project quarter has been submitted 
to the Association. 
(c) 
under Category 2, for the second and subsequent withdrawals, unless it is 
confirmed that: (A) Subprogram B satisfactory to the Association 
Page  18
-
17
-
relating to the relevant EFY of Project implementation; and (B) an FMR 
relating to the relevant Project quarter has been submitted to the 
Association; or 
(d) 
under Category 3, unless it is confirmed that: (A) Subprogram C 
satisfactory to the Association relating to the relevant EFY of Project 
implementation; and (B) an FMR relating to the relevant Project quarter 
has been submitted to the Association. 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008.  
 
Page  19
-
18
-
APPENDIX 
I. Definitions 
(1) 
“Block Grant” means the monthly transfer of treasury resources from the Federal 
Government to Regional Governments and from Regions to Local Authorities as 
per agreed constitutional and intergovernmental fiscal rules of the Recipient;  
(2) 
“Bureau of Finance and Economic Development” or “BOFED” means the 
agency established at regional level within the administration of the Regional 
Government with responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I (B) 
(1) (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(3) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV (A) (2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(4) 
“Central Joint Steering Committee” or “CJSC” means a committee created at the 
federal level pursuant to HSDP 3 and which will carry out certain functions 
under Part 2 of the Project as described in Section I (C) (1) (b) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement;  
(5) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in  
May 2004; 
(6) 
“Designated Pooled Account A” means the account to be maintained in the 
National Bank of Ethiopia in Dollars to finance activities relating to 
 
Subprograms A and C, into which the Pooled Funding A Partners funds shall be 
deposited; 
(7) 
“Designated Pooled Account B” means the account to be maintained in the 
National Bank of Ethiopia in Dollars to finance activities relating to 
 
Subprogram B, into which the Pooled Funding B Partners funds shall be 
deposited; 
 
(8) 
“DPT3 vaccination” means a series of immunizations to prevent diphtheria, 
pertussis (whooping cough) and tetanus in children, to be administered in three 
doses, at the ages of one month, one month-and-a-half and three months; 
(9) 
“Ethiopian Fiscal Year” or “EFY” means the Fiscal Year of the Recipient which 
commences on July 8 and ends on July 7; 
Page  20
-
19
-
(10) 
“Federal Government” means the first tier of government in the administrative 
system of Recipient established under the Recipient’s Federal Constitution of 
1995;  
(11) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means the report on the basis of which 
disbursements shall take place, referred to in Section II (B) (2) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, which sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing funds provided 
under Designated Pooled Accounts A and B, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of such funds; describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report; 
(12) 
“Food Security Program” means the program financed by the Recipient to 
address the needs of chronically food insecure households through the provision 
of agricultural and microfinance services;  
(13) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005; 
(14) 
“Guidelines for Handling and Disposal of Medical Waste” means the Recipient’s 
Guidelines describing measures to be taken by health facilities for the prevention 
of health hazards arising from the improper handling and disposal of medical, 
pathological, chemical, infectious, biological or pharmaceutical waste, dated 
September 1997, and referred to in Section I (D) (1) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;  
(15) 
“Health Millennium Development Goals Performance Facility” or “Facility” 
means the facility referred to in Part 2 of the Project as described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(16) 
“HSDP 3” means the Recipient’s Third Health Sector Development Program for 
the period 2005-06 through 2010-11;  
(17) 
“JBAR” or Joint Budget and Aid Review means each periodic review jointly 
carried out by the Recipient and Pooled Funding A and B Partners as described in 
Section II (A) (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
(18)  
“Key Line Ministries” means the Recipient’s Ministries including Education, 
Agriculture and Rural Development, Federal Affairs, and Water Resources;  
(19) 
“Local Authorities” means the third tier of government in the administrative 
system of Recipient established under each Region’s constitution and includes 
Woredas and Urban Administrations; 
(20) 
“MCB” means the Recipient’s Federal Ministry of Capacity Building which has 
responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I (B) (2) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; 
(21) 
“MOFED” means the Recipient’s Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development which is responsible for certain functions under the Project as 
described in Section I (B) (1) (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(22) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Federal Ministry of Health which has 
responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I (C) (1) (a) of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement; 
(23) 
“MOU A” means the Memorandum of Understanding referred to in 
 
Section I (A) (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered into between the 
Recipient, the Association and all the Pooled Funding A Partners providing for 
common arrangements and procedures on procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and exchange of 
information required for the implementation of Subprograms A and C; 
(24) 
“MOU B” means the Memorandum of Understanding referred to in 
 
Section I (A) (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered into between the 
Recipient, the Association and all the Pooled Funding B Partners providing for 
common arrangements and procedures on procurement, disbursement, 
accounting, monitoring, reporting, auditing, coordination and exchange of 
information required for the implementation of Subprogram B; 
(25) 
“Office of the Federal Auditor General” or “OFAG” means the office of the 
constitutionally mandated financial auditor of the Recipient; 
(26) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association setting forth details of the procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
criteria required for the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to 
time with the prior agreement of the Association; 
Page  22
-
21
-
(27) 
“Pooled Funding A Partners” means collectively, the Association and any other 
international development agencies or governments that are pooling at least a 
part of their funds for Parts 1 and 3 of the Project into Designated Pooled 
Account A, and who will be a party to MOU A; 
(28) 
“Pooled Funding B Partners” means collectively, the Association and any other 
international development agencies or governments that are pooling at least a 
part of their funds for the Part 2 of the Project into Designated Pooled Account B, 
and who will be a party to MOU B; 
(29) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
(30) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 25, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
(31) 
“Program” means the Recipient’s strategic plan for: (i) the health sector, as set 
forth in the Health Sector Development Program dated September 2005 and 
covering the period from 2005-06 to 2010-11; (ii) the education sector, as set 
forth in the Education Sector Development Program dated August 2005 and 
covering the period from 2005-06 to 2009-10; (iii) the water and sanitation 
sector, as set forth in the Water Sector Strategy dated 2001 and Water Sector 
Development Program dated 2002 and covering the period from 2002 to 2016; 
and (iv) devolution of responsibilities, as set forth in  the Fiscal Decentralization 
Strategy dated September 2004; 
(32) 
“Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment” or “PEFA 
Assessment” means an assessment of the public expenditure and financial 
accountability systems of the Recipient, including key recommendations and an 
action plan; 
(33) 
“Regions” means the Recipient’s nine states, namely Tigray, Amhara, Oromia, 
Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples, Benishangul-Gumuz, Gambella, 
Somali, Afar and Harrari and includes, wherever mentioned in this Agreement 
for purposes of this Project, the City Administration of Dire Dawa; 
(34) 
“Regional Government” means the second tier of government in the 
administrative system of Recipient established under the Recipient’s Federal 
Constitution of 1995; 
Page  23
-
22
-
(35) 
“Regional Joint Steering Committee” or “RJSC” means each committee created 
at the regional level pursuant to HSDP 3 and which will carry out certain 
functions under Part 2 of the Project as described in Section I (C) (1) (c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
(36) 
“Sub-national Governments” means the Recipient’s Regional Governments and 
Local Authorities;  
(37) 
“Subprogram A” means an annual program of activities and associated budget 
for Part 1 of the Project to be financed from Designated Pooled 
 
Account A; 
(38) 
“Subprogram B” means an annual program of activities and associated budget for 
Part 2 of the Project to be financed from Designated Pooled Account B; 
(39) 
“Subprogram C” means an annual program of activities and associated budget for 
Part 3 of the Project to be financed from Designated Pooled Account A; 
(40) 
“Urban Administration” means the third tier of government in the Recipient’s 
administrative system as established under the relevant regional legislation and 
having the same status as a Woreda; 
(41) 
“Urban Administration Office of Finance” or “UAOF” means the governmental 
agency established at local level in an Urban Administration with responsibilities 
under the Project as described in Section I (B) (1) (c) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(42) 
“Vector Management Plan” means a plan describing the chemical, biological and 
environmental methods for the control of disease-carrying insects referred to in 
Section I (D) (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
(43) 
“Woreda” means the third tier of government in the Recipient’s administrative 
system as established under the relevant regional legislation;  
(44) 
“Woreda Joint Steering Committee” or “WJSC” means each committee created 
at the local level pursuant to HSDP 3 and which will carry out certain functions 
under Part 2 of the Project as described in Section I (C) (1) (d) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and 
(45) 
“Woreda Office of Finance and Economic Development” or “WOFED” means 
the governmental agency established at local level in a Woreda with 
Page  24
-
23
-
responsibilities under the Project as described in Section I (B) (1) (c) of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
II. 
Modification to the General Conditions 
 
The modification to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the 
Association, dated July 1, 2005 is as follows: 
 Section 
2.05 
Eligible Expenditures 
 
“(a) 
(i) with respect to Subprogram A, operating costs (including salaries of 
the officials of the Recipient’s civil service, equipment operation and 
maintenance costs, communication charges, transportation costs, field 
supervision travel allowances, office supplies, and fuel); (ii) with respect to 
Subprogram B, goods, training and workshops, consultants’ services including 
audits, and operating costs (including equipment operation and maintenance 
costs, communication charges, transportation costs, field supervision travel 
allowances, office supplies, and fuel); and (iii) with respect to Subprogram C, 
goods, training and workshops, consultants’ services including audits, and 
operating costs (including equipment operation and maintenance costs, 
communication charges, transportation costs, field supervision travel allowances, 
office supplies, and fuel);”
 
