Document of
The World Bank
For Official Use Only
Report No.: T7638-IQ
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
TRUST FUND GRANT
OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
FOR AN
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
January 22, 2005
Rural Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their|
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective September, 2004)
Currency Unit = US$
US$1 = Iraqi Dinar 1,460
FISCAL YEAR (GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ)
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECHO               European Commission Humanitarian Affairs Office
ESSAF              Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
MA                 Monitoring Agent
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOPDC              Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
MOWR               Ministry of Water Resources
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
OP                 Operational Policy
PC                 Project Coordinator
PIP                Project Implementation Plan
PMT                Project Management Team
PP                 Procurement Plan
SBD                Standard Bidding Document
SOEs               State-Owned Enterprises
TA                 Technical Assistance
TOR                Terms of Reference
UNDG               United Nations Development Group
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President                             Christiaan Poortman
Country Director                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director                           Letitia A. Obeng
Sector Manager                            N. Vijay Jagannathan
Task Team Leader                           Steve Maber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page
No.
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
A       INTRODUCTION                                                          I
B       DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                          5
C       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                 8
D       PROCUREMENT                                                           16
E       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS                                18
F       MONITORING, REPORTING AND AUDITING                                   20
G       RISKS                                                                 26
Annexes
Annex 1    Subproject Proposal - Appraisal Checklist                             27
Annex 2    Emergency Rehabilitation Projects Already Identified By MOWR          31
Annex 3    Responsibility Matrix                                                 32
Annex 4    Draft Terms of Reference for the Financial Management,                33
Procurement/Disbursement Specialist and Senior Technical Advisor
Annex 5    Procurement Arrangements/Procurement Plan                             37
Annex 6    Financial Management and Disbursement                                40
Annex 7    Draft TOR for the World Bank Consultant Team                          47
Annex 8    Project Management and Capacity Building - Cost Estimates             49
Working    1. Environmental and Social Screening & Assessment Framework
Papers    2. Procurement Capacity Assessment
(Separate
Document)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



I



REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grant Recipient:       Ministry of Water Resources
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Water Resources
Loan/Credit/Grant:     Grant from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund
Amount:                US$20 million
Objectives &           The project will address current emergency needs for infrastructure
Description:          rehabilitation at the community level and generate employment.
This will cover the restoration of rural infrastructure using labor-
intensive, small-scale civil works programs for water supply,
sanitation, irrigation and drainage infrastructure subprojects.
Project Appraisal      This project is prepared in accordance with Emergency Recovery
Document:              Assistance procedures (Operational Policy OP 8.50.) As such,
there is no Project Appraisal Document for this project.
Disbursement:          The Grant is planned to be fully disbursed by June 30, 2007
Project ID Number:     P087881



i
i
I
I



REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY COMMUNrrY
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Annex
A.    INTRODUCTION
Background
1.    The  World Bank/United Nations Development Group      (UNDG) Needs
Assessment for Iraq dated September 2003 identified two phases in restoring the key
productive activities in Iraq. The first phase focuses on the short-term need for stabilizing
the economy by attending to the critical problems of restoration of essential services and
employment. The second phase would address the more intermediate and long-term
needs of rehabilitating the run-down infrastructure and allocating resources towards
efficiency enhancement and generation of a competitive market economy. The total
estimated funding requirement for agriculture, water resources and food security was
estimated to be US$1.85 billion over four years.
2.    The International Conference of Donors for Iraq held in Madrid on October 23-
24, 2003 expressed support for the Needs Assessment and pledged about US$32 billion
for the four-year period covered by the Needs Assessment. Donors also asked the World
Bank and UNDG to set up an International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq to
ensure swift, flexible, and coordinated donor financing for priority investments consistent
with the Needs Assessment. The Facility now consists of two trust funds-a World Bank
Iraq Trust Fund and a UNDG Trust Fund-each with its own characteristics and terms of
reference and with a structure that ensures close coordination.
3.    In support of the short-term Phase 1 actions, the World Bank earmarked US$20
million from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) to finance urgent activities in rural
areas, including the emergency rehabilitation of priority irrigation, drainage and water
and sanitation in an Emergency Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(ECIRP).
The Rural Areas of Iraq
4.    Twenty seven percent of Iraq's total population of 26 million lives in rural areas.
In 1975 the agricultural sector used to provide employment for about 31 percent of the
population. This fell to about 20 percent by 1990 because of poorly implemented land
reforms, the introduction of agricultural mechanization and increasing job opportunities
in the urban areas. However, following large-scale unemployment after the start of the
UN sanctions in 1990 many people went back to agriculture and back to the rural areas of
Iraq. By 2002, employment in the agricultural sector again reached an estimated 32
percent of total employment. There has been little investment in the rural areas over the
1



past decade, leaving much of the infrastructure (including irrigation and water supply
services) in a very poor state of repair. Unemployment remains widespread.
Rehabilitation of existing infrastructure could have a rapid impact on the lives of the rural
population by improving domestic water supplies and increasing economic opportunities
in irrigated agriculture.
The Water Sector
4.    As elsewhere, water is a critical element of Iraq's agriculture and the rural
economy. About half of the country's total cultivated area is in the northeastern plains
and mountain valleys, where rainfall sustains agriculture. The remainder of the cultivated
land is in the valleys of the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers, which receive scant rainfall and
rely instead on water from the rivers. The peak natural flow of the rivers is in the spring,
but the flow can be adjusted by a series of dams and hydraulic structures on the rivers and
their tributaries. However, even with these dams in place, the flow of the rivers varies
considerably every year and destructive flooding, particularly of the Tigris, is frequent.
5.    About 98 percent of Iraq's renewable water resources come from surface water
and two percent from groundwater. Most of the water that is utilized is dedicated to
agriculture (about 87 percent), while industry uses about 8 percent and about 5 percent
goes for municipal use. The country has a very old and established irrigation system, two
thirds of which is supplied by gravity through major canal systems controlled by river
intakes, diversion weirs, etc. or directly from reservoirs, and about a third is pumped from
rivers and major channels. An extensive canal network exists within the river basins from
which water is diverted to fields for agriculture. The major hydraulic infrastructure
consists of a series of dams and barrages located on both rivers. The big dams are multi-
purpose (hydroelectric, irrigation, domestic) and the smaller dams are built to supply
water to cities and irrigation schemes.
6.    These major structures have operated for a long time without maintenance or
proper management plans. A majority of the pumping stations were built in the early
1970s, and only three stations are relatively new. An estimated US$1.5 billion was spent
under the Oil-for-Food program to replace worn out components of the pumping stations,
procurement of heavy equipment for canal cleaning and procurement of irrigation pumps
and sprinkler systems. But after the war in 2003, over 500 large irrigation and drainage
pumping stations were still reported to be in bad state of repair, and many rural
communities were cut off from their economic activities because of the breakdown of
irrigation and drainage systems.
7.    In 2003, provisions were made under donor funding to replace 31 pumps and
ancillary equipment to prevent the impending breakdown of key elements in the system.
But the primary, secondary and tertiary canal and drainage networks remained degraded
for the most part due to lack of maintenance. Breakage of canal linings, outgrowth of
weeds and sedimentation have reduced their conveyance capacity significantly, and
increased water losses enormously. Repairs to these systems can provide quick returns. In
2



northem Iraq irrigated lands are scattered over small farms in the mountain areas or
intermediate valleys and use water diverted from streams or springs. Most of the
infrastructure in this region also has deteriorated although some rehabilitation of small
gravity irrigation schemes was achieved under the Oil-for Food program. Much remains
to be done, however, throughout the country. The project would help rehabilitate some of
these small-scale schemes.
Rural Water and Sanitation
8.    Iraq's water and sewage system has also been severely disrupted by the conflicts
and the ensuing period of disorder. Looting and sabotage decimated stocks and
equipment supplies, including water purification chemicals, and damaged water-testing
labs.
9.    In rural areas, particularly in the south, the water sources for washing and
domestic use are extremely unreliable and dangerous for the people. Access to potable
water is estimated to be only 46 percent in rural areas. Sanitation facilities are in a similar
precarious state and 25 percent of the population lack safe sewage facilities. One of the
most serious consequences of the poor water and sanitation condition in rural areas has
been a sharp increase in waterbome diseases.
10.   A quick response from UNDP, with funding from the European Commission
Humanitarian Affairs Office (ECHO), helped relieve some of the immediate problems of
water and sanitation in major urban areas such as Baghdad, Basrah, and Mosul. But
despite these donor efforts, rural areas still have enormous need for help, and the project
would aim at providing this help.
The Difficult Implementation Environment
11.   The following special concerns need to be taken into account in the design and
organization of the project:
Continuing Insecurity: Violence and civil strife continue to undermine rehabilitation
efforts, and are the most important factors currently slowing operations. Insecurity has
particularly affected the redeployment of intemational aid agencies to the rural areas and
is substantially limiting local staff movement. Moreover, even though mass looting has
stopped, theft and destruction remain a high risk in some areas, posing an important
problem for all programs. Under the project, the risk of delays due to insecurity will be
mitigated by giving priority to work sites in lower risk areas.
Limited Administrative Capacity: Many senior Iraqi personnel were removed from
office after the war in 2003 leaving many ministries with significantly reduced technical
and decision-making capacity. In addition, damaged physical facilities of different
govemment establishments made working particularly difficult. The rebuilding of
3



physical facilities and administrative capacity at both the national and locai levels has
become necessary for planning and implementation of activities. Consulting support will
be provided as necessary to improve administrative capacity.
Inadequate Institutional Capacity: Iraq lacks many fundamental institutional capacities
for undertaking development activities. Foremost is the inadequacy of the existing
financial sector. The state-owned banks, which form the core of the banking system, are
nearly dysfunctional. The country therefore faces a major challenge in financial
management of its development budget. A weak private sector, including the construction
and contracting, will also impede rapid development work. In essence, the low absorptive
capacity of the system, particularly in rural areas, may slow down the pace of
development. Financial systems and procedures under the project have been designed to
take account of these weaknesses.
4



B.    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Rationale
12.   Bringing water to rural communities by rehabilitating water supply, sanitation,
irrigation and drainage systems can provide early wins in Iraq, with potentially high
economic and social benefits particularly in the south of Iraq where there is an acute
water shortage. The proposed Emergency Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project would help Iraq address urgent water rehabilitation needs in rural areas while at
the same time creating opportunities for employment. However, there is ongoing conflict
in Iraq, and access to many areas is restricted. Furthermore, the Bank lacks experience in
Iraq, is unfamiliar with the operations of the Ministry of Water Resources [MOWR] and
has only limited knowledge of the dynamics of rural communities. And although the
MOWR has general ideas about where the priorities are and what needs to be done, it
does not have a pipeline of pre-prepared subprojects ready for implementation. In this
situation, in order to respond rapidly and effectively to rural water rehabilitation needs, a
programmatic approach is proposed to be adopted which will allow a flexible response by
the Bank. The project takes into account the important work being carried out by other
donor and agencies, such as USAID, UNDG, and FAO.
Alternatives Project Proposals Considered and Reasons for Rejection
13.   Two other major alternatives to the current proposal for the programmatic
approach to be used in the ECIRP were considered and rejected for the rural areas before
the current project was finalized: (i) a large-scale irrigation drainage project; (ii) a
community-driven development (CDD) approach. A series of large-scale projects were
designed by external consultants for the MOWR during the early 1980s. These included
major irrigation schemes and civil works, but none of them have been implemented
during the past 20 years. It was thought initially, that these very detailed technical
specifications could accelerate the design process and form the basis for a comprehensive
program of emergency works. However, when the documents were reviewed, they were
found to be out of date. Furthermore, there was a concern that the majority of the works
had many inter-dependencies that could not easily be split into smaller modules. This
large-scale project approach was therefore rejected. The second alternative of CDD based
on mobilizing local communities was rejected because the security, logistical and
political situation is not ready for this type of grass roots project. The final decision was
to support relatively simple small-scale (less than US$1 million) subprojects in the water
sector using a flexible programmatic approach which is more in tune with the current
situation in rural Iraq.
5



Project Approach
14.   The ECIRP is primarily designed as an emergency operation. Its overriding
purpose is to focus on immediate rehabilitation needs in the water sector in rural areas.
The project will finance four subprojects already identified by the MOWR (see Part A
below), in addition to subprojects that will be identified during project implementation
(see Part B below). It is expected that 20-24 subprojects will be financed under the
project overall. The project will finance feasibility studies for subprojects to be financed
under Part B, and to develop a pipeline of subprojects for future implementation, thereby
facilitating the continuation of reconstruction interventions in the rural areas into the
medium-term. Given the high risks resulting from the current situation in Iraq and the
lack of recent experience in implementing development projects and programs in Iraq,
the project design has been kept as simple and flexible as possible to facilitate
implementation.
Project Development Objective
15.   The objective of the project is to address current emergency needs in Iraq for
infrastructure rehabilitation at the community level and generate employment. This will
cover the restoration of rural infrastructure using labor-intensive, small-scale civil works
programs for water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage infrastructure subprojects.
Detailed Features
16.   Part A: Subprojects in Municipalities of Al Muthanna. Al Amara. Nassariyah. and
Sulaymanivah
Subprojects for rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, water supply and sanitation
facilities in Municipalities of Al Muthanna, Al Amara, Nassariyah, and Sulaymaniyah.
Four subprojects in these regions have already been identified including the small-scale
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation schemes and the rehabilitation of 20 multipurpose
wells (Annex 2).
Part B: Subprojects to be Identified in Other Priority Areas
Subprojects for rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, water supply and sanitation
facilities in other priority areas. Twelve subprojects distributed across Iraq have been
identified by MOWR at the feasibility level and are being further processed. Other
subprojects are also under review by the MOWR.
Part C: Preparation of Feasibility Studies
The preparation of feasibility and design studies for (i) priority small-scale work
to be implemented under the project; and (ii) large-scale projects which could be
implemented subsequent to the project under other sources of financing.
6



Part D: Project Management and Capacity Building
Support to the management of the project including: (i) the establishment of a
Project Management Team (PMT) in the MOWR; (ii) the provision of technical
assistance and training in project management, procurement and financial management;
(iii) capacity building to ensure the appropriate transfer of skills to the staff of the
Recipient; and (iv) the employment of experts to assist with project management and
capacity building activities; and (v) the provision of equipment for the PMT (see Annex 8
for details).
Project Costs
Part               Component                 Grant Allocated  % of Expenditures
(US$m Equivaleol)  to be Financed
A    Implementation of 4 Subprojects already     2.5              100%
Identified
B    Implementation of New Subprojects to be    10.5              100%
Identified
Consultants' Services for the Preparation of  3.0            100%
C___  Feasibility Studies and Design Packages    3.0_100%
D    Project Management and Capacity Building     2.0             100%
-   Unallocated                                  2.0              100%
TOTAL                                             20.0
17.   Subproject Size: Investment in rehabilitation subprojects are expected to be in
the range of US$300,000 to US$1,000,000 per individual intervention, while the
maximum amount of financing of feasibility studies, which will be determined during the
identification of such proposals, will not exceed US$300,000 per study. Proposals for
feasibility/preparation studies and subproject works will be encouraged from all the
Governorates in the country, with no regional preferences, taking the security situation
into account.
18.   Expected Outputs: The expected outputs of the ECIRP project are:
(i)    Several rehabilitated water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage
infrastructure schemes; it is expected that 20-24 subprojects will be
financed overall.
(ii)  Increased short-term employment in project areas;
(iii)  A portfolio of priority rural water infrastructure projects complete with
feasibility and design studies. Some smaller scale schemes would be
financed out of ECIRP proceeds. Larger projects would be financed by
subsequent projects/programs;
(iv)  Increased capacity at the local, regional and central levels to plan and
implement small-scale infrastructure reconstruction projects.
7



C.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL
ARRANGEMENTS
Implementing Agency
19.   The MOWR will implement the ECIRP. Other ministries responsible for rural
infrastructure will be consulted on the feasibility and design studies. The responsibility
matrix for various tasks is shown in Annex 3. A Project Coordinator has been appointed
from within the staff of the MOWR. The Project Coordinator is based within the Unit of
the Special Advisor for Engineering and Planning within the MOWR. The Project
Coordinator is forming a Project Management Team (PMT) and coordinating across the
various ministerial units contributing to the implementation of the ECIRP (the lighter-
shaded boxes in the organigram below):
20.    The PMT will be supported by external consultants hired under the ECIRP (PMT
consultants). Specific consultants, among others to be decided at a later stage, will
include a Financial Management Specialist, a Procurement/Disbursement Specialist and a
Senior Technical Advisor (draft TORs for all three positions are in Annex 4).
STRUCTURE of the MINISTRY           MINISTER OF
of WATER RESOURCES               WATER RESOURCES      E     MNT
| INSPECTOR GENERAL        | EXECUTIVE SUPPORT
I SPCC LADVISORFOR I MCLAI. A|VISOR = OR  SPECIAL A VISOR R  ECIRP
CONSTRUCTIO AND   STATEOE         ENGINEERINGAN                        ADMINITRATION
OPERtATIONS      COMPANIN PLANNING                   P MT             AND SERVICES
| ~~~~~~~CO_10|1 OR    O        O_ FOR | | COMMISSO FOR A T eC | |NTooUV 
SUNTAINASLE~~~ DUVELOPUENTDUTII
COISSISION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA COOCFTIJYDNCL 
C = ,FQR                  ~~~~~~~~~~~ENVIRN'tMENTAL  STRAEGI1C  LGLCU
SHENIERIN          yANA I           PLaNN
nlmvol        D~~~~EBNTE        CENTER            CENTER     NUN"miRSOIIC
C  RMSSNFR       CONTERHDOOI                       NENTONL    FNNESACUTN
CONSTRUCTION   _   EOTIMTING     _    ALYIE        _    ATER'
MANAGEMENT         CENTER           cENTER             CER       ASE MAE
PROCUREMENT 
COmm_EWON FOR    MATERLALTE TING   WATR COTRO|       ENVIRONMENTAL  CONTRACTNG
SYSTEm          AISETOOPATNSOLICYA
ENTER       ~~~~CENTER        COMPLIANCE   If CENTE
1 g | 1 J | ~~~-                                            ITL1WW
MR          ~~~~DEIGINSI    GROUNISWATELR   _   PROJECT
| caFETY U 
DREDOM             sI               GlMvF
8



Functions of PMT
21.   Specific functions of the Project Coordinator and the Project Management Team,
supported by the PMT consultants, will include the following project management core
functions:
(i)   Managing the project in accordance with the Operational Manual.
(ii)  Supervising and overseeing the implementation of the subprojects, including:
identifying and preparing proposals for feasibility studies and subprojects on a
rolling plan for inclusion in the ECIRP according to the agreed selection criteria
and supervising consultants and contractors in the field ensuring adequate quality
of consultant and contractor performance and compliance with the terms of
reference.
(iii)  Developing terms of reference for feasibility studies (consultant services) and
subproject implementation (rehabilitation works) and procuring services,
equipment and works in accordance with the procurement plan and applicable
World Bank Guidelines.
(iv)  Preparing payment requests related to feasibility studies and subproject
implementation, including processing of payments, suspension, termination, and
contract close out.
(v)   Regular reporting on project progress, financial status and impact..
(vi)  Organizing promotional activities in project areas to inform communities of
project objectives and procedures.
Subproject Preparation and Review Responsibilities
22.   The MOWR will identify and prepare the priority subprojects to be funded under the
project involving the rehabilitation of water supply systems, sanitation facilities, irrigation canals
and drainage infrastructure. Eligibility of subprojects will be determined according to the
selection criteria set out below covering technical, economic and environmental soundness, and
readiness for implementation. The MOWR and the Ministry of Planning and Development
Cooperation will review the proposed program and ensure that there is no overlap or duplication
with other donors' activities, and the Iraqi Strategic Review Board will review and provide
approval as required. Finalized subproject proposals and feasibility study proposals will be
submitted to the World Bank for review and approval prior to implementation.
Subproject Approval Criteria
23.   Approval by MOWR and the Bank of any proposed subprojects or feasibility studies will
be subject to proposals meeting the agreed criteria listed below. As the process moves forward,
these criteria may be revised and modified in line with project objectives by mutual agreement
between MOWR and the Bank. The activities to be financed under the ECIRP will have to meet
the following basic criteria:
(i)   Each activity must receive approval through the Iraqi Strategy Review Board
(ISRB) as a priority emergency project prior to implementation.
9



(ii)  Proposed subprojects and feasibility studies should be for rural areas, focusing on
water supply, sanitation, irrigation or drainage rehabilitation.
(iii)  Proposals should be labor-intensive, utilizing local labor inputs as much as
practicable.
(iv)  Individual feasibility study packages supported by the project should not exceed a
total cost of US$300,000, and for rehabilitation subprojects should be in the range
of US$300,000 to US$1,000,000.
(v)   Feasibility studies and subprojects should meet the specific appraisal criteria.
(vi)  Subprojects for immediate implementation and feasibility/subproject preparation
studies should be in compliance with the World Bank's Environmental and Social
Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) - (see Working Papers).
(vii)  Subprojects need to have acceptable economic indicators:
*  In the case of irrigation and drainage subprojects, the indicator to be used
will be the Capital/Output [C/O] ratio (in this case the ratio of the economic
cost per hectare under the subproject compared with the induced value of
incremental production per hectare per annum at full development). The
maximum allowable C/O ratio as defined will generally be 10.
*  For water supply and sanitation subprojects, proposals will be selected on
the basis of the solution which results in the least economic cost for the
provision of services to the selected community. The selection process for
water and sanitation subprojects will favor those projects which allow a
maximum number of beneficiaries at the lowest reasonable cost.
24.   In general, subproject proposals should be based on perceived immediate needs of local
communities for irrigation and drainage services and attend to the most urgent rehabilitation
works in rural areas. For this reason, MOWR will develop these proposals in consultation with
local communities. Furthermore, proposals should be:
(i)   Free of resettlement, relocation and land acquisition issues;
(ii)  Not budgeted from other resources;
(iii)  Consistent with MOWR's strategic priorities and plans;
(iv)  Prepared in consultation with other line Ministries where feasibility studies for new
proposals are involved so as to avoid duplication and conflict.
A flowchart showing the sequential steps of the ECIRP subproject cycle is below:
10



Flowchart of Sequential Steps under the ECIRP Subproject Implementation Cycle
ENTRY-POINT  FILTER    REVIEW   PREPARATION  ACTIVITIES  PRODUCTS
--   ULAT FORMULA
Documentation Required for Rehabilitation Subproject Proposals
25.   For rehabilitation subprojects, the PMTIMOWR would complete a Subproject Proposal
Form (Annex 1) that includes the following information:
(i)   Brief description of socio-economic conditions in the proposed communities;
(ii)  Rationale for community targeting and priority water supply, sanitation, irrigation
or drainage infrastructure needs;
(iii)  Technical design or sketches and any technical assessment;
(iv)  A brief economic benefit analysis;
(v)   Bill of quantities;
(vi)  Simplified plan and budget for operation and maintenance;
(vii)  Copies of written licenses and permiits for proposed work; and
(viii) Applicable forms and data sheets of the ESSAF.
26.   The MOWR has already identified and dimensioned a small number of high priority
rehabilitation projects, including three irrigation rehabilitation systems in the south near Basra
and a drinking-water well rehabilitation project in the Kurdish region in the north of Iraq - see
details in Annex 2. These proposals will need to be carefully reviewed by the MO)WR and
subsequently by the Bank's consultants, and then approved by the Bank. Once cleared, they will
be able to access ECIRP financing for immediate execution.
11



Documentation Required for Feasibility Study Proposals
27.   Proposals seeking approval to carry out feasibility studies prepared by MOWR should
include the following information:
(i)   Brief description of socio-economic conditions in the area covered;
(ii)  Rationale for community targeting and priority irrigation/drainage infrastructure
needs;
(iii)  Description of scope of the feasibility study, including envisaged types of
interventions; and
(iv)  Initial cost estimates for consultancy services for developing the feasibility study;
Supervision and Monitoring by the World Bank
28.   Given the current security conditions and the lack of World Bank field presence in Iraq,
there is a need for an innovative and flexible approach to implementation, including supervision,
monitoring, training and disbursement procedures. For this, the project will draw on the
supervision experiences of other donors operating in Iraq. World Bank monitoring and
supervision activities would be supported by three separate groups of consultants financed
through the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund to ensure compliance with fiduciary, safeguard and
technical aspect of the Bank's responsibilities. In each case, consultants would report to the
World Bank and make recommendations concerning their area of responsibility. The World
Bank would communicate the World Bank's views to the Recipient.
29.   The three groups of consultants would be:
*     The World Bank Monitoring Agent handling fiduciary matters (financial
management and procurement);
*     The World Bank Monitoring Agent handling safeguard aspects (environmental
and social);
*     World Bank consultants handling technical aspects.
30.   In the case of the Monitoring Agents, two consulting firms will be hired to handle all
projects being financed under the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund. In the case of the technical
consultants, an engineering consulting company will be hired specifically for this project. The
fiduciary Monitoring Agent will review compliance by the Recipient with the requirements of
the Grant Agreement on fiduciary matters and the detailed financial and procurement provisions
of this Technical Annex (specifically Annexes 5 & 6 of this Technical Annex). The safeguard
Monitoring Agent will ensure compliance with the Environmental and Social Screening and
Assessment Framework (ESSAF), which is included in the Working Papers to this report. The
technical consultants will help expedite and monitor project progress on behalf of the World
Bank. They will interact with staff of the Ministry responsible for project implementation, the
MOWR, and their consultants and carry out field assessments as necessary to carry out this
work. The technical consultants will report findings to the World Bank and make
recommendations. Making use of these findings and recommendations, the Bank would then
communicate the Bank's views on project related matters to the MOWR.
31.   Detailed Terms of Reference for these technical consultants are in Annex 7The scope of
work of the technical consulting company would cover:
12



*     A review of subprojects proposed by MOWR and an assessment of whether they
meet the agreed selection criteria.
*     A review of final designs of selected subprojects and bidding documents for their
execution.
*     A review of in-progress and completed sub projects to assess quality of work by
contractors and supervision by MOWR and their consultants.
*     A review of the selection of proposed feasibility studies to be conducted under the
project, TOR for these studies and the completed studies.
*     Reporting to the World Bank.
32.   During site visits, the technical consultants will examine the submitted proposals for
feasibility studies and rehabilitation subprojects according to the selection checklist described in
Annex 1.
33.   Upon its completion, the technical consultant will submit the appraisal package to the
World Bank, and inform the PMT / MOWR of the respective recommendation. The consultant
may recommend the approval or rejection of each of the individual projects, after evaluating
whether the project has followed the selection criteria adequately.
34.   The World Bank would review the proposal within 10 working days and approve or
reject the proposed package based on the consultant's recommendations and own judgment. The
World Bank may also recommend a revision of the subproject proposal and ask for re-
submission.
35.   In the event the Bank rejects the proposed rehabilitation subproject, it may consider
including the rejected proposal under the feasibility study development process and provide
approval accordingly. The World Bank will inform the PMT of its decision and advise. on the
procurement arrangements for consultant services to develop a full feasibility/project preparation
study.
Subproject/Feasibility Study Completion and Evaluation
36.   A Committee of Senior Engineers from the MOWR will be responsible for Quality
Control and Quality Assurance of subprojects and feasibility studies and verify the satisfactory
completion of the works and quantities and consultants. A contract close-out checklist will be
prepared by the Resident Engineer / Designated Official and the Project Coordinator and a copy
of this will be sent to the appropriate authority to effect final payment to the contractor and
supplier and/or consultant. The Resident Engineer / Designated Official shall provide a
Certificate of Satisfactory Work Performed.
Training and Technical Assistance
37.   If conditions permit, training will be made available to: (i) PMT and other staff of the
MOWR; and (ii) representatives of local governments and communities. The Project
Coordinator, supported by the PMT and PMT consultants, will be responsible for identifying
13



training needs and processing requests for training. Training programs for MOWR project staff
will be provided to the MOWR to strengthen capacity in technical, project management and
fiduciary skills, including environmental and social safeguards. With regard to training of
individuals from local governments and communities (who are not staff of the PMT/MOWR) the
PMT will be responsible for identifying training and further TA needs and ascertaining the
willingness on the part of communities to receive training or technical assistance. Training
activities for local communities and governments will be implemented and funded under the
ECIRP as part of the individual subprojects.
38.   The proposed implementation timetable for the project is as follows:
Implementation Timetable
ACTIVITY                  YEAR 1                        YEAR 2
1 Appointment of PMT Staff
2 Recruitment of T.A. for PMT   _
3 Multi-Purpose Buildings
4 Purchase 8 Vehicles               -
5 Purchase Fumiture
6 Office/Comms Equipment
7 3 Irrigation Subprojects
8 Wells in Sulaymaniyah                       *
9 Subproject Group
10 Subproject Group                   .
11 Subproject Group
12 Feasibility Studies                 __
13 Audits
Subproject Operation and Maintenance
39.   The longstanding tradition in Iraq of centralized service provision has tended to create a
dependency mentality, with the result that community-based organizations are weak or non-
existent. Furthermore, NGOs are entirely absent, and there is an absence of informal interface
between the rigid state structure and the communities. Consequently, there is only a limited
history of user associations and the collection of tariffs, which traditionally ensure a sense of
ownership and contributes to the ongoing operation and maintenance of the installed works.
40.   Securing an adequate level of operation and maintenance is essential for the long-term
sustainability of the works. Accordingly, the project will make every effort to develop local
support systems, which will assist the beneficiary communities in achieving this objective. The
project will also encourage the MOWR Regional Directorates to play a more active role in
14



providing technical assistance and resources. As NGOs develop (and there is already evidence
that this is occurring), they will also be encouraged to engage with the communities to establish
user associations leading to greater self-sustainability.
15



D.    PROCUREMENT
Types of Procurement
41.   Procurement for this project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement.
42.   The general description of various items under different expenditure categories are
described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods are specified in the Procurement Arrangement (PA)
(Annex 5). The PA will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.
43.   Procurement of Works: The procurement will be done using a National Standard
Bidding Document (SBD) satisfactory to the World Bank. Smaller works will be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded to the lowest bidder with requisite experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully on basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
44.   Procurement of Goods: The procurement will be done using the National SBD
satisfactory to the Bank. Shopping will be used as depicted in the procurement arrangement.
Selection of Consultants:
45.   Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Implementing Agency Capacity Building
46.   The project will support the training of one MOWR./PMT procurement staff for an
estimated duration of 6 weeks in two cycles of 3 weeks each.
Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
47.   Procurement activities will be carried out by the MOWR through a Procurement Officer
within the PMT who will be guided by a procurement management consultant throughout project
implementation.
48.   The overall project risk for procurement is high. Most of the risks concerning
procurement have been identified in a procurement capacity assessment carried out by the Bank
in August 2003 and include:
16



(i)   The lack of good laws and regulations, of modem standard documentation, and
the habits acquired by procurement staff in the previous era, which will take time
to be changed;
(ii)  Weakness of procurement staff in procurement using Bank procurement
guidelines and international sound procurement practice; and
(iii)  Inability of Bank procurement staff to supervise the project in the field.
49.   The corrective measures, which have been agreed, are:
(i)   A procurement officer will be hired to be part of the PMT in the MOWR (see
draft Terms of Reference for this position in Annex 4)
(ii)  An international procurement management firm will be recruited to assist the
PMT in procurement, train the ministries staff on procurement and construction
management, establish a procurement monitoring and reporting system and
conduct spot physical inspections
(iii)  A decree to be issued by the MOWR to rectify the critical shortcomings in the
current procurement practice.
17



E.    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
50.   The proposed grant will be disbursed to rehabilitate small-scale irrigation,
drainage, water supply and sanitation subprojects costing around US$300,000 to
US$1,000,000 each and to finance feasibility studies costing US$300,000 or less each.
The MOWR will implement the project activities over a period of two years.
Disbursements
51.   The Bank's strategy in Iraq is to ensure Iraqi ownership and strengthen
institutional capacity by financing operations that are implemented by Iraqi ministries
and other recipient entities. Trained Project Management Teams (PMTs) will facilitate
implementation and help ensure compliance with fiduciary and other safeguards. PMTs
will be employed and paid by the implementing entity at regular salary levels, thereby
avoiding the disadvantages of stand-alone Project Implementation Units that can erode
civil service institutional capacity over the medium and long term.
52.   The project will finance specialized technical support in procurement, financial
management, and other areas as needed. In additicn, to ensure that project funds are used
for the purposes intended and to help carry out project supervision, the World Bank will
employ two independent firms as Fiduciary and Safeguards Monitoring Agents.
53.   As a further compensating control, disbursements will be made primarily by
direct payment by the Bank to the contractors, consultants, and vendors. Once authorized
by the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR), direct payments will be made by the
World Bank directly into the account of the contractor, consultant, or vendor in a
commercial bank capable of receiving funds transferred from the international banking
system.
54.   The project management component and payments below the threshold of
$10,000 normally will be made through payments by the Recipient from its own
resources. These payments made from the Recipient's own resources will be reimbursed,
on a periodic basis, by the World Bank to the MOWR upon presentation of relevant
supporting documents, proof of payment, and a signed withdrawal application. The PMT
and the main financial counterparts from the MOWR will be subject to intensive training
in the Bank's disbursement procedures.
Financial Management
55.   Bank policies require that Grant proceeds be used only for the purposes for which
they were granted, with due regard to economy and efficiency, and the sustainable
achievement of the project's development objectives. The Recipient, MOWR, is required
in this regard to cause the PMT to maintain an appropriate and adequate financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements
18



adequate to separately reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures of the project.
The grant Agreement also commits the recipient to have financial statements of the
project audited for each fiscal year by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank
following internationally accepted standards.
Financial Management Risk Assessment
56.   The financial management risk associated with this operation is considered high.
Critical risk factors are: (i) ongoing insecurity, which prevents on-site Bank supervision
and assessments, including financial management assessments; (ii) the Bank's limited
knowledge of Iraq's public financial management systems, controls, and procedures; (iii)
the limited knowledge on the part of Iraqi authorities of Bank policies and guidelines; (iv)
MOWR making available on a timely basis financial resources to honor payments below
the value of $10,000; (v) difficult communication and flow of information between
worksites and the PMT, which could delay payments; (vi) inefficiencies in Iraq's banking
system that delay payments and transfer of funds to contractors, suppliers, or MOWR;
and (vii) variation orders that may exceed price contingencies and difficulty may be
encountered in verifying justification for variation orders. Although the project design
mitigates to the extent possible these risks, the project will require close monitoring and
supervision during implementation.
57.   Additional risk arises from the fact that only part of sub-projects have been
identified- total amount of US$2.5 million out of the allocated US$10 million. These sub-
projects should be identified and assessed for eligibility according to the set criteria and
yet implemented within the two years project period. In addition, the new sub-projects
may be in remote areas which may further delay the implementation process. A detailed
financial management risk assessment is in Annex 6.
58.   The control risks will be mitigated by putting in place additional controls and
procedures including: (a) the PMT will verify and authorize payments under the project
and verify justification for variation orders; (b) the PMT will maintain accounting system
for the project and retain project's records and supporting documents; (c) a qualified
financial manager will be appointed for the PMT financed under the Grant, and the PMT
will be assigned a competent financial officer and finance assistant from MOWR who
will be supported by a financial management consultant; (d) the Minister will designate
an internal auditor from the internal audit department of MOWR to track and verify the
project financial transactions; (e) disbursements by the Bank will be made primarily by
direct payments and on reimbursement basis supported by full documentation; (f) the
Fiduciary Monitoring Agent will review project expenditures and Withdrawal
Applications; (g) the internal audit department at MOWR will maintain ledger account
for each contract to track all payments made against each contract and avoid
overpayment; and (h) close control will be exercised on all project documents and
payment supporting documents at the PMT.
59.   The accounting and reporting risks will be managed by putting in place a simple
computerized system using spreadsheet applications, capable of recording all project
19



expenditures, tracking project commitments in real time during the implementation
period, and providing the data needed for the generation of project reports, including the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR).
60.   An external independent auditor with international experience will be engaged to
perform the project audits and issue an independent opinion on the project financial
statements. The external audit report will encompass all project activities and will be in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. The audit report along with
the related financial statements should be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each of the project fiscal years.
61.   All the above activities and procedures will be documented within a chapter of the
project implementation plan, which will be line with the Master Implementation Manual.
F.    MONITORING, REPORTING AND AUDITING
Monitoring and Evaluation System
62.   As the project team had limited access to data in Iraq, and was also constrained by
the travel restrictions, the project design has envisaged a programmatic learning-by-doing
approach. The first phase of project implementation will finance subprojects that fulfill
the project appraisal criteria agreed with the Iraqi delegation at negotiations. These
subprojects will be reviewed by the Bank's consultant for the project (already procured)
and by the project task team. With improved access to information during project
implementation, key elements of the appraisal criteria will be reviewed and modified if
necessary during supervision missions.
63.   The key outputs/outcomes monitored will be the following:
* Improved, sustainable services from rehabilitated water infrastructure (for rural
water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage services);
* Generation of employment and income by project activities;
* Availability of adequate pipeline of financeable subprojects through completed
feasibility studies, preliminary design and bidding documents;
* Community ownership of subprojects, to the extent possible under the
circumstances; and
* Due regard to environmental sustainability.
64.   The key performance indicators to measure outputs/outcomes related to project
milestones are:
1.    Economic Viability and Financial Sustainability
20



(a)   Unit cost per hectare (for irrigation and drainage subprojects).
(b)   Unit cost per consumer (for rural water supply subprojects).
(c)   Percentage of secured/recovered operation and maintenance costs.
2.    Reliability and Efficiency
(a)   Interruptions to service.
(b)   User satisfaction through independent surveys.
(c)   Irrigation conveyance/distribution and use (or application) efficiencies.
3.    Job Creation/Income
(a)   Incremental employment generated by the project.
(b)   Growth in income attributed to the project.
4.    Project Pipeline
(a)   Number of subprojects with completed feasibility studies and bidding
documents.
(b)   Improved project cycle procedures and efficient project-cycle timeline.
5.    Community Participation
(a)   Level of organization of the community to mobilize and undertake specific
subproject activities.
(c)   Contributions of community (leaders) through labor, cash and materials to
the subprojects.
6.    Environmental Sustainability
(a)   Reduction in water logged acreage.
(b)   Reduction in water and soil salinity concentration in particles per million.
65.   The key input indicators will be monitored through a Management Information
System (MIS) that will monitor the progress in project processing, procurement actions
and financial management. Through the MIS, Monitoring and Evaluation functions will
be performed by the PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants, thus providing the inputs
needed (see table below) for the World Bank Consultant Team to undertake effective
supervision. Performance indicators agreed with the Iraqi delegation during technical
discussions will form the basis of monitoring project implementation. During the project
preparation phase the baseline data will be obtained. The Iraqi consultant teams from the
PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants will be provided with digital video-recorders, so
that community consultation processes can be monitored by the TA consultants and Bank
staff/consultants.
The framework for output monitoring would be as follows:
21
I



Feasibility Study
Outcomes                Indicatofirs              BlinZ                    Targets
(Check wfh intemational
norms where avallabte)
Water Supply Norms:
Piped system
$87.50/capita
Standpost $15/capita
Sanitation Norms:
Piped $137.50/capita
Rural $10/capita
For economic viability and             Irrigation & drainage
For economilc vLiability and                     Norms (off-farm):
financial sustainability:                        Capital costs at $500/ha
*   Unit cost per hectare                        for rehabilitation and
(for irrigation and                            $1,000/ha for
drainage subprojects)                          modernization;
O&M costs $10-
*   Unit cost per                                S40/ha/year
consumer (for rural   To be collected during
water supply          Iraqi consultant field   Cost Recovery Norms in
subprojects)          visits, and validated Ink the  Water Supply and in
*   Percentage of O&M    World Bank Consultants  Irrigation:
1. Communities receive     costs secured/ recovered  for subprojects presented  Exploration of methods for
improved, sustainable                         by the MOWR during       the recovery of O&M
services                                      appraisal.               costs
For reliability and      For the studies component,
efficiency:             these will be collected as a  User Satisfaction:
.   Interruptions to     part of preparation     Independent survey
service                                        indicate that nmajonty users
are satisfied with service
*   User satisfaction
through independent                            Irrigation/Drainage
surveys                                        Efficiency Norms:
*   Irrigation conveyance                        Conveyance/distribution
and use efficiencies                           Irrigionc use efi
Irrgation use effciency:
70% and 90-95% for flood
and modem technologies
respectively.
Coverage Targets
Video-Record of
community consultation
process
22



Feasibility Study
Outcomes                  Imndcatoma               Baaefnes                   Targets
(Check with intemational
norms where available)
Job creation/income:
*   Incremental                                    Job creation estimates
2. Jobs and Income are      employment generated
Generated                by project (person days)                         Estimated income
generation potentials
* Growth in income
attributed to project
Project pipeline
*   Number of projects with
completed Feasibility                            A demonstration of
3. Pipeline of Project      Studies easbiddit                                enhanced MoWR capacity
Proposals are                  and biddingto fulfill the project cycle
Generated                                                                 in accordance with Bank
*   Improved project cycle                         guidelnes
procedures and efficient  To be collected during
project-cycle timeline  Iraqi consultant field
visits, and validated by the
World Bank Consultants
for subprojects presented
Community participation:  by the delegation.       Enhanced capacity and
*   Level of organization of  For the studies component,  demonstrated willingness
community to mobilize  these will be collected as a  at regional / local levels to
and undertake specific  part of preparation      implement / oversee,
4. Community                subproject activities                            Monitoring and
Participation Takes    *   Contributions of                               Evaluation, maintain, and
Place                    community (leaders)                              cost-share (at least the
through labor, cash and                          Operation and
materials in the                                 Maintenance portion) rural
subprojects                                      infrastructure.
Estimated reductions in
Environmental sustainability:                      salinity and water logging
5. Environmental              Reduction in water                             Water and soil salinity
Sustainability           logged acreage                                   norm:
Maintained             *  Reduction in water and                          150-500 ppm in irrigation
soil salinity concentration                      canals and farmer fields
in ppm                                           and 650-1000 ppm in
drains
23



Reporting Requirements
66.   The following arrangements were agreed at negotiations:
(i)   Monthly Statements
The MOWR/PMT will be responsible for maintaining control of accounting information
and keeping all supporting documentation required by normal accounting practices for
payments. The Project Coordinator will prepare monthly financial information on: (i) the
amount of resources disbursed to rehabilitation subprojects or feasibility studies; (ii)
incremental operating costs; and (iii) status of replenishment and resources remaining for
upcoming activities.
(ii)  Monthly and Quarterly Report
The PMT will prepare monthly reports on each rehabilitation subproject and feasibility
study for the first six months of project effectiveness, and thereafter Quarterly Reports.
Such reports will be submitted to the MOWR and the World Bank no later than two
weeks after the end of the respective month or quarter. The reports will contain a
summary of activities, progress made since previous reports, problems encountered, and
steps taken to overcome difficulties, and information related to key monitoring indicators.
Key features of the report are provided in Section V of Annex 6.
Reuortins To Donors
The Bank will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the fands
deposited by the donors with the Bank under the ITF. Within ninety (90) days of the end
of each quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31), the Bank will
prepare, on a cash basis, an unaudited statements of receipts, disbursements, and fund
balance with respect to the ITF and forward a copy to each donor. Each such statement
will be expressed in United States Dollars, the currency in which the ITF funds will be
maintained by the Bank. In addition, within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the
completion of all disbursements relating to activities financed from the ITF, the Bank will
prepare on a cash basis an unaudited financial statement of receipts, disbursements, and
fund balance with respect to the ITF and forward a copy to each donor.
The Bank will furnish to the donors:
a.    On a semi-annual basis, a consolidated report describing the operations of
the ITF (including contributions, disbursements, and implementation
progress) in the preceding six months; and
b.    On an annual basis, a management assertion, together with an attestation
from the Bank's external auditors, concerning the adequacy of internal
control over cash-based financial reporting for trust funds as a whole.
24



Auditing
67.   The project will have three types of audits: Financial Audit, Technical Review,
and Procurement Audit. At least one independent financial audit will be conducted
annually by qualified independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, within six months of
the closing of accounts. Technical reviews will be performed regularly in accordance
with agreed terms of reference.
25



G.     RISKS
68.    This project is being undertaken in an uncertain and risky environment. The table
below summarizes the key project risks identified and indicates measures which are being
taken to mitigate these risks. The major risk for the project is the inability of the MOWR
to complete the rehabilitation activities on time because of security issues. Additional
risks for financial management issues are detailed in Annex 6. The project has also been
rated as Category B and therefore safeguard measures have been put in place (see
Working Papers for the environmental and social screening and assessment framework).
RISK                     RATING             MITIGATION MEASURES
MOWR has assigned a senior engineer to be
responsible for providing guidance and to
Contractors may not understand or comply with        monitor contractors. All MOWR-PMT
environmental safeguards measures in their   M       members have received training in WB
contracts or the code of practice                    safeguards and will provide training to MOWR
staff who supervise subprojects in the
governorates
Capacity-building activities will focus on local
Difficulty in hiring international TA                staff. Where possible, support from
consultants where local expertise is lacking  S      international TA will be provided through
virtual intemet meetings and physical meetings
in Amman, Jordan
The project design has been developed for a
programmatic approach which will allow new
MOWR is unable to develop adequate                   subprojects to be identified, appraised, and
subprojects in a timely manner for           S       incorporated in to the ongoing work program.
implementation under the project                     Also, the design provides for the development
of a pipeline of new subprojects through a
feasibility and preparation component
A consultant firm (already recruited) will be
contracted to assist in providing supervision in-
country on behalf of the Bank. They will be
The Bank's inability to carry out in-country         equipped with digital and video cameras to
supervision due to the difficulty of access  S       provide continuous visual images of their
findings. Two international firms will be
employed by the Bank as Monitoring Agents to
help the Bank supervise and monitor adherence
to the Bank's fiduciary/safeguard requirements.
Transition from the Interim Govermnent to an
elected Iraqi administration may have unknown  H     Keeping the project simple. Working closely
outcomes that could affect implementation            with MOWR officials to ensure ownership.
Administration changes in MOWR possibly              Building relationships at the technical level
jeopardizing current commitment to project   H       with current officials to ensure continuity in the
design and inputs                                    event of changes
Sectoral priorities are difficult to establish in    Ongoing communication with Bank
the current political setting and may be subject     counterparts working with Ministries of
to changes and/or disagreements between              Finance and Planning and other related
MOWR and other controlling agencies                  agencies
26



Annex 1
SUBPROJECT PROPOSAL - APPRAISAL CHECKLIST
Parts A and B                 REHABILITATION WORKS
I   BASIC PROJECT INFORMATION
1    Project Number
2    Location (Governorate and Municipality)
3    Project Name
4    Description
5    Estimated Number of Beneficiaries
Supervising Cost Estimate
6    Construction Cost Estimate
Total Cost Estimate
II   TECHNICAL CRITERIA
[]Low
1    Potential Development Impact             [ Medium
[]High
2    Availability of Land                     [ Yes
[] No
[ Locally Made
3    Availability of Materials                []Available in Iraq
_] Not available in Iraq (list which materials):
4    Accessibility to work site               [Completely accessible
[ Potential problems (explain):
[ISafe
5    Security Situation?                      []At risk
[ No-Go Zone
[ Designs/Sketches available and attached
Availability and satisfaction of technical  []Designs/Sketches NOT available
6    designs or sketches                      [ Design /sketches satisfactory for construction
[ Design/sketches NOT satisfactory
(Explain needed additions or changes)
[]Specifications Available and Attached
[]Specifications NOT Available
7    Availability and satisfaction of specifications  [ Specifications satisfactory for construction
[ I-Specifications-NOT satisfactory
(Explain needed additions or changes)
8    Project is Technically Feasible?         I YEs
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____   []N o   (Explain  in  Point  9)
9    The following technical changes should be
made to make the subproject feasible:
III  ECONOMIC VIABILITY and FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY CRITERIA
[ I Less than 10%
1    Estimated Labor Content as a percentage of  []10-19%
the total subproject cost                 []20-30%
[ Over 30% (Specify)
27



2    Estimated Person-Days of Employment
3    Estimated cost per beneficiary / hectare
Cost per person-day of employment       [ Under US$2 / day
4                                           [enraedUS$2 - US$4 I day
generated                               [lAbove US$4 / day
Estimated incremental benefits in terms of
5    irrigation services / water supply services  US$
(estimated CapitaVOutput ratio)         C/O Ratio
6    Demonstrated predisposition to form and  [ Yes
6   strengthen water user associations      [ No (Explain in Point 9)
Demonstrated predisposition to undertake  Yes
7   Operation and Maintenance and secure    [ YEs
appropriate funding.          []~No (Explain in Point 9)
8    Project is Economically Viable and financially  [ ]Yes
sustainable?                            [ No (Explain in Point 9)
9   The following changes should be made to
make the subproject viable:
IV   SOCIAL CRITERIA
How was the community involved in t]he  [Open community meeting. Date of meeting
1   identification and prioritization of the  [ ]Signatures to a petition (attach copy)
subproject?                             [j Village Leader decided on behalf of the community
subproject? ___________________________ _  [ ] Other (specify)
[ Under 30%
2    Percentage of community in support of project  []30% to 50%
[ _  Over 50%
How were women and the poor invol.ved in  [Open community meeting. Date of meeting
3    identification and prioritization of the  [ Signatures to a petition (attach copy)
subproject?                             []Village council decided on behalf of women/poor
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _   I]O ther  (specify)
[]Yes
4    Has the community formed a project      [ No
committee?                              No. of committee representatives
No. of women on the committee
Does the subproject have a positive impact on  []Yes - How?
women and children?                     []No
Does the subproject improve the lives of the  []Yes - How?
6   poor in the village?                    []No
7    Project is Acceptable to the community?  [ Yes
[No (Explain in Point 8)
8   The following changes should be made to
make the subproject acceptable:
V    INSTITUTIONAL CRITERIA
Does the community leadership want to   [ Yes - Specify who and what kind of training
1   receive training to implement the subproject?  []No
Has a Resident Engineer been identified  []Yes - Give name:
2   within the Directorate for the subproject?  [ No
3    Has the community provided a simplified plan  [ Yes (copy should be attached)
and budget for operation and maintenance?  [ ] No
28



4    Does the community have all the necessary  [ ]Yes - (copies should be attached)
permits and licenses for the subproject?   ] No - When will they be ready?
5    Institutional Arrangements are satisfactory?  [] Yes
_____                               H~~~~~~~~~~~ No (Explain in Point 6)
6    The following changes should be made to
make institutional arrangements acceptable:
VI   ENVIRONMENTAL CRITERIA (Refer to Attachment 2 to annex 1 of the ESSAF)
Rehabilitation subprojects are not anticipated to have any major enviromnental or social impacts.
1   Zoning and Land Use Planning issueis?     [ Yes Explain triggers:
issues?    [J] Yes Explain triggers:
Zonin and  and Ue PlaningNo
2    Utilities and Facilities issues?         [Yes Explain triggers:
[INo
3    Water and Soil Contamination issues?     [ Yes Explain triggers:
Water and Soil                [1 ~No
4    Noise and Air Pollution issues?          []Yes Explain triggers:
[ ]Yes Explain triggers:
5    Hazardous Substances issues?               Yes No  lintiges
6    Fauna and Flora issues?                    Yes Explain triggers:
7    Destruction/Disruption of Land and Vegetation  [ Yes Explain triggers:
7____  issues?                                [ ] No
8    Cultural Property issues?                E]Yes Explain triggers:
issues?~~~~~ ]I Yes Explain triggers:
Cultural Property              [INo
9    Expropriation and Social issues?           Yes Explain triggers:
[ ] Yes Explain triggers:
10   Disturbance issues?                      ( l No
11   Site Related Issues?                     []Yes Explain triggers:
[1No
12   Any potential environmental improvements
resulting from the project (eg reduce salinity)
13   Minimal environmental issues?            [ Yes
_____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ __   [ N o   (Explain  in  point  14)
14   Can environmental damage be mitigated or  [ ] Yes  Explain:
minimized?                               [ No
VIl   OVERALL RECOMMENDATION
[ Approved
1    Recommendation                           [ Conditionally Approved (Explain below)
[ Rejected
2    Signature Appraisal Engineer
3    Appraisal Engineer's Name
4    Appraisal Engineer's Cornpany                              .___                        __
5    Date of field visit
29



Part C                           FEASIBILITY STUDIES
I   COLLECT BASEUNE DATA
On the demand side from users on facilities  [ Exists
1                                              [valalePartial Data
1  available                              [ ] No Data
On the supply side - inventory of existing  [1Exists
2    infrastructural assets                      Partial Data
____ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___   [1 N o   D ata
3    Baseline Data is sound                      NYeos
II   COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
Validation of community participation and consensus to the proposed subproject, inferred by the endorsement of:
1) District (Nahya") leaders; 2) Village Leaders (Mokhtars"), and 3) randomly-selected households; on the
following:
1    Ascertaining priorities                   [ Yes
[]No
2    Discussing preliminary design options     []Yes
IINo
3    Agreeing to the chosen technical option   [Y No
4                                  [1 ~~~~~~~~~Yes
4    Signed agreement                          II No
5    Community Participation confirmed?        [ Yes
III  COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS_
Determine   the   predisposition  of  the
1    community to providing contributions to the  [ eLowd
project in terms of cash, in-kind, labor and/or  [ Hedhum
monitoring and supervision                [_]__
IV   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
1    Agreement on the management of            []Yes
constructed infrastructure.               [ No
[]MOWR
2    How O&M will be managed (its planning     []Local Governorate/District
procurement, and FM)                      [ Community/User Associations
[ Unknown
[ By the MOWR
[ By the Governorate
3    How O&M will be implemented               []By the District
[]By the Community
[ ] Unknown
[ Tariffs raised through MOWR
4    Hiow 08M costs will be financed           [] Subsidies by MOWR/Governorate/District
4  ]Tariffs Raised by User Associations
_ _______________._______________[______   I]  U nknow n
30



Annex 2
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECTS ALREADY IDENTIFIED by
MOWR
(Status June 2004)
Ministry of Water Resources
Program         Subproject Title  Governorate   Municipality  Total Project Cost
Small Scale
Rehabilitation      Irrigation and    Dhi Qar      Nassariyah     $500,000
Drainage
Rehabilitation
Small Scale
Rehabilitation      Irrigation and    Rumitha     Al Muthanna     $500,000
Drainage
Rehabilil'ation
Small Scale
Rehabilitation     Irrigation and      Misan       Al Amara       $500,000
Drainage
Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of     Al
Rehabilitation       20 Kharez      Slmnyh        Slmnyh           $0,0
multipurpose Wells  uamanyh      Sulamaniyah      500,000
31



Annex 3
RESPONSIBILITY MATRIX
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, APPRAISAL & IMPLEMENTATION
ACTIVITY                                    RESPONSIBILITY
1   Subproject Identification                        I   P    N       N        P            N
2    Preliminary Project Estimate and Screening      I   P    N            P
3    Preliminary Preparation, design and drawings    P   N    E                N             N
4    Review Designs and Drawings                     R   A             R
5    Ensure consistency with government strategy     A                          A   P
6    Approval of subprojects selection                                          E       A
7    Final Technical, Economical, Enviro-Social Appraisal  P               A    A
8    Final check for subprojects documents proposal  C                          A
9    "No Objection" to proceed with subproject                                               A
10   Preparation of costs and bid documents                   E    E
11   Bid Invitation and Bid Evaluation                                               E
12   Contract Award for contractor                                                   E       A
13   Daily Site Supervision                           C                              E
14   Overall Subproject Supervision and Monitoring    C                              E
15   Preparation of certificates and claims                                          E
16   Review of claims and payment Authorization                                      E
17   Authorization of cost variation                                                 E
18   Payments                                                                        E       (E)
19   Accounting                                       A                              E
20   Monthly TechnicaVFinancial Progress Reporting    E                              E   N    N
c      E
8 8 H o IL ~~.0
, .m     .!  E    0I
0 
Responsibility Codes                        e    H5                    i
A   = Approves      N  = Notified                     c 
C   = Coordinates   P  = Provides Input               E  .              -   _   E    E 
0        E   2 
E = Executes        R    = Reviews                    8                          0
32



Annex 4
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, PROCUREMENTIDISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
AND SENIOR TECHNICAL ADVISOR
Draft Terms of Reference for the FM, Procurement / Disbursement Specialists
The Project Financial Management and the Procurement/Disbursement Specialists will
each be part of the PMT within the MOWR and be responsible respectively for
organizing and fulfilling all financial management requirements and all procurement of
services and goods during project duration
They will carry out the following duties:
I 1.  Financial Management Specialist:
(a) Prepare budgeted annual work plans;
(b) Implement a financial management system and supervise its operation;
(c) Prepare financial reports and statements requested by the Government of Iraq and
World Bank;
(d) Assist the Project Coordinator to supervise all project expenditures and ensure
that expenditures are eligible to be financed by the project funds;
(e) Maintain accounts in accordance with the project's budget lines;
(f) Manage the project budget to meet the day-to-day operating expenses of project
components;
(g) Ensure that project funds flow on a timely basis and project accounts are timely
replenished;
(h) Coordinate with the internal and external auditors and the Monitoring Agents.
2. Procurement/Disbursement Specialist:
(a) Manage all procurement matters, including obtaining clearances from MOWR
and World Bank;
(b) Prepare, implement and update the procurement plan in agreement with the
Project Coordinator and the World Bank;
(c) Establish a simplified procurement tracking system for monitoring procurement
activities;
(d) Develop and collect tender documentation for works, goods, services and other
procurement in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, including:
qualification of consultants, suppliers and contractors, preparation of short lists
for bidding and review and evaluation of bidding documents for adherence to
procurement procedures;
(e) Ensure timely disbursement of project funds for consultants, equipment
purchases, and other project-related expenditures in accordance with procurement
and disbursement guidelines;
(f) Ensure timely preparation of withdrawal applications to the World Bank;
(g) Inspect goods together with the PMT to ensure compliance with specification, and
ensure prompt delivery of goods to beneficiaries.
33



Qualifications and Experience Requiredfor Each Candidate:
Financial management specialist:
(c)   University degree in Accounting. Additional professional certification in
accounting (CPA, CMA) is highly desirable.
(d)   A minimum of 5 years of work experience in procurement, accounting,
and financial management. Experience with international organizations
preferred;
(e)   Relevant computer skills including Excel; and
(f)   Fluency in written and spoken Arabic and proficiency in written and
spoken English.
Procurement Specialist/Disbursement
a) University degree in business administration or related discipline.
Professional designation or training in procurement are highly desirable.
b) Five years experience in procurement position. Exposure to International
organizations procurement guidelines is highly desirable
c) Relevant computer skills including Excel; and
d) Fluency in written and spoken Arabic and English
34



Draft Terms of Reference for the Senior Technical Advisor
The Senior Technical Advisor will assist the PMT/MOWR in achieving the stated
objective of the project over a period of two years. His/her role will two-fold:
(1) He/she will transfer state-of-the-art knowledge on the planning, construction, and
management of modern irrigation and drainage networks.
(2) He/she will assist the Project Coordinator in the management of the overall
project with the major role of introducing appropriate new skills and management
systems.
The Senior Technical Advisor shall perform the following functions:
(1) Ensure the transfer of skills and assist the PMT/MOWR in the development of
essential skills and in the coordination and implementation of irrigation and
drainage management;
(2) Supervise, coordinate and assist with the initiation and implementation of all
consultancies for the subprojects and feasibility studies;
(3) Assist with the appraisal of the technical feasibility and social acceptability of
selected small-scale irrigation rehabilitation projects and with the initiation of any
new feasibility study proDosals;
(4) Assist in the design and implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation Plans and
scientific surveys;
(5) Ensuring that the PMT and PMT-hired consultants will work closely with the
World Bank consultants to fulfill the below-enumerated generic ToRs for the FSs
preparation, towards ensuring a participatory and bottom-up preparation of the
pipeline subprojects;
(6) Others to be identified.
Qualifications and Experience Required:
(1) Ph.D. or M.S. in civil engineering, natural resources management, agriculture or
related areas;
(2) Strong technical and managerial experience as demonstrated by 10 years of prior
work experience in the field irrigation and drainage management;
(3) Demonstrated ability to work effectively with public and private sectors including
communities under challenging conditions, such as post-conflict situations,
(4) Fluency in English with strong written and oral communication skills and
working knowledge of Arabic a strong advantage.
35



Generic ToRs for Ensuring a Participatory/Bottom-Up Preparation of
Feasibility Studies
1. Collection of baseline data from the subproject community - both on the demand
side from users on facilities available and on the supply side (inventory of existing
infrastructural assets).
2. Validation of community participation and consensus to the proposed subproject,
inferred by the endorsement of: 1) District/"Nahya" Leaders 2) Village Leaders
("Mokhtars"), and 3) independent household surveys, on the following:
(a) Ascertaining priorities
(b) Discussing preliminary design options
(c) Agreeing to chosen technical option
(d) Signed agreement.
3. Definition of community participation for preparation in terms of cash, in-kind and
labor contributions.
4. Agreement on the management of constructed infrastructure. If it is RWSS or
irrigation on how O&M will be managed (by community, by local contractor) and
how O&M costs will be financed.
5. Presentation of the final Feasibility Study (including preliminary design) to
community for its agreement
6. Review milestones on the basis of which payments (i.e lump sum contract) will be
made:
(a) At mobilization
(b) Rapid Feasibility Study completion
(c) Validation of community consent to the selected institutional and technical
option
(d) Completion of Feasibility Study and Preliminary Design
36



Annex 5
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS / PROCUREMENT PLAN
General
1.    Project information:
Country:           Iraq
Borrower:          Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR)
Project Name:      Emergency Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (ECIRP)
Grant No.:         .................
Grant Amount:      .........................................
Project Implementing Agency (PIA): Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR)
2.    Bank's approval Date of the procurement Plan: Original: ......
Revised .....
3.    Date of General Procurement Notice:.
4.    Period covered by this procurement plan: Initial 18 months
Goods and Works and Non-Consulting Services.
1.    Prior Review Thresholds: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by
the Bank as stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:
Procurement Method        Prior ReAiew Threshold     Comments
1.  ICB and LIB (Goods)            All
2.  NCB (Goods)                     >= US$150,000
3.  ICB (Works)                     > US$500,000
4.  NCB (Works)                     >= US$300,000 and first
three contracts irrespective of
the value
5.  Shopping (goods and works)      First three contracts
6.  Direct contracting              All
2.    Prequalification. The anticipated size of civil works contracts would not require
prequalification.
3.    Proposed Procedures for CDD Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the
Guidelines): The project does not include demand driven components complying with
the criteria set forth for CDD operations.
4.    Reference to (if any) Project Operational/Procurement Manual: The Project
Management Team (PMT) will implement the project in accordance with the Operations
Manual agreed with the implementing agencies. The Operations Manual will be reviewed
37



and amended, if required, in compliance with the Master Implementation Manual under
preparation by the Bank for Iraq.
5.     Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements:
No advance procurement is foreseen at this time.
6.      Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule
The ECIRP will include mainly small scale-irrigation and drainage rehabilitation (SSID)
projects under the MOWR, but may also include rural water supply and sanitation works.
At the time of project appraisal, information was available for only five subprojects listed
below. Additional subprojects will be identified and prepared in compliance with the
eligibility criteria detailed in the Operations Manual. By design, no subproject should
exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent, therefore no ICB contracts are anticipated at this time.
Goods and works not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. This method is based on the
comparison of price quotations obtained from several suppliers (for goods) or from
several contractors (for works), with a minimum of three, to assure competitive prices, as
detailed in Para 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Contract                     Proc.    Prequal.   Domestic        Review        Expected
lDescription)     Est. Cost   Method    Pyes/no;  Preference      by Bank      Bid-Opening
Method  ~yeslno)  (yes/no)   (Prior/Post)      Date
6 months after
Al Muthanna - SSID    500,000      NCB       No          No            Prior      effective date
(e.d.)
Al Amara - SSID     500,000      NCB        No         No            Prior         6 months
<:   Nassariyah - SSID  500,000   NCB       No          No            Prior        6 months
CL ssanyah - SSID    500,000      NOB        No         No            Prior        after e.d.
Sulaymaniyah 2 -     500,000     NCB        No          No            Prior        9 months
SSID                      _____after e.d.
Sulaymaniyah 2 -           89Shopping       No          No           Prior         9 months
SSID        50,00       NO         NoN                        ro           fter e.d.
Multi-purpose rural  50,000 8   Shopping     No          No        Prior (if one of  4 months after
buildings                                                      first three)       e.d.
Fucomrnunicature  4,000 *8  Shopping     No         No        Prior (if one of  6 months after
Fequiprniture    5,first three)                                                   e.d.
Office &*             ShppngPrior (if one of                            6 months after
communication       4,000 8     hpig        No         No          first three)      e.d.
equipment
tL                                      Shopping
Vehicles        18,000 8     (2 per      No         No        Prior (if one of  5 months after
(8 pick-up AWD)                 contract                           first three)      e.d.
max.)
Subprojects                                                      LieyPir       12 months after
(to be IdentifIed)  3,000,000    NCB        No         No         (depending on  1m    df
im                                                                         sliced size)
I-         Subprojects                                                      Likely Prior  15 months after
X        (to be Identified)  3,000,000    NCB        No         No        (depending on    em  df
<C                                                       af~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~siced size)ed
Subprojects       3,000,000    NCo No                                          18 months after
(to be Identifed)   3(depending on                                                   e.d.
No_ __ _ __ _ __ _  _    sliced size)
38



Selection of Consultants
Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated
in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:
Selection Method                Prior Review Threshold            Comments
Competitive Methods (Firms)                 >= US$100,000
Single Source (Firms)                             All
Individual Consultants                       >= US$30,000
Single Source (Individual)                        All
Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for
services, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: Advance procurement of international
consulting services for procurement assistance for the PMT.
Selection Methods and Time Schedule: The following consultancy assignments with
respective selection methods and time schedule are envisaged.
Description of  Estimated    Selecdon    Reiew by Bank     Expected         Comments
Assigument       Cost       Method       (Prior I Post)   Proposals
('0005s                                   Submission
.________________  ______________________   D ate
Int. firm with mostly local
TA to PMT       1,700        QCBS           Prior        l1l/15/2004   staff. Services to extend
for 24 months with
l____________ .________________               declining  staff as needed.
Feasibility
Studies       1,500 * 4    QCBS            Prior        06/02/2005      Slice & package
(Lots 1, 2, 3, 4)
Financial Audit   75           CQ             Post          04/21/05
Implementing Agency Capacity Building Activities with Time Schedule:
The table below lists the tentatively agreed capacity building activities with time
schedule.
Expecled outcome /          Estimated    Estimated    Start Date    Commenis
Actiriv Description            Cost       Duration
Training of one MOWR/PMT          16,000    2 cycles of 3  A
procurement staff                         weeks      ugust 2004
39



Annex 6
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
I.    Summary
Under the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund, the MOWR, as the implementing agency, is the
Grant Recipient. The Grant financial resources will be managed by the MOWR within
the framework of the MOWR financial management system and additional World Bank
procurement and financial management procedures. The Grant funds will be made
available to the MOWR who will enter into contractual agreements with contractors,
consultants and suppliers for the rehabilitation and construction of activities financed
under the project.
In view of the current security situation it has not been possible for WB staff to travel to
Iraq. In lieu of this, the MOWR financial management assessment was carried out by a
regional consulting firm. The assessment covered the current financial management
system at the MOWR in order to identify the risks associated with the control
environment, the accounting, reporting and auditing procedures in place and proposed
actions to reduce and manage such risks. This assessment showed that the systems in
place at MOWR are based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework
and operational decrees applicable to the public sector in Iraq. These procedures prepare
reports based on budget line expenditures and include several layers of routine
authorization controls. The assessment described the organization structure of the
MOWR, the accounting system used, reporting, the internal control procedures, and
payments control mechanisms. The assessment showed various weaknesses in the control
system and control environment'. Accordingly, the Bank will introduce additional control
measures to the project.- The financial management assessment project files include a
copy of the assessment documentation.
H.    Financial Management Risk Assessment
The financial management risk associated with this operation is considered high. Critical
risk factors are: (i) ongoing insecurity, which prevents on-site Bank supervision and
assessments, including financial management assessments; (ii) the Bank's limited
knowledge of Iraq's public financial management systems, controls, and procedures; (iii)
the limited knowledge on the part of Iraqi authorities of Bank policies and guidelines;
(iv) the possibility of MOWR not making available on a timely basis financial resources
to honor payments below the value of $10,000; (v) difficult communication and flow of
information between worksites and the PMT due to large number of areas, which could
delay payments; (vi) inefficiencies in Iraq's banking system that delay payments and
transfer of funds to contractors, suppliers, or MOVWR; (vii) variation orders that may
exceed price contingencies and difficulty may be encountered in verifying justification
for variation orders, and (viii) . Although the project design mitigates to the extent
1 Special purpose audit on five ministries conducted by qualified audit firm revealed several irregular
transactions and breaches of the control system of those ministries.
40



possible these risks, the project will require close monitoring and supervision during
implementation. A detailed risk assessment is in Section VII.
III. Risk Mitigation Measures
The overall high risk will be partially mitigated by putting in place additional controls
and procedures.
The control risk will be partially mitigated by putting in place additional controls and
procedures, including: (a) the PMT will verify and authorize payments under the project
and will verify justification for variation orders; (b) the PMT will maintain accounting
system for the project and retain project's records and supporting documents, (c) a
qualified financial manager will be appointed for the PMT financed under the Grant, and
the PMT will be assigned a competent financial officer and finance assistant from
MOWR who will be supported by a financial management consultant; (d) the Minister
will designate an internal auditor from the internal audit department of MOWR to track
and verify the project financial transactions; (e) disbursements by the Bank will be made
primarily by direct payments and on reimbursement basis supported by full
documentation; (f) the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent will review project expenditures and
Withdrawal Applications; (g) the internal audit department at MOWR will maintain
ledger account for each contract to track all payments made against each contract and
avoid overpayment; and (h) close control will be exercised on all project documents and
payment supporting documents at the PMT.
The accounting and reporting risks will be managed by putting in place a simple
computerized system using spreadsheet applications, capable of recording all project
expenditures, tracking project commitments in real time during the implementation
period, and providing the data needed for the generation of project reports, including the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR).
All the above activities and procedures will be documented in a chapter of the project
implementation plan and will be in line with the Master Implementation Manual
IV.   Financial Management Arrangements.
Flow of Information. As per current control regulations all invoices, or work orders will
be signed and approved by the local technical implementation units in the districts and
will be remitted to PMT for payment under cover letter signed by the manager of the unit.
Contracting and payment processes will be centralized at the PMT level. The PMT will
verify all claims and will maintain up-to-date invoices register and general ledger to
record all payments incurred. The MOWR internal auditor designated to the project by
the Minister will perform ex-ante checking to all financial transactions.
Financial Management Procedures. The project procedures and the parallel accounting
system that are managed by the PMT will be detailed in the project implementation plan
in order to define the relation between all stakeholders involved with the project
implementation and facilitate the flow of project information.
41



V.    Project Reports
Project reports should be remitted to the Bank following the agreed format and
frequency. The proposed format of the reports is in the project files and was agreed upon
with the MOWR representatives during negotiations.
Ouarterly Reports: The MOWR will generate Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and
submit them to the Bank as part of the project progress report, or separately, within 45
days from the end of the quarter. These FMRs include two sections:
* Financial Reports will include a cash flow statement, beginning and ending
project cash balances and an expenditure report by activity or contract comparing
actual and planned expenditures. Also, a narrative report explaining major
variances when compared to plan and the proposed corrective actions should be
included as an annex to the financial reports.
* Contracts Reports will include information on the major rehabilitation and
construction contracts, showing contract financial status against plan, including
information on all authorized contract variations.
These reports should be remitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end of the period.
The proposed format of the reports is in the project files and will be agreed upon with the
MOWR representatives during negotiations.
Annual Reports: Audited Project Financial Statements that will be submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year, include:
1. Statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating funds received and
expenditures.
2. Appropriate schedules classifying project activities, showing cumulative balances.
3. Statement of payments made using SOEs procedures, if allowed later by the
Bank, as defined in the legal agreement.
ReDortiniE To Donors: The Bank will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in
respect of the funds deposited by the donors with the Bank under the ITF. Within ninety
(90) days of the end of each quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December
31), the Bank will prepare, on a cash basis, an unaudited statements of receipts,
disbursements, and fund balance with respect to the ITF and forward a copy to each
donor. Each such statement will be expressed in United States Dollars, the currency in
which the ITF funds will be maintained by the Bank. In addition, within one hundred and
eighty (180) days of the completion of all disbursements relating to activities financed
from the ITF, the Bank will prepare on a cash basis an unaudited financial statement of
receipts, disbursements, and fund balance with respect to the ITF and forward a copy to
each donor.
The Bank will furnish to the donors:
a.    On a semi-annual basis, a consolidated report describing the operations of
the ITF (including contributions, disbursements, and implementation
progress) in the preceding six months; and
42



b.    On an annual basis, a management assertion, together with an attestation
from the Bank's external auditors, concerning the adequacy of internal
control over cash-based financial reporting for trust funds as a whole.
VI.   Auditing Arrangements
An external independent auditor with international experience will be engaged to perform
the project audit and issue an independent opinion on the project financial statements.
The external audit report will encompass all of the Project's activities and will be
presented in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. MOWR will
remit a project audit report to the Bank not later than six months after year end. The
auditor selection process will be launched directly after the Grant Agreement is signed. In
addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter" identifying
any observations, comments, and deficiencies in the system and controls that the auditor
considers pertinent, and will provide recommendations for their improvements. The audit
will cover the expenditures made through direct payments as well as expenditures
reimbursed to the MOWR in terms of their substantiation and their eligibility and
compliance with the Grant Agreement. An escrow account will be used to pay the
auditor after the project closing date.
VII. Disbursement Arrangements
The Grant of US$20 million is expected to be disbursed within two years period. The
Bank's strategy in Iraq is to ensure Iraqi ownership and strengthen institutional capacity
by financing operations that are implemented by Iraqi ministries and other recipient
entities. Trained PMTs will facilitate implementation and help ensure compliance with
fiduciary and other safeguards. PMTs will be employed and paid by the implementing
entity at regular salary levels, thereby avoiding the disadvantages of stand-alone Project
Implementation Units that can erode civil service institutional capacity over the medium
and long term. The project will finance specialized technical support in procurement,
financial management, and other areas as needed. In addition, to ensure that project
funds are used for the purposes intended and to help carry out project supervision, the
World Bank will employ two independent firms as fiduciary and safeguard Monitoring
Agents.
As a further compensating control, disbursements will be made primarily by direct
payment by the Bank to the contractors, consultants, and vendors. Once authorized by
the MOWR, direct payments will be made by the World Bank directly into the account of
the contractor, consultant, or vendor in a commercial bank capable of receiving funds
transferred from the international banking system.
The project management component costs and payments below the threshold of
US$10,000 normally will be made through payments by the Recipient from its own
resources. These payments made from the Recipient's own resources will be reimbursed,
on a periodic basis, by the World Bank to the MOWR upon presentation of supporting
documents, proof of payment, and a signed withdrawal applications. The PMT and the
main financial counterparts from the MOWR will be subject to intensive training in the
Bank's disbursement procedures.
43



Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Initially supporting documentation will be
provided to the Bank for all requests to disburse funds under the Grant. The Bank has the
option to allow expenditures under US$10,000 to be made by means of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). If SOEs are allowed the supporting documentation will be
maintained at the PMT of MOWR and made available for review by Bank representatives
upon request; any documentation relating to SOEs will be retained for up to one year
from the date the Bank receives the second Grant audit report.
VIII. Financial Management Risk Assessment:
The following table summarizes the identified risks, the risk assessment, and mitigation
measures:
Identified Risks                            Risk     Mitigation Measures
Rating    MiiainMaue
The Bank gained some knowledge on Iraqi
Public Financial Management (PFM) by
appointing a consulting firm to assess
Limited knowledge of the Iraqi financial     H       several Iraqi ministries. Bank staff also
management systems, and capacity                     conducted their own interviews with Iraqi
officials in Amman and reviewed PFM
system documentation. Further knowledge
was gained from an audit report issued by
an intemational audit firm
The PMT will staff will include a qualified
financial manager, assisted by a financial
officer, and a finance assistant. The
financial manager will manage
disbursements from the proceeds of the
grants, supervise project accounts, retain
Limited Financial Management (FM) capacity   H       financial records, and prepare project
of MOWR, to comply with FM requirements.            reports. The team will be assisted by a FM
consultant. The Bank also engaged a
consulting firm to prepare a Master
Implementation Manual to be used by all
projects financed under the Iraq Trust
Fund.
MOWR already started communications
Unidentified sub-projects which may delay            with local councils to identify new sub-
project implementation. Also, some newly             projects based on the approved eligibility
identified sub-projects may be in remote areas  H    criteria. PMT will arrange through the
which may cause communication with and               MOWR directorates in the governorates to
supervision by the PMT and Monitoring               review and supervise sub-projects. Also,
Agents very difficult                                the monitoring agents will assist as
feasible.
The Iraqi contribution to the project will be
Counterpart Funds not nmade available        L       in kind, i.e. the costs of staff assigned to
the PMT and staff from   the ministry
working on the project.
The MOWR not being able to provide funds             The ministry commitment to provide the
from its own resources for transaction below  H      required funds was confirmed during
US$ 10 000                              I            negotiations.
44



The flow of funds will concentrate on using
direct payment; however inefficiencies in
the banking and payment system in Iraq
remain a major risk factor for such
Funds flow not taking place as planned      H      payments. The Bank uses Wachovia for
US$ payment in Iraq. Also the Bank
discussed with Citi Bank and Standard
Chartered their abilities to transfer funds
into Iraqi Banks
Once the Master Implementation Manual
and the project implementation plan have
Accounting Policies and procedures not meeting  M   been  finalized, well-defined  financial
the Bank minimum requirement                        policies and procedures will be in place. In
addition, the financial management policies
of the MMWP will apply to the project.
The Minister will designate an auditor from
the internal audit department to perform
ex-ante verification on the project financial
Internal Audit not taking place             M      transactions. The internal auditor will be
introduced to the project and trained in the
use of Bank operational policies and
procedures and the Grant Agreement
covenants.
Extemal audit will be carried out by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
Extemal audit not meeting Bank's            H      with   international  experience,  in
requirements                                        accordance  with terms  of reference
acceptable to the Bank Appointment of the
auditor will start after the grant signing
The PMT will prepare quarterly FMR and
Inadequate Reporting and Financial          H      annual project financial statement. The
Monitoring                                         format and contents of the FMR were
agreed during negotiation.
A simple spreadsheet system will be
Inadequate Information system to produce    H      installed to maintain project financial
project reports                                     transactions and prepare project reports
including FMRs.
PMT will be responsible for verifying
variation orders. The fiduciary monitoring
agent will assist, to the extent feasible.
Difficulty in verifying justification for          Price contingencies have been calculated
variation orders and possibility of variation  H   on the basis of recent prices. Given the
orders exceeding price contingencies               volatility of the market, however, should
price contingencies be insufficient to cover
the variation orders, scope of work will be
scaled back.
Overall Control Risk                        H
L: Low        M: Medium             S: Substantial        H: High
45



Next Steps
Action                                      Due Date
Identify the Financial Officer from the MOWR  Immediately
Identify the financial team and internal controller Immediately
to work on the project
Launch the Auditor selection Process        After grant Agreement Signature
Send Authorize Signatory letter to Bank     After grant Agreement Signature
Finalize Project Financial Manual           November 30, 2004
VIII. Project Supervision
The project will be implemented in close coordination with the World Bank Consultant
Team, who will be responsible for monitoring compliance with Bank safeguards and
procedures. The consultant team will assist during the project launch workshop and also
provide the needed training to the PMT and the MOWR staff. The project will be
supervised by the World Bank on a quarterly basis in the first year, and every six months
thereafter. World Bank supervision missions will consist of visits to the MOWR, MOF,
MOPDC, and rehabilitation sites, and would review the impact of the project activities
and related documentation. Should security conditions not permit access of Bank staff
and consultants the World Bank Consultant Team will conduct the supervision on behalf
of the Bank. The Bank will also appoint independent fiduciary and safeguard Monitoring
Agents, who will oversee the overall project implementation to ensure full compliance
with the Trust Fund covenants.
46



Annex 7
DRAFT TERMS of REFERENCE for the WORLD BANK CONSULTANT TEAM
The World Bank intends to engage a firm of Consultants (the Firm) to help expedite and monitor
project progress on behalf of the World Bank. The Firm would interact with staff of the Ministry
responsible for project implementation, the MOWR, and their consultants and carry out field
assessments as necessary to carry out this work. The Firm would report findings to the World
Bank and make recommendations. Making use of these fndings and recommendations, the Bank
would then communicate the Bank's views on project related matters to the MOWR.
The scope of work of the Firm would cover:
*  A review of subprojects proposed by MOWR and an assessment of whether they meet the
agreed selection criteria.
*  A review of final designs of selected subprojects and bidding documents for their
execution.
  A review of in-progress and completed sub projects to assess quality of work by
contractors and supervision by MOWR and their consultants.
*  A review of the selection of proposed feasibility studies to be conducted under the
project, TOR for these studies and the completed studies.
  Reporting to the World Bank
A. Selection of Subproiects
*  Review subprojects proposed by MOWR for inclusion in the project, to deternine if they
meet the eligibility criteria for the project agreed between GOI and the WB, (eligibility
criteria are attached as Annex 2) and make recommendations to the WB regarding the
eligibility of these projects. The report to the World Bank will answer the questions listed
in Annex 2 attached.
*  Present the findings on eligibility for financing under the ECIRP to WB staff and clarify
any judgments made, as requested.
*  Make recommendations to the WB regarding any changes that should be introduced in
the subprojects to improve their eligibility. The WB may then communicate these
recommendations to the MOWR.
B. Assessment of Final Designs and Bidding Documents
*  The Firm will review the final designs proposed by MOWR for each selected subproject
and make recommendations to the WB regarding their acceptability and any
recommended changes.
*  The WB will communicate comments and/or no objection to MOWR as required.
*  The Firm will review all bidding documents proposed by MOWR for selected subprojects
and make recommendations to the WB regarding their acceptability and any
recommended changes.
*  The WB will communicate comments and/or no objection to MOWR as required.
C. Field Assessment of Works and Quality of Construction Supervision
The Firm will make a review of the quality of construction and construction supervision
by making spot checks on 2-3 selected ongoing or completed works on a quarterly basis.
47



* On the basis of these field visits and discussions with MOWR and their consultants the
Firm will report and make recommendations to the World Bank on subproject progress.
D. Review of Selection of Feasibility Studies. Selection of Study Consultants and review of
Studies
*  The Firm will assess the eligibility of Feasibility Studies proposed by MOWR to be
financed under the ECIRP against the selection criteria agreed for these studies (agreed
criteria are in Annex 2) and make recommendations to the World Bank regarding their
eligibility.
*  The WB will communicate comments or no objection to proceeding with the studies as
required.
*  The Firm will review the process proposed to be used by MOWR to select consultants to
carry out studies and inform the WB whether they consider that these procedures follow
the procedures agreed with the WB for the selection of Consultants.
*  On completion of the studies the Firm will review the studies, concentrating on specific
aspects requested by the WB
E. General Reporting Requirements
*  The Firm will be responsible for providing the Bank (Task Team) with the semiannual
M&E, procurement, and FM information needed to produce a semiannual Project Status
Report (PSR).
*  The consultants, by working jointly with the PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants, may
also be requested by the Bank to produce rapid monthly/quarterly status reports,
including photographs of key elements and resources.
*  The consultants, by working closely with the PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants, will
obtain semiannual Digital Images and Video-records of (1) questionnaires to the Village
leaders (Mokhtars) and District/Nahia leaders, and (2) independent household surveys;
thus inferring community consultation and satisfaction, both at appraisal and supervision.
The consultants will be responsible for streaming the digital-images and video-records to
the Bank. However, the procurement/financing of the needed Digital/Video Cameras will
be the onus of the PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants.
48



Annex 8
Project Management and Capacity Building
Cost Estimates
A. Core PMT Consultants                 m/m             Cost ($)'
(TOR in Annex 3)
Senior Technical Advisor              24            500,000
Financial Management Specialist       24             500,000
Procurement Specialist                24             500,000
Davs
B. Other Consultants for PMT             80             80,000
No.
C. Vehicles                               8             320,000
D. Monitoring and Evaluation of Eauivment
Including Video and Streaming Equipment              50,000
E. Miscellaneous EauiDment                              20,000
F. Contingencies                                        30,000
2, 000,000
Consultant costs include overheads for an international consulting company.
49



- -



MAP SECTION



I RAQ
.  _  MAJOR OILFIELDS
+   AIRPORTS                          - SECONDARY ROADS         -     GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
PORT                                 MAIN ROADS              -  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o  SELECTED TOWNS                       EXPRESSWAYS
) GOVERNORATE CAPITALS             e--  RAILROADS
   NATIONAL CAPITALS
-  380   ,,0J  +                   42                    44  S                 46                     48
TURKEY
zdkh6 
DAH-UK,
To AllQOmishli                                        ToTobriz
_  _       , 'Aqaho  \  R yt                            4.     IRAQ
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .Sinid   \4 
-36                     To Doyr oz Zowr                                                                                               36-
E&~~r             \.   NINA WA4
g7$D '< As '~ > \A/
X \        /     .   ~~~~~~~~~~~Al HaSurr o  \+ (<Kirsk-Ok   y2h
<   I   .\t-  AT  AS SULAYMANIYAH
SYRIAN                                                                                        CI
ARAB                ToDy
REP           r~~~~~~oz,az                         Ba     t,       j                                  REPUBLIC
REP.                                                                                   -
'Anah  --c                      Dt2t < N
34' 
Thorth                     .4tAN S    h
a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
To Ai"mm  _ Trebi
JORDA                                                                             HDA
32B /      <   ~  _--2    EDAD ' 
>'ROMAtthA~ ' Rtv S  40FERDUESRSLhN  ,KAZAKHSTANr  *\   N* <                                                             Al ' Ba rah (Basra)
FE                         N~~ANB 
BULGARIA  B/ack Sec   .              UZ8EKISTAN                       /         Y                                                  'AL S I
Caspion ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    Rzzz
ffEE TURKEY      ARM     ,[AjA,ERBAIIANjN                                     AL  MUTHANNA            iLAJ.RAH      p      cyr m5hSo
j  ARAB RER                                                                                 A K t
*  OF EGYPI                    - RAHRAINS  _./t
|        ~~~SAUDI   ' rVATAR ,v)                                                            ToHoro oin          ._._>
UNITEDARAB 1 r 
20            ,                 EMIRATES jC ' ,,                                               . 
SUDAN      -I                               I2'
'ERITREA AH. REP OF YEMEN
\   ~      ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ 3i5 iomtr  Thib ndap esopmgored ey the Maop Des~rt Vail of TimWorddBrm0  25  50  75  100 Kilomeiers
m~~                              ~     ~~~~ -   300 Miles  shownaon Ibis mop do noN mply, or the part of Tie Wadid Bank                    0 0| |  
w         ''~~~ ~~/  '   ,IBGUTI     Graaip, an       y o dgmenl   an tce hcelegal 9 smcart a! any lenria,)Soa, ny0 2s o  Js   1 MieJ
<  10     j    ETHIOPIA                Araia        enasmaaaepaeaoebaaais0                                       2     0    7     0  ie
SOMAD'  p.j  410''  \ _  5LA  Sea            44A46                                                4B ai
40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __a c_ _ __eo_ _ I_ _ U ZBEKISTA N                                                                      B



r



t
Ii
i
I
I
Ii
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
II
i
i
j



