Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5196 
Project Name 
Emergency Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (75%);Water supply (25%) 
Project ID 
P087881 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Water Resources 
Palestine Street 
Baghdad 
Iraq 
Tel: 964-1772-0240 
Fax: 964-1774-0672 
waterresmin@yahoo.co.uk 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 23, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 25, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
October 9, 2004 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
a. 
Iraq faces monumental reconstruction and development challenges in the coming years.  
As highlighted in the 
Iraq United Nations/World Bank Joint Needs Assessment
,
years of conflict, 
international economic sanctions and dictatorial rule have resulted in the nearly complete 
degradation of the country’s physical, economic and social infrastructures.  An estimated 
60 percent of the population is dependent on a volatile public food distribution system, while 
basic human development indicators such as child mortality, universal primary education, gender 
equality, etc., as well as environmental conditions have greatly deteriorated over the last decade. 
 
b. 
In the rural space, lack of investment and maintenance in water supply, sanitation, 
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and services, a centralized command economy with 
distorting policies and legislation, and physical destruction have led to the disintegration of a 
potentially productive and market-oriented agriculture-based rural economy.  In 2001, 
agriculture contributed an estimated 8 percent to Iraq’s GDP and about 20 percent to total 
employment.  Consisting in large parts of subsistence farming, agriculture currently supports a 
rural population of 7 million out of an estimated total population of 26 million. 
 
c. 
The proposed Project will expand the Bank’s support to Iraq’s reconstruction and address 
current emergency needs for infrastructure rehabilitation at the community level.  This will be 
undertaken through the restoration of rural infrastructure by financing labor-intensive small-scale 
civil works programs through water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage infrastructure 
rehabilitation, thereby creating short-term rural employment.  The Project will complement the 
Page  2
Bank’s efforts in water supply infrastructure rehabilitation in urban areas.  It is fully consistent 
with the World Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for Iraq (January, 2004), which emphasizes the 
need for rapid rehabilitation of critical infrastructure and services, short-term employment 
generation, and institutional capacity building as prerequisites for long-term and sustained 
recovery.  The Project’s strategic objective is to lay the groundwork for the Bank’s medium-term 
reconstruction and development program in the rural space in Iraq.  The Project is part of the 
Bank’s proposed work program that has been agreed upon with key Iraqi ministers.  It would be 
implemented through grant financing from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) under the 
International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq.  
 
d. 
The comparative advantages of the Bank lies in its ability to:  (i) bring its international 
experiences and best practices in community rehabilitation and development projects under post-
conflict/in-conflict conditions (Afghanistan, East Timor, Kosovo, West Bank and Gaza); and 
(ii) build capacity in existing local Iraqi institutions by involving them in the execution of the 
Project and thereby creating greater commitment and ownership of the reconstruction process of 
their country. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
a. 
The project development objective is to contribute to economic and social recovery and 
improve the standard of living through developing community-based rehabilitation of rural 
infrastructure.  Starting with the emergency rehabilitation of priority water supply, sanitation, 
irrigation and drainage in selected rural areas (accompanied by capacity building technical 
assistance to local institutions), the Project will use a phased and flexible approach building on 
pilots and increasing community involvement. 
 
b. 
In summary, the three primary objectives of the Project are:  (i) to restore some of the 
basic small-scale water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage facilities in the rural areas that 
are currently in a damaged state and causing hardship to the rural inhabitants; (ii) to carry out the 
restoration works in a manner that creates short-term employment in communities where the sub-
projects are located; and (iii) to increase community involvement in small-scale infrastructure 
rehabilitation that will eventually result in decentralization through community planning, 
implementation and operation and maintenance of these infrastructures. 
 
c. 
The objective is to be accomplished by means of piloting and financing labor-intensive 
civil works programs in the form of many small sub-projects that are based on immediate 
infrastructure rehabilitation needs and priorities of communities, particularly those located in 
low-income areas. 
 
d. 
The principal outputs of the Project would thus be:  (i) increased short-term employment 
in project areas; (ii) improved access to community infrastructure and services; (iii) enhanced 
capacity to implement infrastructure programs; and (iv) increased private sector activity in rural 
areas through opportunities for local contractors and suppliers. 
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
a. 
Project Components.  
The Project is designed as an emergency operation that is able to 
respond to evolving demands in terms of intervention and financing requirements.  Due to 
insufficient knowledge of the situation on the ground, the Project will consist of two types of 
interventions: 
 
(i)
 Small-scale Water Supply, Sanitation, Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation 
Sub-Projects 
according to priorities set by the Ministry of Water Resources 
(MOWR) and based on available or newly generated design packages.  These sub-
projects will include rehabilitation of facilities for water supply, sanitation, irrigation 
and drainage, and community institutional capacity building.  Each sub-project would 
allocate a sizable proportion of the investment budget to direct labor cost and provide 
short
-
term employment opportunities through local civil works; 
 
(ii) 
Feasibility and Design Studies
 in the water supply, sanitation, irrigation and 
drainage subsectors to develop a pipeline of (i) immediately implementable small-
scale rehabilitation projects; and (ii) larger-scale follow-up projects for subsequent 
implementation that are in line with local development priorities. 
 
b. 
Investment Size.  
The total investment on each rehabilitation sub-project should be in the 
range of US$300,000 to US$1,000,000, while the maximum amount of financing of feasibility 
studies which will be determined during the identification of such proposals will not exceed 
US$300,000.  Proposals for feasibility studies and sub-projects will be geographically distributed 
throughout Iraq. 
 
c. 
Given the current security conditions and the lack of Bank field presence, there is a need 
for an innovative and flexible approach to implementation, including supervision, monitoring, 
training and disbursement procedures.  The Bank will apply emergency procedures under 
Operational Policy (OP) 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance) in processing the proposed 
Project.  While procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures will be 
organized centrally, the project team will rely on a team of qualified local Iraqi consultants to 
appraise, supervise and monitor progress in the field.  The consultant team will make periodic 
visits to sites of rehabilitation sub-projects and to sites for which feasibility studies are to be 
developed, until such time when security conditions have improved allowing Bank staff to 
resume traveling to Iraq. 
 
d. 
Bank staff, in the short-term, will monitor progress based on consultant field reports and 
will have meetings with the client in Amman to discuss progress.  The Video Conferencing (VC) 
facilities installed in Iraq will also be a regular tool to keep in constant contact with the client.  
Training will also be provided to the implementing agencies (project staff of MOWR and 
representatives of local government/farmers/communities) to strengthen capacity in technical, 
project management and fiduciary skills including environmental and social safeguards.   
 
Page  4
e. 
The Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation (MOPDC) will be the 
responsible agency coordinating the Project with the Bank.  MOWR will prepare lists of specific 
priority sub-projects to be funded under the Project focusing on rehabilitation of water supply 
systems, sanitation facilities, irrigation canals and pumps, and drainage infrastructure.  Eligibility 
of sub-projects will be determined according to a set of criteria that include technical, economic 
and environmental soundness, involvement of community, and readiness for implementation.  
Details on the eligibility criteria for project financing are being finalized with the Government 
representatives during negotiations.  
 
f. 
MOPDC will review the proposed program and ensure that there is no overlap or 
duplication with other donors’ activities.  Since the proposed Project is expected to be funded 
through the ITF, it will be vetted and cleared by the Strategic Review Committee of the 
Government of Iraq.  
 
g.  
Project design will rest on rapid rural appraisals and simplified feasibility studies for the 
sub-projects proposed by MOWR, which will be conducted by the local Iraqi consultants hired 
under the Project.  Given the large information gaps on the situation in rural Iraq, especially the 
lack of an in-depth social analysis, community driven interventions will be gradually phased in 
as experience grows, both within the Bank and our counterparts in the ministries and 
participating Governorates. 
 
h. 
To ensure fiduciary compliance, the Project scope has been initially limited to the water 
sector so as to avoid complex procurement and financial management arrangements across 
several sectoral Government entities.  For all Bank operations, including the proposed Project, 
the Bank will engage a qualified firm to monitor procurement, disbursement, and financial 
reporting related to the ITF to support the Bank’s own supervision. 
 
i. 
Donor coordination with agencies active in the water sector will be actively pursued as 
part of the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the proposed emergency intervention. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
a. 
The Project recognizes the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction 
interventions, and the related need for immediate assistance, while at the same time ensures due 
diligence in managing potential environmental and social risks.  The proposed operation will 
consist of the design and limited execution of sub-projects in the range of US$300,000 to 
US$1,000,000 consisting basically of small-scale rehabilitation works.  These projects are 
anticipated to have no major environmental or social impacts.  Furthermore, the proposed Project 
is being processed under emergency procedures OP 8.50, and the environmental and social 
safeguard assessments are expected to be carried out during implementation under an 
environmental and social safeguards framework (ESSAF), which has been specifically tuned for 
the Iraq situation and has already been disclosed in Iraq and in the Bank’s InfoShop.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Page  5
Source 
(US$m) 
BORROWER 
0
SPECIAL FINANCING 
20 
Total 
20 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: 
Steve Maber 
Title:       
Senior Operations Officer 
Tel:        
(202) 473-2994 
Fax:        
(202) 477-0262 
Email:     
smaber@worldbank.org 
 
wb15774 
P:\IRAQ\RE\87881\PREP\PID-Concept Stage disclosed 11-4-2009.docx 
11/4/2009 9:08:00 AM
 
