                                      Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR 2984




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-53546)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

       MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                                      FOR AN

 EMERGENCY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                 January 31, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
               (Exchange Rate Effective September, 2004)
                         Currency Unit = US$
                       US$1 = Iraqi Dinar 1,460

             FISCAL YEAR (GOVERNMENT OF IRAQ)
                      January to December


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ECHO    European Commission Humanitarian Affairs Office
ESSAF   Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
MA      Monitoring Agent
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOPDC   Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
MOWR    Ministry of Water Resources
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OP      Operational Policy
PC      Project Coordinator
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PMT     Project Management Team
PP      Procurement Plan
SBD     Standard Bidding Document
SOEs    State-Owned Enterprises
TA      Technical Assistance
TOR     Terms of Reference
UNDG    United Nations Development Group
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development


                      Vice President:   Inger Andersen
                    Country Director:   Ferid Belhaj
                     Sector Manager:    Steven N. Schonberger
                Project Team Leader:    Abdulhamid Azad
                   ICR Team Leader:     Qun Li
                                                  REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

EMERGENCY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .....................................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .....................................................6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...............................................................21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................21
  6. Lessons Learned ..............................................................................................................23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .....................24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ........................................................................................27
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis……………………………………………….34
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................41
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .........................................................41
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..............................42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..............................43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .............................................................................43

  MAPS: IBRD 40718 and 40719…………………..……………………….....................44
A. Basic Information
                                                                        Iraq Emergency
                                                                        Community
Country:                Iraq                     Project Name:
                                                                        Infrastructure
                                                                        Rehabilitation Project
Project ID:             P087881                  L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-53546
ICR Date:               12/09/2013               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                        GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Grantee:
                                                                        IRAQ
Original Total
                        USD 46.00M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 43.57M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 44.54M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Water Resources of the Republic of Iraq
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/26/2004     Effectiveness:          12/17/2004
Appraisal:             09/14/2004     Restructuring(s):       03/27/2008           04/20/2008
Approval:              12/10/2004     Mid-term Review:            No
                                      Closing:                06/30/2010           06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                 Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                           Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                                      Yes                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                                      Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                             75                  75
Water supply                                                        25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social development                                            67                    67
Rural services and infrastructure                                   33                    33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen               Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:            Ferid Belhaj                 Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:              Steven N. Schonberger        Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Project Team Leader:         Abdulhamid Azad              Steven P. Maber
ICR Team Leader:             Qun Li
                             Malik Saifullah M. Khokhar
ICR Primary Authors:
                             Qun Li

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to address current emergency needs in Iraq for
infrastructure rehabilitation at the community level and generate employment. This will
cover the restoration of rural infrastructure using labor-intensive, small-scale civil works
programs for water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage infrastructure subprojects.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To generate near-term employment while addressing urgent rural irrigation, drainage and
water infrastructure rehabilitation needs.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target          Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from            Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval               Target        Completion or
                                             documents)              Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of water-users end-beneficiaries.
Value
quantitative or                0                   121,000           163,750           193,305
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                 12/30/2006          06/30/2010      06/30/2013
Comments
                  The project was able to reach 118% of the revised target numbers of beneficiaries
(incl. %
                  as reported by the Project M&E.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Incremental employment generated (man-day) by the project.
Value
quantitative or                0                   176,000           305,500           323,538
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                 12/30/2006          06/30/2010      06/30/2013
Comments
                  One of the two main thrusts of the project was short term employment creation at
(incl. %
                  the local level, and it succeeded in surpassing the target (106% of revised target).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Female water users provided with new/improved irrigation and drainage services.
Value
quantitative or                0                   18,150            24,562             77,302
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                12/30/2006        06/30/2010     06/30/2013
Comments          Women play an increasingly important role in Iraqi agriculture, due to loss of
(incl. %          husbands to conflict or migration. The achieved result exceeded the expected
achievement)      target by 314%.
                  Number of domestic water users in rural areas provided with access to improved
Indicator 4 :
                  water sources under the project
Value
quantitative or                0                    3,993             5,400             9,300
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                12/30/2006        06/30/2010     06/30/2013
Comments          Many people access canals for domestic water uses and even drinking.
(incl. %          Improvement in infrastructure made water availability to a much larger cohort
achievement)      than was envisioned at planning, achieved172% of revised target.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                            Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Area provided with improved irrigation and drainage.
Value
quantitative or                0                    70,000            97,000           119,288
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                 12/30/2006           06/30/2010     06/30/2013
Comments
                  The project succeeded in covering a much larger area than initially targeted
(incl. %
                  (123% of revised target).
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Cropping intensity (%) after intervention as opposed to before intervention.
Value
(quantitative                  80                     85               120               100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                  12/30/2006         06/30/2010      06/30/2013
                  Farming communities make necessary investments in improved technology and
Comments
                  inputs once irrigation is secured, and there usually is some time lag. The target of
(incl. %
                  120% was not achieved immediately on Grant closure, but its achievement is
achievement)
                  likely.
                  Crop yield after intervention versus before intervention (Ton/Ha, wheat and
Indicator 3 :
                  barley
Value
(quantitative             1.25/1.25                 2.0/3.0           3.0/3.0          2.83/2.6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                  12/30/2006          06/30/2010     06/30/2013
Comments          There is a likelihood of further yield increases beyond the 93/87% achievement,
(incl. %          as more farmers shift to high input production systems with insured water
achievement)      supply.
Indicator 4 :     Soil salinity (ppm) after interventions versus before interventions.
Value
(quantitative                  3.4                    2.8               2.8              2.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                 12/30/2006           06/30/2010     06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Salinity is slightly higher than the target value (97%).
achievement)
                  Capacity building achieved through internal and external training (man days of
Indicator 5 :
                  trainees).
Value
(quantitative                  0                    1,260              3,460            4,330
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2004                12/30/2006    06/30/2010    06/30/2013
Comments          ECIRP was instrumental in meeting capacity building needs of MOWR and
(incl. %          PMT. 125% of the revised man-days target were delivered, which improved
achievement)      implementation significantly.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                         IP           Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
                    Moderately
 1 04/26/2005                                 Unsatisfactory               0.00
                    Unsatisfactory
                                            Moderately
 2 06/15/2005       Moderately Satisfactory                                0.00
                                            Unsatisfactory
  3   09/23/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory        0.00
  4   02/08/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Satisfactory                   1.03
  5   11/07/2006    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   9.72
  6   12/21/2006    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  10.44
  7   06/25/2007    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  13.06
  8   12/04/2007    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory           16.05
  9   06/29/2008    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  16.80
 10   12/19/2008    Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  18.50
 11   12/23/2012    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  41.94
 12   07/09/2013    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  42.37
 13   11/22/2013    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  43.57

H. Restructuring (if any)

There was a restructuring at the time of the Additional Financing in 2008. Based on the
successful outcomes of ECIRP, requests were made by the government for Additional
Financing (AF) in the amount of US$26 million to support additional
subprojects/interventions. This was approved by the Bank and became effective in April
2008. With the AF, ECIRP subprojects were increased from sixteen to twenty nine and
project areas covered in thirteen Governorates. There was also another restructuring to
reallocate the remaining budget for the final project completion and extension that was
processed in December 2012.
I. Disbursement Profile

        Original 50               Formally Revised   Actual
                             45
                             40
                             35

             US $ Millions   30
                             25
                             20
                             15
                             10
                              5
                              0
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Republic of Iraq, with an area of about 437,000 square kilometers and an estimated
population of 32 million, is blessed with abundant natural and human resources, and had attained
the status of a middle-income country in the 1970-1980s. Since then, however, the country has
been adversely impacted by a series of wars, years of internal instability and external shocks.
Additionally, international sanctions and misdirected economic policies have left the country’s
economy weak and underdeveloped.

Water is a critical element of Iraq’s agriculture, food security and rural economy. Cultivated land
in the valleys of Euphrates and Tigris rivers receive scant rainfall and are heavily dependent on
irrigation from these rivers. Iraq has a very old and established irrigation system, two-thirds of
which is gravity irrigation and the remaining third pumped from rivers and major channels. At
the time of project appraisal, there had been little investment in rural areas over the previous two
decades, and on maintenance of hydraulic structures on rivers and canals, leaving much of the
infrastructure (including irrigation and water supply services) in a very poor state of repair. At
the end of 2003, hundreds of pumping stations were reportedly in a state of disrepair, and many
rural communities were cut off from their economic activities because of the breakdown of
irrigation and drainage system. At the same time, following large-scale unemployment after the
start of UN sanctions, many people returned to rural areas to rely on agriculture for livelihoods,
adding to rural unemployment with little prospect for decent livelihoods.

In September 2003, the World Bank/United Nations Development Group (UNDG) prepared a
Needs Assessment covering 14 sectors which identified two phases in restoring the key
productive activities in Iraq. The first phase focused on the short-term need for stabilizing the
economy by attending to critical problems of restoration of essential services and employment,
while the second phase would address the more intermediate and long-term needs of
rehabilitating the run-down infrastructure and allocating resources towards efficiency
enhancement and generation of a competitive market economy.

At an International Donors' Conference for Iraq in Madrid in October, 2003, donors expressed
support for the Needs Assessment and pledged about US$32 billion for the four-year period
covered by the Needs Assessment. Donors also asked the World Bank and UNDG to set up an
International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq to ensure swift, flexible, and coordinated
donor financing for priority investments consistent with the Needs Assessment. The Facility
consists of two trust funds—a World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) and a UNDG Trust Fund—
each with its own internal governance procedures and a management structure that would
ensures close coordination.

In support of the short-term Phase 1 actions, the World Bank earmarked US$20 million from the
World Bank ITF to finance urgent activities in rural areas, (where agriculture provided
employment to more than thirty percent of Iraqi population) including the emergency




                                                 1
rehabilitation of priority irrigation, drainage and water and sanitation in an Emergency
Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (ECIRP).

The ECIRP was primarily designed as an emergency operation with the purpose of focusing on
immediate rehabilitation needs in the water sector in rural areas, which could be implemented
using low-skilled local labor, thus creating short term employment opportunities. Finally,
ECIRP would improve the capacity of Iraq’s Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR).

At the time of project preparation, there were only four feasible subprojects identified by
MOWR for immediate implementation, and another 12 subprojects were to be identified during
project implementation and their feasibility (as well as feasibility of potential subprojects for
future interventions) was to be prepared under Part B of ECIRP. With this in view, project design
was kept simple and flexible.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the project was to address current emergency needs in Iraq for infrastructure
rehabilitation at the community level and generate employment. This will cover the restoration of
rural infrastructure using labor-intensive, small-scale civil works programs for water supply,
sanitation, irrigation and drainage infrastructure subprojects.

The Technical Annex contained fourteen indicators. The indicators that were tracked during
project implementation are included in the Datasheet.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The revised objective was to generate near-term employment while addressing urgent rural
irrigation, drainage and water infrastructure rehabilitation needs. This would be achieved through
a flexible program of labor-intensive civil works to restore and improve rural water supply and
irrigation infrastructure.

The substance of the revised objective remained the same as the original. The revised wording
simply clarified in the objective statement itself that the project’s focus was on rural irrigation,
drainage and water infrastructure rehabilitation (and not broader infrastructure rehabilitation).
This was always the intent of the project design as is clear from the second sentence of the
original PDO and no changes were made to the project focus and design.

The key PDO indicators under the AF were:

   •   Employment created (man-days); and
   •   Number of water-user end-beneficiaries.




                                                 2
Intermediate indicators were:

   •   Rehabilitation unit costs after construction (including and excluding the introduced
       Variation Orders);
   •   Improved agricultural areas (hectares);
   •   Cropping intensity (%) after intervention as opposed to before intervention;
   •   Crop yield after intervention versus before intervention (ton per hectare);
   •   Soil salinity (ppm) after intervention versus before intervention; and
   •   Average number of bids for local civil-work and goods contract; and Capacity building
       achieved through internal and external training (e.g. man-days of trainees).

As proposed by the borrower and agreed by the Bank, two of the intermediate indicators, the first
and the last; rehabilitation unit costs after construction (including and excluding the introduced
Variation Orders); and, average number of bids for local civil works and goods contract were
dropped, as they were not seen as adding anything meaningful as proposed by the GOI and
approved by the Bank at the project restructuring. A new indicator, capacity building achieved
through internal and external training (e.g. man-days of trainees) was added. The target values of
PDO indicators were also revised to reflect the outputs and outcomes of the additional financing
activities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of this Project were the farmers and their families living in the project
areas as described in the project appraisal document (Technical Annex). Direct beneficiaries of
the project are the inhabitants of the areas and neighborhoods where these rehabilitation
subprojects were implemented. More than 193,300 farmers have received the benefit of
improved irrigation, increasing yields and cropping intensity over 119,288 hectares of cultivated
area. Additionally, the project created more than 323,538 man days of employment, when it was
most needed during the rehabilitation phases. Improved agricultural production and the economic
activity associated with it continue to create further employment opportunities also after project
completion.

1.5 Original Components

Part A: Subprojects in Municipalities of Al Muthanna, Al Amara, Nassariyah, and
Sulaymaniyah: Subprojects for rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, and water supply and
sanitation facilities in Municipalities of Al Muthanna, Al Amara, Nassariyah, and Sulaymaniyah.
Four subprojects in these regions were identified including small-scale irrigation and drainage
rehabilitation schemes and the rehabilitation of 20 multipurpose wells. (Appraisal: US$2.5
million).

Part B: Subprojects to be identified in Other Priority Areas: Subprojects for rehabilitation of
irrigation, drainage, water supply and sanitation in other priority areas. Twelve subprojects
distributed across Iraq had been identified by MOWR at the feasibility level and were being



                                                3
further processed. Other subprojects were also under review by the MOWR. (Appraisal:
US$10.5 million).

Part C: Preparation of Feasibility Studies: The preparation of feasibility and design studies for:
(i) priority small-scale work to be implemented under the project, and (ii) large-scale projects
which could be implemented subsequent to the project under other sources of financing.
(Appraisal: US$3.0 million).

Part D: Project Management and Capacity Building: Support to the management of the project
including: (i) the establishment of a Project Management Team (PMT) in the MOWR; (ii) the
provision of technical assistance and training in project management, procurement and financial
management; (iii) capacity building to ensure the appropriate transfer of skills to the staff of the
Recipient; (iv) the employment of experts to assist with project management and capacity
building activities; and (v) the provision of equipment for the PMT. (Appraisal: US$2.0 million)1

1.6 Revised Components

On the request of the GOI, the World Bank approved an Additional Financing in the amount of
US$26 million (Project P109296; TF 091663; GA dated March 27, 2008), with a further addition
of US$1 million (September 21, 2009) to enable scaling up of activities and replicating the
impact of a well performing project.

The Components under AF were:

Part A: Implementation of selected subprojects aimed at rehabilitation and modernization of
irrigation, drainage, and rural water supply facilities in the north, middle and south of Iraq,
including provision of the required equipment.

Subcomponent 1: rehabilitation and modernization of small irrigation, drainage and rural water
supply infrastructure (US$20.25 million):

The Project Paper for Additional Financing defined the geographic coverage to thirteen
governorates including the Kurdistan Region: Al Muthana, Baghdad, Thi-Qar, Sulaymaniyah,
Wasset, Najaf, Diyala, Karbala, Irbil, Salahuddin, Babel, Dahook and El-Qadisah with 13
subprojects.

Subcomponent 2: Provision of Equipment and Goods (around US$4 million)

Part B: Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen Recipient’s capacity in water
resources and irrigation management, participatory irrigation management, information
technology and construction supervision (US$0.37 million) 2


1
    The balance amount of US$2 million was unallocated.

2
    US$ .65 million was unallocated.



                                                     4
Part C: Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity for Project Management, Monitoring and
evaluation, including financing of Operating Costs (US$0.73).

A complete list of subprojects is provided in Annex 2.

1.7 Other significant changes

In December 2005, upon the MOWR request, a first reallocation of grant proceeds was
undertaken. The disbursement categories covering consultancy services and project management
were rationalized in favor of the civil-works category. The aim was to increase the impact on the
ground and provide more employment opportunities in rural areas. Reallocations increased the
original number of rehabilitation subprojects from sixteen as mentioned in the Grant Agreement
to twenty two subprojects, and added a new ICB contract for supplying equipment (four
excavators, two loaders, and two graders) to perform the maintenance and operation of the
completed subprojects to ensure sustainability.

While there were reallocations of funds more than once, there was no restructuring or major
change in the project design. Reallocations were made to divert funds from consultants to
additional subprojects. Similarly, the changes that were made during the AF were focused on
improvements of the subproject design and implementation, including procurement and financial
management. These improvements aimed to further expedite implementation, enhance
decentralization, improve impacts and ownership of the end beneficiaries, and improve capacity
of MOWR.

     •   To improve community participation for subproject preparation, the PMT consulted the
         farmer representatives and other decentralized entities, including local government
         representatives, on the design and objectives of the proposed subprojects. Farmers were
         represented by the “Nahia” leader and by the heads of agricultural cooperatives; and
     •   To further improve decentralization, the PMT: (i) made the Bidding Documents
         available to the pertinent governorate in addition to Baghdad; and (ii) involved the
         pertinent focal persons in the MOWR regional directorates in the bid evaluation process;

The original Grant Agreement became effective in December 2004, and was to be closed by
December 31, 2006. It was subsequently extended to December 31, 2008, due to the additional
financing. Following the approval of the AF, the Bank accepted to further extend the closing date
of the project thrice: (i) from June 30, 2010 to December 31, 2011; (ii) from December 31, 2011 to
December 31, 2012; and (iii) December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2013.




                                                  5
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The ICR Team considers the quality at entry for the overall project satisfactory, given the
difficult circumstances at the time of the appraisal and the need to rapidly respond to the
emergency situation evolving on the ground.

The rationale for Bank involvement in the reconstruction and development was based on the
Bank’s considerable experience in developing assistance in post conflict situations. The project
was prepared in a country just emerging from a war and after spending a long period under a
repressive regime facing debilitating international sanctions since 1991. The project was
prepared in accordance with Emergency Recovery Assistance procedures (OP/BP 8.50 for
Emergency Recovery Assistance subsequently replaced by OP/BP 8.00 for Rapid Responses to
Crises and Emergencies), under the assumption that it would be a post conflict operation.

Project Design: The project objectives were clearly stated and responsive to Iraq’s priorities.
The components were well designed towards the achievement of project objectives. The smaller-
scale, spatially-dispersed subprojects under ECIRP proved to progress faster and better than
other larger-scale subprojects; requiring shorter periods of time to be completed, making them
less prone to price fluctuations. At the same time, a well-trained PMT was maintained stably
throughout the course of ECIRP implementation.

The project employed a flexible, programmatic approach that allowed interventions to adapt to
the changing realities on the ground and to the interventions of other donors (e.g. there were only
four subprojects identified at the project appraisal stage, and all other 37 subprojects were
identified and selected through the community participation during the project implementation).
As the project achieved rapid disbursements and impressive results on the ground, the Bank
subsequently approved additional financing of US$26 million for the scaling-up of ECIRP. The
quality of preparation of the AF was also satisfactory, effectively incorporating improvements to
the design in response to lessons learned on the ground.

Government commitment/Stakeholder involvement: The Government provided assurances
that it was committed to the project, with the Government at different levels – Ministry and
Governorates - providing significant institutional support. The PMT created in MOWR had a
clear mandate and was under reputable leadership throughout the project’s life, with direct
support from the Minister, and was therefore effective in managing the preparation and
implementation of the subprojects. Particularly, noteworthy was the fact that subproject
identification and feasibility study preparation were completed jointly by MOWR and PMT staff
without procuring the services of consultants as originally envisioned. MOWR successfully
provided support to PMT in procurement of necessary equipment. The internal and external
training resulted in capacity building of PMT and staff from MOWR and that helped ensure the
efficient implementation. The project was implemented under a difficult country context, where
it was not always possible for Bank staff to visit all subproject sites, and sometimes even the
local PMT staff could not visit sites for security reasons.




                                                6
The project design provided adequately for stakeholder involvement. Priority in design of
subprojects was given to increasing local employment. Local leaders were involved in the
selection of subprojects and community participation was frequent in discussions to ensure
ownership. Subprojects chosen were labor intensive simple designs that were sufficiently small
to be completed by local contractors, ensuring employment of locals, with each step of the
process ensuring participation.

Risks Assessment: The Project documents and appraisal had correctly identified the potential
technical, procurement and financial management risks at country level and project level, and the
mitigation measures were appropriately built into the project or addressed during the
implementation. The high risks included the security situation, the FM arrangements with
potential delays in payments in the national currency, the procurement capacity and the provision
of external trainings, where there was a likelihood of trainees fleeing abroad due to the security
situation in the country. Mitigation measures included increasing the threshold of direct
payments, and utilizing the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) to monitor and report to the
Bank. The FMA also assisted the PMT in monitoring the FM controls and in settlement of due
payments. FMA analyzed the payment stages and the PMT addressed the bottlenecks causing
delays respective to each stage. The procurement mitigation measures were also identified and
applied during project implementation as follows: (i) hiring a procurement officer to be part of
the PMT in the MOWR; (ii) an international procurement management firm recruited to assist
the PMT in procurement, establish a procurement monitoring and reporting system, and conduct
spot physical inspections; and (iii) the MOWR to rectify the critical shortcomings in the
procurement practices. The overall procurement carried out by the PMT was in compliance with
Bank procurement policy and procedures in general, although, there was one instance of mis-
procurement (see section 2.4).

In addition to the possibility of a deteriorating security situation, neither the Government in
general, and MOWR particularly, nor the Bank was familiar with the working of the other. There
were capacity constraints with potential to derail the project. However, because of the simple
design, and community driven nature, and MOWR and PMT’s commitment to Iraq’s water and
drainage infrastructure rehabilitation, and extensive internal and external training in the region,
and capacity building workshops, PMT was able to develop an understanding of the Bank’s
procurement and financial management practices quickly, and was generally able to deliver with
little onsite supervision by the Bank.

2.2 Implementation

The original ECIRP became effective in December 2004. In spite of some delays and the adverse
security situation, the implementation was satisfactory. The PMT and MOWR adopted Bank
policies and safeguards and were effective in project implementation. An MTR was not
considered as necessary, since the Grant was originally only for two years, the project was
supervised intensively (even though remotely), several reallocations were approved, and the
additional financing involved extensive review of progress.

The ECIRP started as a problem project due to very slow disbursement for over a year. However,
once a competent team was formed in the MOWR, it was able to learn the Bank’s business



                                                7
requirements fast and implementation arrangements put in place were guided by the exceptional
circumstances in which the project was delivered. The MOWR and the PMT implemented the
project efficiently, and completed or exceeded most of the targets by components as planned.

The original grant and AF had to be extended because there were reallocations to shift resources
from consultants or goods to additional subprojects. The ECIRP was designed for 16 subprojects
– four known and 12 to be selected as the project moved forward. But there were 22 subprojects
finally completed – with 18 identified during implementation. As for AF, at the appraisal stage,
13 subprojects were identified, but 19 were implemented and completed. The project finally
completed 44 subprojects, compared with the expected target of 29, covering more water service
areas, and a higher number of beneficiaries.

MOWR was proactive in project implementation and provided the PMT and governorate offices
with maintenance equipment from ministry resources, which freed Grant sources to further
increase the numbers of subprojects. There were times when PMT staff members were not able
to visit the subproject sites due to security concerns. In spite of this handicap, the PMT was
effective in project implementations.

Capacity building of PMT and MOWR staff through internal and external training was crucial to
ensuring timely completion of subprojects in full compliance with the Bank’s implementation
and management related policy and procedures. The extensive training on fiduciary aspects
provided to PMT and MOWR staff by the Bank had significantly improved the project
procurement, disbursement and financial management implemented by the PMT.

MOWR and the PMT managed the project efficiently and effectively with support of the Bank.
The MOWR had established an effective and flexible delegation mechanism between the
Minister’s office and the PMT, and also between PMT and the Governorate staff to manage the
project. A well-maintained PMT under the leadership of a reputable engineer for the entire
duration of the project was instrumental to the successful project implementation.

The PMT staff was motivated and took the initiative to identify potential subprojects and prepare
their feasibilities on a very proactive basis. The design and feasibility assessment of the 22
subprojects through a fast track approach resulted in a significant improvement of the subproject
preparation. The smaller-scale, spatially dispersed subprojects under ECIRP that expedited the
entire implementation process including the tendering, procurement, construction, payments and
accounting. Subprojects were mostly located in rural areas where security was not as much of a
concern as in some of the urban areas. This also facilitated the smooth operation of ECRIP.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The project monitoring and evaluation system was designed with consultant
support and was based on both project administrative data and data collected independently by
the consultants. The key project inputs, outputs and outcome indicators were monitored through
a Management Information System (MIS) that monitored the progress in project processing,
procurement actions and financial management. Through the MIS, M&E functions had been
performed by the PMT and PMT-hired TA consultants, thus providing the inputs needed for



                                               8
project management and Bank supervision. Performance indicators, forming the basis for
monitoring project implementation, were agreed with the Iraqi delegation at appraisal.

The Result Framework in the Technical Annex of the original project had 14 indicators that
covered aspects usually evaluated in non-emergency irrigation projects that proved too ambitious
for an emergency project. By the time the AF was approved, the contours of the M&E system
had taken clearer shape and the revised set of indicators tracking project outputs and outcomes
were established. All PDO and intermediate outcome indicators were properly designed to
evaluate the final achievement of the project objectives.

M&E Implementation: The PMT hired M&E consultants to assist the MOWR in undertaking
M&E to provide inputs for the supervision missions as well as for the recipient’s ICR. The M&E
consultant, in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Planning
and Development Cooperation (MOPDC) prepared the agreed M&E reports. Agricultural data,
both for subproject design and for M&E, were obtained by MOWR in coordination with MOA
and the General Directorate of Agriculture and Water of MOPDC. Furthermore, the monitoring
was supported by a Satellite Imagery System, which involved extensive “leg-work” by national
consultants for “ground truthing,” followed by procuring and processing of satellite images and
vetting these images against the corresponding digital photos taken during ground truthing.

The original project had started without baseline data because of the special post-conflict
circumstances in Iraq warranted an emergency response. However, the local M&E consultants
assisting the PMT were able to undertake field surveys that established the pre-subproject
baselines of various agricultural and other outcomes (crop intensity, yields, employment etc.)
against which progress could be periodically assessed.

Methodological soundness of M&E: Overall, the M&E system and indicators were designed
appropriately and enabled project management to monitor and evaluate implementation status
and progress, taking corrective measures needed rapidly, including modification of design on the
basis of community input. Agricultural production data was collected by the M&E consultants
from different sources, and stakeholders and visits to the sites of central and southern projects
showed improvements in agricultural productivity in the field due to rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage infrastructure.

Consultants were hired for the analysis of the satellite imageries that were acquired at three
different periods to investigate and identify the effect of the rehabilitation on the expansion of
the irrigated areas, as well as its social impacts in the five locations surveyed thrice. Metadata of
those satellite photos describing the stages of construction; project results documented in pictures
and analytical reports; and any other relevant details were used as monitoring tools in the project
and are available in Project Files.

The M&E results were also verified by the GHK Consulting’s Independent Review of the Iraq
Trust Fund. GHK assessed the impact of all the 22 grants under ITF. Design and execution
(implementation) were assessed with reference to: (i) performance of the PMTs; (ii) relevance;
(iii) beneficiary/stakeholder consultations; and (iv) accounting for risks. The M&E results were
used and assessed with reference to: (i) addressing urgent needs; (ii) cost effectiveness and



                                                 9
efficiency; (iii) achievement of outcomes; and (iv) the results framework. In spite of remote
management by the Bank Staff, the PMT had accorded considerable attention to impacts and
outcomes for the ECIRP and its supplement, making it the highest rated project under the ITF,
both on the basis of implementation and results, according to GHK’s assessment report.

M&E Sustainability: Various arrangements for continuing monitoring are in place and may be
further strengthened. The PMT at MOWR has developed M&E capacity and is already preparing
a major scaling up project for water resource management in Iraq, which will further strengthen
the M&E capability.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As ECIRP was an emergency operation, its safeguards were governed by the 2003
Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF), as well as the
revised ESSAF issued in April 2006. The ESSAF provided a safeguard compliance approach to
ensure due diligence in managing potential environmental and social risks, as well as general
principles, guidelines and code of practices and procedures for all stages of the operation through
an appraisal checklist containing technical, social, institutional and environmental criteria,
including for the protection of sites with cultural heritage significance.

The stated objective of ESSAF was to ensure that activities under the proposed
reconstruction/rehabilitation operations will address the following: (i) protect human health; (ii)
prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood; (iii) minimize environmental degradation as a
result of either individual subprojects or their cumulative effects; (iv) minimize adverse impacts
on cultural property; and (v) enhance positive environmental and societal outcomes.

The Project ensured Iraqi ownership and strengthened institutional capacity by financing
operations that were implemented by Iraqi ministries and other recipient entities. Trained PMTs
were facilitating implementation and helped ensure compliance with fiduciary and safeguard
requirements.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

The ESSAF was prepared to provide general policies, guidelines, codes of practice and
procedures to be integrated into the implementation of the initial phase of World Bank-supported
emergency reconstruction in Iraq. Most of the subprojects were repair, rehabilitation,
reconstructing and upgrading of critical irrigation infrastructure for re-invigorating agriculture to
create immediate employment opportunities as well as production enhancement.

The Project was assessed as category "B" project. According to the Technical Annex, impacts
would be those associated mainly with: (i) construction works (e.g. safety, dust, noise, pesticides,
waste material, traffic); (ii) provision of sanitary services, water supply and waste management;
and (iii) maintenance of facilities. New construction would be limited only to vacant sites that
were on public property assigned by the relevant authorities for the use of the MOWR. However,
after reviewing the scope of rehabilitation of all the subprojects: cleaning channels in original
and concrete lining in AF, with no likelihood of triggering any of Bank’s safeguard policies, the



                                                 10
project could have been safely classified as Category C. OP 4.12 was not expected to be
triggered. Regarding social safeguards, there was no land acquisition, or resettlement issues
because all subprojects consisted of rehabilitating and/or improving existing irrigation and
drainage infrastructure. This did not expose any cultural/historical site to potential damage.
Subprojects were selected in a participatory manner, bringing cohesion among the stakeholders
and building of bridges improved transportation facilities, enabling movement of people and
goods, creating additional nonfarm economic opportunities. Based on post-evaluation of the
environmental and social assessment and management of the projects, compliance with
environmental and social requirements was satisfactory.

Financial Management and Disbursements

Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA)

The FMA was established when ITF was created in 2003. The main purpose of the FMA was to
help the Bank monitor the physical and the financial progress, and the recipients’ compliance
with financial management and procurement procedures. As part of this function, the FMA
provided on-the-job training to the PMTs. The FMA visited ECIRP sites throughout Iraq every
quarter and carried out physical verification with digital photographs of ongoing works, alerting
the Bank to deficiencies in quality and implementation. The Bank Task Team for the ECIRP kept
close communication with the FMA during implementation, and invited the FMA to participate
in all supervision missions.

The work of the FMA was very beneficial to the Project. The FMA performance demonstrates
that, in contexts where the Bank cannot carry out normal supervision missions, the Bank can
mitigate risks for its program by employing an agent to monitor physical implementation of
projects and verify that funds are spent for the purpose intended and in accordance with Bank
rules.

Financial Management/Disbursement

The financial management was generally of good quality. Capacity was built through the
intensive training. The recipient MOWR was required to maintain an appropriate and adequate
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements
adequate to separately reflect operations, resources, and expenditures of the project. The grant
agreement also committed the recipient to have financial statements of the project audited for
each fiscal year by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank following internationally accepted
standards.

The fiscal management risks and mitigation measures had been properly identified. The critical
factors were: (i) ongoing insecurity, which prevented on-site Bank supervision and assessments,
including financial management assessment; (ii) the Bank’s limited knowledge of Iraq’s public
financial management systems, controls and procedures; (iii) the limited knowledge on the part
of Iraqi authorities of Bank policies and guidelines; (iv) MOWR making available on a timely
basis financial resources to honor payments below the value of US$10,000; (v) difficult
communication and flow of information between worksites and PMT, which could delay



                                               11
payments; and (vi) inefficiencies in Iraq’s banking system that delay payment and transfer of
funds to contractors, suppliers, or MOWR.

The project financial management improved substantially over time and the rating was upgraded
from “MS” to “S” due to improvements in FM practices and commitment of MOWR to the
project. Some of the factors responsible for this were: (i) the competency of staff of PMT,
including the financial management team; (ii) the commitment of MOWR; (iii) availability of
funds arranged to pre-finance operating expenses; (iv) accurate and timely accounting and
reporting; (v) positive results of the FMA reviews; and (vi) the timely and clean opinion of the
external auditor of the project financial statements and the compliance with legal agreement.

There was a shortage of Iraqi currency and it took a long time to make payment to contractors for
the work done. To address this unnecessary and debilitating delay, especially for small
contractors, on the recommendation of PMT, the Bank agreed to make payment in US dollars
and the threshold for direct payment was raised from US$10,000 to US$20,000. This facilitated
and expedited the disbursement, and further reduced the element of uncertainty of exchange rate
fluctuations.

The PMT maintained a fixed asset register of the goods purchased with the grant funding and
performed annual stock-taking. The Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) were prepared
in accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and submitted in a
timely manner. The Project’s accounts were subject to annual audit performed by an
international audit firm acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with acceptable Terms of
Reference (TORs) to the Bank. All audit reports were regularly submitted to the Bank without
delays. The auditor issued unqualified “clean” opinions on all issued audited financial statements.

The FMA that was hired by the Bank for fiduciary purposes was effective. FMA staff visited the
PMT two to three times per month on average to: (i) review the PMTs’ IFRs and reconcile the
PMTs records to the Bank records; (ii) monitor unclaimed expenditures; (iii) verify disbursement
plan updates; and (iv) provide on-the-job training in FM matters. The FMA included the PMT-
prepared IFRs in their quarterly reports, as well as the adjusted IFRs (with their review
comments and recommendations for the PMT IFRs). The FMA also conducted, on a sample
basis, pre-screening and post- review of withdrawal applications for direct payments and
reimbursements.

Procurement

Works and goods were procured in accordance with the respective procedures approved by the
Bank in general. The procurement plans were revised and updated from time to time and Bank’s
approval was provided as necessary. Principal items procured by the project were civil works
consisting of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, equipment consisting of earth moving
machinery. All procurement for ECIRP was carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s
“Guidelines: Procurements under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004; and
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreements.




                                               12
Procurement of works was done using a National Standard Bidding Document (SBD)
satisfactory to the Bank. Smaller works were procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded to the lowest bidder with requisite experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully on the basis of quotations obtained from these qualified domestic contractors in
response to written invitation.

The project supported the training of the MOWR/PMT procurement staff for an estimated
duration of six weeks in two cycles of three weeks each. Procurement activities were carried out
by the MOWR through a Procurement Officer within the PMT who was guided by a
procurement management consultant throughout project implementation.

PMT was able to develop sufficient capacity to manage procurement following Bank protocols
due to extensive internal and external training and capacity building initiatives.

Based on the Bank’s ex-post procurement review, the procurement process followed by the
Government was satisfactory, albeit initially quite slow, and the procurement risk for the project
was rated as moderate. Filing was available and well kept; time allowed for submission of bids
was generally sufficient and bids were being opened in public at the stipulated time immediately
after bid submission. Minutes of bid openings and records of bid security were maintained.

There was one case of mis-procurement and the World Bank cancelled US$1.5 million for one
procurement package because the members of the Bids Evaluation Committee (BEC) from
MOWR visited the factories of the two lowest bidders. This is not permissible under the World
Bank Procurement guidelines, although in compliance with GOI Policy to ensure quality control.
The Bank recognized that no irregularity was committed under the GOI policy.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation and drainage
system and water supply for domestic and commercial use is a continuous operation of the
Government of Iraq and is independent of any development assistance, or duration of any project,
so explicit transition arrangements are not required. These are existing schemes which are under
the responsibility of O&M directorate. The directorates have all the required budget and staff to
manage the schemes (Headworks and canals).

This was a community based project of small and medium scale schemes. In KRG farmers are
already collecting irrigation service fee for maintenance of tertiary irrigation system. With
financial support from Japan International Cooperation Agency, MOWR, Ministry of Agriculture
and Ministry of Planning have introduced the pilot Water Users Association (WUA), and had
facilitated joint management of the available water resources equitably by the community WUA
members.

The MOWR is responsible for the maintenance (from its own budget) for all canals (and the
associated structures) with discharge exceeding 400 lit/sec, while the farmers are responsible for
the rest. The MOWR has established maintenance departments equipped with the necessary




                                               13
equipment to take care of all above mentioned work according to their yearly budgets and
priorities.

The project achievements have successfully offered a clear demonstration and path to scale-up
the technical and institutional measures into both irrigation and agriculture sectors. MOWR and
PMT gained extensive experience from the implementation of the Project. The good practices
and lessons will also be scaled up through a new, follow-on project. With the Bank’s support, a
Japan-funded PHRD grant of US$ 880,000 was approved for the MOWR to prepare a
comprehensive US$ 120 million IBRD operation for the Energy Irrigation and Drainage
Rehabilitation and Water Resources Project (EIDRWRMP). Consultancy studies on water
resources management, irrigation/drainage and on-farm reclamation, and dams/barrages safety
were initiated.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High
The project was designed to generate near-term employment while addressing urgent rural
irrigation, drainage and water infrastructure rehabilitation needs through a flexible program of
labor-intensive civil works to restore and improve rural water supply and irrigation infrastructure.
The project design was highly relevant, sound and focused.

The objectives were and remain highly relevant to Iraq’s priorities to rebuild its essential
infrastructure and services. One of the goals of the Iraq National Development Plan (NDP) 2010-
2014 is to reduce poverty by 30 percent from 2007 levels by focusing on the provision of basic
services and rehabilitating and rebuilding the infrastructure. The objectives are also consistent
with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period FY13-FY16. Regarding
implementation, all project activities were executed as designed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory
The project fully achieved its two development objectives. Given the attainment or surpassing of
virtually all of the PDO indicators and most of intermediate indicators in general as discussed
below in detail (and presented in the results framework analysis in the Datasheet), the
achievement of PDO is rated satisfactory.

ECIRP has achieved its first objective to generate short-term employment through
rehabilitation of rural irrigation, drainage and water infrastructure. The project PDO targets were
fully achieved and exceeded. At the project completion, about 323,538 man days of employment
were created during the project period alone, compared with the target of 305,500 man-days.
This was 106% of the expected target at the project appraisal. During implementation,
communities and farmers participated in the selection of subprojects/interventions, construction
of the irrigation and drainage infrastructures and rural water supply and bridges and connecting
roads, and worked together to improve their agriculture production and marketing conditions and



                                                14
communal livelihoods. In addition, the increased water productivities and agriculture production
created opportunities for further generation of longer term employment for on-farm activities,
but also for non-farm economic activities (increased more off-farm employment opportunities of
a permanent nature). If these numbers of employment were quantified in the project areas, the
total employment created by the project would be much higher than the achieved value shown
above.

The project had reached a large number of rural beneficiaries, and fully achieved and exceeded
the second project objective to address urgent rural irrigation, drainage and water
infrastructure rehabilitation needs. Through the implementation of rehabilitation and
modernization of small irrigation, drainage and rural water supply infrastructure, the project
served 193,305 water users, which is 118% of the original target (163,750). The number of
women beneficiaries (77,302) also exceeded the original target (24,562) by 314%. Women play
an increasingly important role in Iraqi agriculture, and more recently as heads of households, due
to loss of the husband in conflict or by emigration. The target was exceeded through the
increased subproject investments (the number of the subprojects increased from 29 to 41), that
expanded the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage areas from 97,000 Ha to 119,288 Ha (123% of
the expected target). This is important in Iraq’s post conflict situation where more than 30% of
the population live in rural areas and depend upon agriculture. The secure irrigation and proper
drainage infrastructure of the type provided by ECIRP is among the most critical infrastructure
needed. At the project completion, the number of beneficiaries (9300) accessing canals for
domestic water use also exceeded the original target (5400) by 172%.

An assured water supply motivates high input and high yielding agriculture, especially in dry and
hot climates. Rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage network led to increased irrigated crop
production areas, crop intensity, yield and total agricultural production. As described in the
Section 3.3 below, at project completion, the average cropping intensity significantly improved
from the baseline of 80% to 100% and exceeded the original ECIRP target of 85%. The average
crop yields of wheat and barley more than doubled (from 1,250 kg (base line) to 2,803 and 2600
kg respectively). The targets for cropping intensity and yields were not fully achieved in the
entire project area, as farming communities make necessary investments in improved technology
and inputs only once irrigation is secured, and there usually is some time lag in the achievement
of full potential of agricultural production. However, the final M&E results indicate that many
subprojects (like Khabat Canal, Al-Dueheya canal, Sedikan A and B canals, and Kak Ahmad
canals) have already exceeded the final target and achieved crop intensities between 130% and
179% (against the 120% target). In most cases, cropping intensity has increased in the range of
20% to 70%, and the target yield of wheat (3 tons/hectare) had been achieved or exceeded in
more than 40 percent of the total subproject areas. In addition to the above, as described the
details in section 3.3 below, the project has had a significant impact on the food security and
local economy.

Similarly, according to the M&E results, the soil salinity (ppm) decreased from 3.4 to 2.9 (97 %
of the expected target), although the target of total soluble salt (TSS) of 2.8 was not fully
achieved during the life of project, as it depends on many factors, including soil type, water
quality, types of crops and crop management practices.




                                               15
The quality of the construction was in general satisfactory for the main canal system
improvements. Quality control was ensured by MOWR and FMA, as well as beneficiaries.
Adequate O&M funds and institutional arrangements were already in place in the field for all
irrigation and drainage facilities rehabilitated under the project to ensure the sustainability of the
project outputs and outcomes.

The processed and analyzed images and photos attest to the satisfactory impact of the project.
The detailed achievements of the Results Indicators are presented in the Data Sheet and in
Annexes 2 and 3.

The project did not only generate short-term job creation and local agricultural outcomes, but
also helped lay the groundwork for irrigation and drainage sector rehabilitation and reform. The
project is generally seen as one of the best, if not the best performer amongst the ITF program in
Iraq. It was implemented efficiently, experienced high disbursement rates and achieved
effectively development outcomes. Beyond the PDO, the project contributed to nurturing social
cohesion when it was most required in the country. This was one of the few ITF operations that
contributed to conflict resolution and a reduction in the social tensions because of the
participatory nature of the process and the extensive beneficiary consultations at the village and
community level.

3.3 Efficiency

High
The project was highly efficient in delivering outcomes to the targeted beneficiaries. The costs
involved in achieving the project objectives were below original estimates and well within
recognized norms for irrigation rehabilitation projects. The total project cost was estimated at
appraisal as US$46 million (US$20 million for original financing and US$26 million for the
additional financing). At project completion, the actual total cost was US$43.567 million (94.7%
of the appraisal cost). The cost savings of about US$2.2 million from consultant services and
US$1.8 million from project management were all used to implement additional sub-projects,
thus allowing the project to reach 29,555 more beneficiaries, rehabilitate 22,288 additional
hectares and generate close to 23,038 extra employment days. The average actual unit cost per
hectare rehabilitated was US$365 (ranged from the average US$181/ha-US$723/ha in the
original project and the additional financing respectively). The detailed unit cost for each
individual subproject is presented in Annex 2. The average actual cost is well below the
appraisal estimated range of US$ 500 to 1000/ha. A cost of US$365 per hectare also compares
favorably with other irrigation rehabilitation projects implemented globally. 3

As this was an emergency project, a full economic and financial analysis was not required as part
of appraisal. However, the project was deemed viable based on the expected project benefits to a


3
    “Costs and Performance of Irrigation Projects: A Comparison of Sub-Saharan Africa and Other Developing Regions”
    IFWMI Research Report 109, 2007. The study analyzes 314 irrigation projects implemented from 1967 to 2003 in 50
    countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America supported by the World Bank, African Development Bank and the International
    Fund for Agriculture Development. In this sample, the average unit cost per hectare rehabilitated is US$2,882 (ranging from
    US$1,008        in     South       Asia     to     US$8,233      in      Africa      –     all      in    2000      prices).
    (http://www.ifad.org/events/hs/doc/irrigation_projects.pdf).


                                                             16
large number of poor rural households in terms of increased employment, agriculture production
and income. This would be achieved through: (i) better utilization of existing old irrigation
schemes due to improved equity in water distribution; (ii) decrease in water logged areas due to
the reduced water loss by seepage and increase in irrigation and crop areas; (iii) increased
cropping intensity, yield, crop production and income; and (iv) reduced O&M costs. As per the
design, the project generated substantial economic and financial benefits in all of the above
regards. Based on the improvement of basic irrigation and drainage infrastructures described
above, the agriculture production and output value increased significantly in project areas by the
time of project completion fueled by an expansion of irrigated crop areas (especially of high
value-added cash crop), and a resulting increase in crop yields.

At project completion, the average cropping intensity significantly improved from the baseline of
80% to 100%, exceeding the original target of 85%. Although the improved crop intensity
varied across subprojects due in particular to different water resources as well as the timing of
subproject completion, in most cases, cropping intensity increased at about 20% to 75%, which
is significant given the short time since completion of many of the subprojects. Many of the
earlier subprojects (e.g., Khabat Canal, Al-Dueheya canal, Sedikan A and B canals, and Kak
Ahmad canals) have already exceeded the revised target and achieved crop intensities at
about130% to 179%. Cropping intensity in many subproject areas (e.g. in Erbil) increased from
below 25% to 100%. This is a remarkable improvement and the subprojects have resulted in a
substantial increase of irrigated agriculture production in the entire project area (the total wheat
and barley production increased from 43,202 ton to 208,573 ton).

Due to the improvements in irrigation and drainage system, increased irrigation reliability,
improved soil conditions and agricultural practices, the M&E data from the 17 subprojects (with
the available data) show that the total wheat production increased from 25,521 ton to 105,011 ton
(by about 411 percent), and barley production increased from 17,681 ton to 103,562 ton (by
about 585.7 percent). The total annual incremental crop output and its value for wheat and barley
reached about 65,388 ton and ID 29,288.9 million at project completion (about US$23.43
million). The detailed annual incremental crop outputs for wheat and barley in each individual
subproject area are presented in Annex 3.

The increased crop intensity attributed to the improvement of the cropping pattern in the project
area, facilitated a shift from the traditional low value grain production to more high value cash
crop production, and contributed to the dramatic increases in farm household income. The
project M&E data showed for example that in Zaab subproject area, the total crop area increased
from 2,400 to 2,600 hectares, of which the barley area was reduced by 475 hectares and the
vegetable and beans areas increased by 525 hectares, leading to an increase in cash crop
production from 0% to 20% of the total crop areas and an incremental income by ID 1.148
million per person (at about US$918). In the Dueaihiya subproject, the total crop area increased
from 5,550 to 6,250 hectares, of which the vegetable and orchard area increased by 500 hectares,
equal to a 71 percent increase in cash crops, compared to a 29 percent increase in grain crops.
This contributed to an overall increase in income of ID 141,000/person (about US$112). In the
Khabat Canal subproject, the crop area was increased several folds (from 272 to 1,300 hectares),
and the orchard production area was expanded five times compared to the original size. In this
area, the per capita income increased by ID 2.67 million (about US$2,133).



                                                17
The M&E data also indicates that the average crop yield of wheat and barley increased from
1,131 and 779 kg to 2,830 and 2,100 kg respectively (about 232 percent and 257 percent
increase). The target yield of wheat (3 tons/hectare) was achieved or exceeded in about 40
percent of the subproject areas, although it had not yet been fully achieved in the entire project
area by 2013, as some subprojects were just completed. Once irrigation is secured, the farming
communities make necessary investments in improved technology and inputs and there usually is
thus some time lag in achievement of the full potential of agricultural productivity increases. The
results of the earlier projects suggest the potential yield increases in other subproject areas in the
future. The detailed annual incremental yields for wheat and barley in each individual subproject
area were presented in Annex 3.

The increase in production of various crops has also provided substantial additional crop residues
and forage, which has been used as coarse feed for increased livestock production and for
incorporation into soils to improve their organic content, fertility and water holding capacity. A
proper analysis of farming systems may suggest even more benefits accruing from crop
diversification and adoption of higher value crops, etc. It is thus safe to conclude that the project
was a worthwhile undertaking.

The implementation results showed that lining coupled with improvements in drainage have
reduced the incidence of water seepage (6-12% of the flow), increased water in drainage,
decreased the acreage affected by water logging and consequently salt accumulation in the crop
root zone. Lining irrigation canals led to: (i) the reduction of water lost by seepage leading to
reduction of water logging; (ii) more equitable water distribution and reduction in transmission
losses of water and time; (iii) the reduction of drainage cost; (iv) the reduction of canal
dimensions; and (v) the limitation of weed growth. Overall, the project improved the water use
efficiency and reduced O&M costs for the irrigation and drainage system. The fiscal impact of
the project, as expected was positive through the created employment and increased economic
activity at local levels. Increased crop production creates opportunities for non-farm economic
activity, and creates more off-farm employment opportunities of a permanent nature.
Construction of bridges and connecting roads improved living conditions and connectivity,
essential to improved agro-production and marketing conditions and markedly increased farmers’
income. An increase in tax revenue as a result of the increased agricultural production,
employment and the other economic activities is also expected. If these benefits would have been
quantified in the project economic and financial analysis, the total project benefits would have
been much higher than what discussed above. Annex 3 provides details for the achieved project
benefits based on the project monitoring information.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory
The GOI was fully committed to the project objectives of rehabilitating dilapidated irrigation
infrastructure while creating short-term employment. These objectives remain highly relevant to
the current country priorities and to the Bank assistance strategy. The flexible program of labor-
intensive civil works ensured that the objectives were effectively achieved and delivered with
high efficiency. As discussed in the Section 3.2 above, the project had exceeded all PDO targets,



                                                 18
and achieved, exceeded and/or closed to the target values of intermediate indicators (as in case of
cropping intensity, yields and TSS). The project attained all development objectives, with the
significant agriculture production benefits in excess of the opportunity cost of capital.

In addition, the rating is further justified by the strong demonstration effect of the project.
ECIRP was rated as the best performing project by Independent Review of ITF interventions
conducted by GHK. The decentralized approach together with local collaboration and shared
ownership of completed works demonstrated and supported community building and the
development of social cohesion and trust. “All beneficiaries interviewed in each governorate
visited by the Iraqi consultant’s field team expressed satisfaction with subprojects, and indicated
that their communities had benefited from them. 4”

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The ECIRP design addressed poverty alleviation by stressing the creation of local employment
by using labor intensive interventions successfully, and created about 180,338 man days during
the original grant and a cumulative total of 323,538 man-days by the closure of Additional
Financing.

As mentioned above, building and rehabilitation of local infrastructure with community
participation and hiring of local manpower for project implementation was instrumental in
building community cohesion, most likely, because of the awareness of the objective of
subprojects, which was for the benefit of the community. The farmers through the project
investment (i) improved their income by providing job opportunity during project
implementation; (ii) increased their agricultural productivity by providing sufficient water for
their cropping; and, (iii) improved their living by providing sufficient water for domestic use.
Implementation of subprojects initially provided employment and ensured irrigation for
improved crop production, thus, improving the food security, farm household income and
livelihoods.

Gender: Though less acknowledged, in most agrarian societies, women have traditionally
played an important role. Furthermore, in Iraq, there is an increase in women headed households
due to male migration to cities for jobs, and due to deaths during the conflict. Even in normal
times, besides domestic responsibilities, women have always tended to livestock, from collecting
crop residues to feeding them to milking, processing (making yogurt, cheese and butter for
household consumption as well as for marketing), collecting dung for fertilizer and fuel, care for
sick, pregnant and lactating animals; and with the exception of heavy labor – tillage and land
preparation, women have responsibility in seeding, fertilization, weed control and harvesting,




4
    GHK Independent Review of the Iraq Trust Fund 2011 pp 34-35.




                                                   19
and post harvest activities, mostly for vegetables, but also for field crops. Women some time
tend to spend more time in the fields than men.

While for widows and for female headed households, women may contribute up to 80% of farm
labor, with only heavy tillage outsourced to hired male labor. In general, in northern areas like
Sulaymaniyah and Erbil, about 30 – 35% of agricultural labor is furnished by women, while in
the south, in Najaf and Kirkuk, it is up to 75%.

It is hard to measure women contribution in farm activities percentage wise without proper
gender analysis, and active participation of social specialists, which was not possible due to the
security situation, but it is safe to conclude that in the case of women headed households, women
contribution is up to 80%, with the rest going to hired labor for tillage and land preparation and
mechanical harvesting, and in case of men headed households it is safe to put the women
contribution up to (55-75%) especially in central and southern areas, with a lower percentage in
northern areas. However, for cultural reasons, in spite of the labor and income contribution of
women to the farming households, men have control over decision-making. Overall, according to
the project M&E results, about 77,301 women beneficiaries (314 percent of the expected target)
had accessed to the new and rehabilitated irrigation and drainage services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project had attached great importance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the local
institution, especially for MOWR and PMT, where little or none existed by providing technical
assistance. This was achieved through an intensive training program, both local and external
where staff from the two agencies received rigorous training in financial management,
procurement, disbursement, project management, monitoring and evaluation and others. The
ECIRP was able to train conduct/arrange 4,330 man-days of trainings/workshops, both internal
and external, against a target of 3,460 man days. The institutional strengthening and capacity
building under the ECIRP is partly to thank for moving this Grant from an initial problem project
to the best performer under the ITF.

The original grant had significant financial provisions for preparation of feasibility studies for
the subprojects that had yet to be identified, both for the ECIRP and beyond the life of this Grant.
However, the PMT staff diligently carried out feasibilities acceptable to the Bank, made good
progress in procurement and project management, thus eliminating the need for consultants to
assist with feasibility preparation. Thus this amount allocated for consultants was re-allocated for
unidentified subprojects, from US$9.5 million to US$14.7 million, and implemented 22
subprojects against the original goal of 16.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project’s focus was not only on job creation and local socioeconomic impacts, but also
helped lay the groundwork for irrigation and drainage sector rehabilitation and reform.

At the local level, through the rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure and ensured irrigation
water, there was an improvement of community cohesion. The water User Association and



                                                20
groups were formed on a pilot basis (e.g. in Karbala to manage tertiary irrigation system). It
played an important role for the farmers to participate in the overall irrigated water resources
management. According to GHK, the reports from the field also indicated that the involvement
of beneficiary households and water users in the project preparation and implementation had
made this project distinctive among the ITF projects, and the use of community-based
mechanism helped to avoid violence.

Canal lining has decreased seepage losses with localized impacts on reduction in water logging
in high seepage locales. However, to have reduced water logging impacts on larger areas, an
intervention on a river-basin-wide becomes necessary. Seeing the success in achieving the
ECIRP, GOI is in the process of preparing a scaled up project to address water resource
management in the country with support from the Japanese PHRD Grant.

In Iraq, the role of women has evolved progressively as described in section 3.4. The ECIRP had
not provided for such consideration due to the condition at inception stage, where job creation
was a more immediate concern. Accounting for gender role transition in Iraqi society through
gender analysis in future development endeavor would be useful.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
    Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
Due to the structure of the project and commitment and ownership of the project by PMT and
MOWR, as well as the ownership by the communities, a higher degree of sustainability is
ensured, especially the political and security environment does not deteriorate. MOWR’s
preparation of a follow-up operation further indicates the Government’s ownership. Performance
of PMT and MOWR in developing their capacities in procurement and financial management
and M&E provide a further indication of sustainability. The risk is therefore rated only as
Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank preparation team was highly effective in identifying and designing a project aimed to
tackle the most urgent development issue in post conflict Iraq. The emphasis was creating
employment while rehabilitating critical infrastructure for improving livelihoods. The Bank
adequately responded to country and sector with the objective to help Iraq’s development and
reconstruction priorities.




                                              21
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
Like other Bank operations in Iraq, ECIRP was supervised remotely by the Bank from Amman,
Beirut and Cairo, although schemes located in KRG were visited by the Bank’s supervision team.
As usual for an emergency operation and country in conflict, most of the supervision was
through the FMA which served as ears and eyes of the Bank.

FMA had played a crucial role in monitoring procurement, auditing and in verifying that the
PMT and MOWR conducted business according to internationally acceptable standard. FMA
limited itself to checking the performance of these functions after the effect and reporting to the
Bank. FMA ideally could have been more proactive in coaching, advising training and
motivating the staff of PMT in the performance of project related activities, especially in
situation where the Bank was unable to supervise the project. Subsequent Bank missions
strengthened implementation outcomes through capacity building, including technical training,
problem solving, and knowledge exchange workshops. Additionally, Bank timely responded to
GOI’s requests to assist with reallocation of funds and approval of extensions etc. to speed up
implementation and disbursement progress. To respond to a slow project disbursement due to the
threshold of US$10,000 (that payment were made by the recipients from its own sources, and
were reimbursed by the Bank to MOWR upon presentation of proof of payment and a signed
withdrawal application. This kept disbursement slow), the Bank team and FM specialist
discussed and agreed with clients to raise the threshold for direct payment from US$10,000 to
US$20,000, that had expedited the disbursement. The Bank also assisted the government with
provision of AF to scale up and development intervention and further improved the PDO through
the improvement in the project design. For community based type of projects, it is prudent to
include social scientists in the project teams.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank Team played a decisive role in ensuring quality at entry and in resolving problems and
identifying opportunities during supervision. The Bank had a determinant input into the success
of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The Government’s strong support for the project and its objectives from preparation through
completion was a key factor in the success of this operation. The Government strongly supported
the PDO outcomes during preparation and implementation, and continuously demonstrated a
strong ownership and commitment to project objectives.




                                                22
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
As the implementing agency, PMT supported effective implementation of project activities, even
during periods of political unrest. The performance of PMT is commendable. PMT was fast in
learning Bank’s procedures on procurement and FM, to an extent that the staff produced
feasibilities for subprojects in a timely fashion. During implementation, the issues were resolved
quickly and effectively. Financial management, procurement, reimbursement, compliance with
Bank procedures and policies and other fiduciary requirements were also met effectively. In
addition, PMT was effective in organizing stakeholder meetings for selection of subprojects in a
participatory manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
Overall recipient’s performance is rated as satisfactory. Project approaches are being adopted
more widely in the follow-up project.

6. Lessons Learned

•   To achieve the PDO, institutional capacity is of critical importance. It is crucial not only for
    the PMT to better understand Bank’s operational policies and procedures to better manage
    project implementation, but also for bringing the best global practice to the client country.
    The Bank’s role in capacity building and providing FMA support to PMT was also crucial,
    which helped to build up a dedicated and highly professional PMT.
•   To maximize the project economic and social benefits, it is important to integrate the civil
    works development and rehabilitating irrigation and drainage infrastructure with improved
    agriculture and farming systems with farmer consultation for maximum synergies.
•   The project results show that small local contractors are better in delivering development
    objectives in shortest possible time, with greater involvement of the local community and
    smaller duration also prevented issues arising from price change.
•   Considering the current state of much of the Irrigation & Drainage infrastructure in the
    country, for rehabilitation purposes, a diagnostic performance assessment approach has to be
    adopted, allowing an in-depth analysis of major shortcomings of an entire irrigation or
    drainage system in order to propose the necessary improvements in light of an overall
    objective of restoring capacity, increasing efficiency, and improving O&M.
•   Early beneficiary participation in water management issues. Beneficiary participation, based
    on a preliminary agreement with the water users at the early stages of project's
    implementation, would have allowed faster implementation of the irrigation works especially
    those related to the main canals. Direct involvement of the beneficiaries in planning and
    implementation of O&M systems, even at a later stage, creates a sense of ownership among
    farmers, which is instrumental in achieving sustainable water management.



                                                23
•   Development progress in post conflict environments is rarely predictable or linear and cannot
    be fully mitigated through design. The imperative was to respond rapidly in this a post
    conflict situation with the objective of creating employment opportunities at grass root levels,
    repairing and/or rehabilitating critical support infrastructure, irrigation and drainage in this
    case. In such situations, the risks must be monitored continuously for course correction.
•   Variations in the operating context and in levels of institutional capacity reduce opportunity
    to adopt standard approaches nationally, but can encourage effective and creative solutions
    well-calibrated to the local conditions. ECIRP, from the earliest stage, emphasized
    community consultation with the widest range of stakeholders including local leaders and
    community groups to address local concerns and benefit from local experiences, building
    ownership. The Grant equally emphasized creation of local employment which was a major
    concern due to rampant high unemployment.
•   The need for a dedicated and highly professional FMA. The project implementation and
    supervision experiences showed that the work of the FMA had been very important and
    beneficial to the achievement of the Project outputs and outcomes. Especially in contexts
    where the Bank cannot carry out normal supervision missions, the Bank can mitigate risks
    for its program by employing FMA to monitor the project physical and financial
    implementation progress and the recipients’ compliance with financial management and
    procurement procedures. The FMA performance had demonstrated that FMA was able to
    support project implementation and supervision through its project field visit every quarter to
    carry out physical verification with digital photographs of ongoing works, alerting the Bank
    to deficiencies in quality and implementation. The Bank Task Team for the ECIRP kept close
    communication with the FMA during the project implementation and supervision. In
    addition, as part of the FMA function, the FMA also provided intensive on-the-job training to
    the PMTs on project procurement, FM and M&E works through their sites visit.
•   Despite an adverse operating environment, infrastructure rehabilitation activities can be
    implemented cost effectively.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies: Not applicable.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors: Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: Not applicable.
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                           Actual/Latest
                                                     Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
                 Components                                                  Estimate
                                                      (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                                          (USD millions)
Part A: Implementation of the 4 already
                                                                 2.50               2.43           97.1
identified subprojects.
Part B: Implementation of new subprojects to be
                                                                10.50              16.04          152.7
identified.
Part C: Consultant’s Services for the
Preparation of Feasibility Studies and Design                    3.00              0.081           2.7
Packages.
Part D: Project Management and Capacity
                                                                 2.00               0.49           24.7
Building.
Price Contingencies                                              2.00               0.00            0.0
                                Total (Phase 1)                 20.00              19.04           95.2

Part A: Implementation of selected subprojects
aimed at rehabilitation and modernization of
irrigation, drainage, and rural water supply                    24.25              23.77           98.0
facilities in the north, middle and south of Iraq,
including provision of the required equipment.
Subcomponent 1: Rehabilitation and
modernization of small irrigation, drainage, and                20.25              21.55          106.4
rural water supply infrastructure.
Subcomponent 2: Provision of Equipment and
                                                                 4.00               2.21           55.4
Goods.

Part B: Provision of technical assistance and
training to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity in
water resources and irrigation management,
                                                                 0.37               0.36           95.9
participatory irrigation management,
information technology and construction
supervision.

Part C: Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity
for project management, monitoring and
                                                                 0.73               0.41           55.5
evaluation, including financing of Operating
Costs.
                                 Total AF Costs                 26.00              24.53           94.3
                                                                46.00              43.57           94.7

* On March 16, 2010, the Bank cancelled US$1.5 million as a “Mis-procurement Declaration” that related to the
  contract “supplying five batching plants” (see the details in procurement section under Section 2.4 of the
   main ICR report).




                                                          25
(b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal
                                                  Type of                         Actual/Latest Percentage of
              Components                                             Estimate
                                                Cofinancing                       Estimate (USD  Appraisal
                                                                   (USD millions)
                                                                                     millions)
                                              Counterpart
Borrower                                                               0.00           0.00           0.00
                                             contributions
International Development Association –      Iraq Reconstruction
Special Financing: Iraq Reconstruction Trust Trust Fund                46.00          43.57         94.72
Fund
                                    Total                              46.00          43.57         94.72




                                                          26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Table 1: Key Outputs and Outcomes by Component
                                                                                                            Percentage of
                  Indicator                          Unit      Expected Targets      Achieved Results
                                                                                                               Target
Main Output Indicators
Part A: Implementation of Rehabilitation and Modernization of Selected I&D Subprojects
1: Rehabilitation/Modernization of Small I&D and Rural Water Supply Infrastructures
Total subproject selected/developed        No.                           29                           41                215.8
Canal Lining                                  Km                            130.4                  166.6                127.8
Cleared drainage canals                       Km                            268.8                  721.8                268.5
Rehabilitated canals                          Km                              172                    172                100.0
Car Bridge                                    No.                              63                     72                114.3
Foot Bridge                                   No                               57                     68                119.3
Hydraulic regulating structures               No                              104                    126                121.2
Farm turn out (WUAs)                          No.                             446                    560                125.6
Wells (Karezes)                               No.                              34                     34                100.0
Pipe or precast canals                        No.                            4.15                  38.77                934.2
Drinking water supply works
Number of domestic water users                No                             5,400                   7,359              136.3
The wells (Karezes) and lined canals in North of Iraq are mainly for the drinking water. Also the lined canal provide
sufficient steady amount of water for the treatment plant
2: Provision of Equipment and Goods
Earth Moving equipment                        No                                8                       8               100.0
Workshop equipment                            No                               14                     14                100.0
Vehicles                                      No                               19                     19                100.0
Hydraulic excavators                          No                               11                     11                100.0
Part B: TA & Training to Strengthen Recipient’s Capacity for Irrigation Water Management
Consultancy services                          Man/month                        15                     32                213.3
Training                                      Man days                      3,460                  4,330                125.1
Part C: Strengthening Recipient’s Capacity for Project Management
Computers                                   No                                 29                     29                100.0
Cell phone                                    No                               35                     28                 80.0
Photocopiers                                  No                                3                       3               100.0
Main Outcome Indicators
Employment creation                           Man days                    305,500                323,538                105.9
Beneficiaries                                 No.                         163,750                193,305                118.0
Improved Irrigation and drainage area         Ha                           97,000                119,288                123.0
Female water users provided with
                                              No                           24,562                 77,302                314.7
new/improved I&D services
Improved yield for wheat/barley               T/ha             3/3 (baseline:1.25)                2.8/2.6          93.3/86.7
Improved cropping intensity                   %                120 (baseline: 80)                    100                 83.3
Soil Salinity                                 TSS%             2.8 (baseline: 3.4)                    2.9                96.6




                                                             27
Table 2 (a): The Summary of Key Outputs and Outcomes Achieved by Individual
Subproject (for original ECIRP)

                                               Improved                                Unit
                               Rehablitation                  Employment Beneficiary
No Subproject in ECIRP                         I&D area                              cost/ha
                                cost (US$)                       (no.)      (no.)
                                                 (ha)                                 (US$)
1    Dawayia/1st Stage               582,234        2,700            4,000      1,650     216

2    18 Kahrezes                     621,096            289          4,913      2,327   2,149
3    14 Kahrezes                     477,598            384          3,725      1,600   1,244
4    Rumaitha/1st Stage              695,492        2,500           10,400      1,620     278
5    AL-Kargholiya/1st stage       1,048,217        3,000            6,930      4,200     349
6    AL-Mazzak Canal                 899,951       16,420            6,520      7,950      54
7    Bani-Hassan/1st Stage         1,319,076            770          9,310      1,800    1713
8    AL-Haroniya Canal               691,585        1,518           11,500      3,500     456
9    AL-Dueheya Canal                818,727        4,500           21,500     11,000     182
10   Musaib South Drain            1,157,430       12,500            8,848     30,000      92
11   Khabat-AskiKalak                861,360        5,000            7,400      3,300     172
12   BakhaHanara Canal               615,823            675          4,000      1,120     912
13   Qaitool Canal                   550,262            500          7,500       500    1,101
14   Gofki, Meslaka, Barhole         758,943            570         12,600      3,840   1,331
15   Tooz Canals 516/519             338,519        1,310           13,500      9,000     258
16   Abood AL-Gharbi               1,062,209        6,300            6,842     20,000     169
17   AL-HamzzaAlSharqi Drain         220,683        7,500            3,500      2,400      29
18   Daghara - Huriya                520,910       17,500            3,400     24,000      30
19   Seven Canals                    758,595        1,050            7,100     12,500     722
20   Zaab /1st Stage                 974,037        1,750            7,542      2,500     557
21   Bani-Hassan/2nd Stage           724,860        1,150            9,308       778      630

22   K11B2D7 in Lower Khalis         516,571        1,500           10,000      7,000     344

Total 22 ECIRP Subprojects        16,214,178       89,386          180,338    152,585     181




                                                   28
Table 2 (b): The Summary of Key Outputs and Outcomes Achieved by Individual
Subproject (for Additional Financing and Overall
ECIRP)
                                            Improved
                            Rehablitation                 Employment Beneficiary Unit
No    Subproject in AF                      I&D area
                             cost (US$)                      (no.)      (no.)    cost/ha
                                              (ha)
  1 Sedikan/Part A                842,253           215         6,300        750    3,917
  2 Sedikan/ Part B               869,528           220         6,900        750    3,952
  3 Kak-Ahmad Canal             1,354,031           250         7,500      2,000    5,416
  4 Bani-Hassan/3rd Stage       2,055,481        2,490         13,200      4,780     825
  5 Canal 521 in Tooz             250,475           550         2,300        600     455
  6 Dawayia/ 2nd Stage          1,122,435        3,750          1,800      1,700     299
  7 Al-Qassim Canal             1,356,966        3,140         10,200      1,500     432
  8 Shaikh Taweel                 389,465           125         4,500        700    3,115
  9 Zaab / 2nd Stage            1,879,711        3,000         11,400      3,000     627
 10 Kargholia/2nd Stage         1,151,179        1,250          7,500      4,000      921
 11 KanyShereen                   555,407          337          9,600      1,200    1,648
 12 Rumaitha 2nd Stage          2,454,645        3,750         14,900      6,000      655
 13 Al-Rushdeya Canal           1,576,074        2,950         10,000      5,000     534
 14 Zaab/3rd Stage                940,874        2,190          6,000      1,590     430
 15 Al-Dohan/1st Stage            757,393           910         3,600        660     832
 16 Al-Dohan/2nd Stage            921,561        1,840          7,200      1,340     501
 17 Canal 201-1                 1,578,382           625         6,800      2,900    2,525
 18 Shewalok                      621,063           500         4,500        250    1,242
 19 Al-Salamyat Canal             944,208        1,810          9,000      2,000     522
Total 19 AF Subprojects        21,621,130       29,902        143,200     40,720     723
Total I&D Rehabilitation
                               37,835,308      119,288        323,538   $193,305     365
for 41 Subprojects




                                               29
Photos taken from the field visits during project implementation




                    The Field Engineering Works




                       The Field Consultation




                                30
The Road Construction




         31
               The Canal Lining




Water Users Groups Established under the Project




                      32
Kani Shereen Canal: Maintained by Water Users Groups




   Women’s Participation in Project Implementation



                         33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Being an emergency operation in post-conflict Iraq, and faced with civil unrest in a precarious
security situation, there was no economic and financial analyses conducted for Iraq Trust Fund
operations at Grant’s appraisal stage, as this was permissible under the OP8.50. The Costs-
benefit analyses were not applied at project completion because there were no baselines to
compare. However, the project investments were deemed viable because unemployment was
adding to strife in post-conflict Iraq, and rehabilitation of critical rural irrigation and drainage
infrastructure was essential to achieve the project objectives and had engaged population into
productive farming activities, and increased agricultural production and the farmer’s income.

The project was highly efficient in delivering outcomes to the targeted beneficiaries. The costs
involved in achieving the project objectives were below original estimates and well within
recognized norms for irrigation rehabilitation projects. The total project cost was estimated at
appraisal as US$46 million (US$20 million for original financing and US$26 million for the
additional financing). At project completion, the actual total cost was US$43.567 million (94.7%
of the appraisal cost). The cost savings of about US$2.2 million from consultant services and
US$1.8 million from project management were all used to implement additional sub-projects,
thus allowing the project to reach 29,555 more beneficiaries, rehabilitate 22,288 additional
hectares and generate close to 23,038 extra employment days. The average actual unit cost per
hectare rehabilitated was US$365 (ranged from average US$213/ha-US$791/ha in original
project and the additional financing respectively. The detailed unit cost for each individual
subproject was presented in Annex 2). The average actual cost is well below the appraisal
estimated range of US$ 500 to 1000/ha. A cost of US$365 per hectare also compares favorably
with other irrigation rehabilitation projects implemented globally.

Although as this was an emergency project, a full economic and financial analysis was not
required at the project completion, the project benefits was roughly estimated based on the
available M&E results on project impacts on incremental agriculture production outputs and
related incremental crop cash value and farmer’s income. Project benefits accrued to a large
number of beneficiaries, and increased employment, agriculture production and income through:
(i) better utilization of existing old irrigation schemes due to improved equity in water
distribution; (ii) decrease in water logged areas due to the reduced water loss by seepage and
increase in irrigation and crop areas; (iii) increased cropping intensity, yield, crop production and
income; and (iv) reduced O&M costs. Based on the improvement of basic irrigation and drainage
infrastructures described above, the agriculture production and output value increased
significantly in project areas by the time of project completion fueled by an expansion of
irrigated crop areas (especially of high value-added cash crop), and a resulting increase in crop
yields.

At project completion, the average cropping intensity significantly improved from the baseline of
80% to 100%, exceeding the original target of 85%. Although the improved crop intensity
varied across subprojects due in particular to different water resources as well as the timing of
subproject completion, in most cases, cropping intensity increased at about 20% to 75%, which
is significant given the short time since completion of many of the subprojects. Many of the
earlier subprojects (e.g., Khabat Canal, Al-Dueheya canal, Sedikan A and B canals, and Kak



                                                 34
Ahmad canals) have already exceeded the revised target and achieved crop intensities at
about130% to 179%. Cropping intensity in many subproject areas (e.g. in Erbil) increased from
below 25% to 100%. This is a remarkable improvement and the subprojects have resulted in a
substantial increase of irrigated agriculture production in the entire project area.

Due to the improvements in irrigation and drainage system, increased irrigation reliability,
improved soil conditions and agricultural practices, the average crop yield of wheat and barley
was increased from 1,131 and 779 kg to 2,830 and 2,100 kg respectively (about 232 percent and
257 percent increase), according to the M&E results collected from the 17 subproject (with the
available data) areas. The target yield of wheat (3 tons/hectare) was achieved or exceeded in
about 40 percent of the subproject areas, although it had not yet been fully achieved in the entire
project area by 2013, as some subprojects were just completed. Once irrigation is secured, the
farming communities make necessary investments in improved technology and inputs and there
usually is thus some time lag in achievement of the full potential of agricultural productivity
increases. The M&E results from the 17 subprojects have shown the actual and potential yield
increases in all subproject areas. The detailed annual average incremental yields for wheat and
barley in each individual subproject area were presented in the Table 1 below.

Based on the M&E results from the 17 subproject areas in 2013, the total annual increased crop
production and output value had been calculated and estimated. The total annual wheat and
barley production had increased from 43,202 ton to 208,573 ton, of which the total wheat
production increased from 25,521 ton to 105,011 ton (by about 411 percent), and barley
production increased from 17,681 ton to 103,562 ton (by about 585.7 percent). The total annual
incremental crop production for wheat and barley reached about 65,388 ton at project completion.
In addition, the total incremental output value had been also estimated, based on a very
conservation local procurement price provided by the project management office. In August
2013, the Iraq Grain Board reported that farmers shipped over 3.5 million ton of wheat and
barley to government silos. The Government procurement prices in May 2013 were IQD 792,000
a ton of wheat compared to IQD 720 000 in 2012. However, a conservative average local
procurement price (the average ID 500,000/ton for wheat and ID 400,000/ton for barley in 2013
suggested by project management office) had been applied to estimate the annual incremental
gross value of wheat and barley production in 17 subproject areas. The total annual incremental
output value for wheat and barley has been reached to ID 29,288.9 million (about US$23.43
million, IQD 1,250/USD) at project completion, which has shown the significant agriculture
benefits achieved from the project. For example, in the Zaab subproject area the additional
annual crop production amounted to 3,557 tons of wheat, 600 tons of barley, and significant
amounts of new cash crops (1,000 tons of potato, 525 tons of broad bean, 1,800 tons of
vegetables, and 7,482 tons of fruits). The total incremental gross value of production achieved
was 1,521.2 million ID annually. The detailed annual incremental crop outputs for wheat and
barley in each individual subproject area were presented in the table 1 below:




                                                35
Table 1: The Incremental Crop Area, Yield and Production of Wheat and Barley in
Subproject areas
Subproject   Before Project                                   After Project                                      Incremental Crop Production
areas        Wheat                   Barley                   wheat                    Barley                    Wheat              Barley                      Total
              ha kg/ha ton            ha kg/ha      ton         ha kg/ha      ton       ha kg/ha      ton          ha kg/ha ton      ha kg/ha        ton          ton
Dawayia 1st
                500   1400    700      287   1000     287        687   3600   2473.2     387   3600   1393.2       187   2200 411.4    100    2600     260         671.4
Stage
18&14 in
                175   1600    280       60   1000     60         325   4000    1300      150   1000     150        150   2400   360     90       0         0        360
Kahreze
AL-Mazzak      4728    800 3782.4        0    400      0        8158    900   7342.2    1580    600     948       3430   100    343 1580       200     316          659
AL-Dueheya     1100   1600   1760      450   1200    540        1250   2000     2500     500   1600     800        150   400     60   50       400      20           80
Khabat-Aski
                125    800    100       87    536 46.632         615   4000    2460      375   2300    862.5       490   3200   1568   288    1764 508.032 2076.032
Kalak
Gofki,
Meslaka,        150   1200    180       87    600    52.2        400   2800    1120      170   1200     204        250   1600   400     83     600    49.8         449.8
Barhole
Canals 516,
                150   1080    162       75   1000      75        635   3000    1905      150   1800     270        485   1920 931.2     75     800         60      991.2
519 in Tooz
Abood AL-
               1250   2400   3000      500   1200     600       3750   3400   12750     1750   2600    4550       2500   1000   2500 1250     1400    1750         4250
Gharbi
Daghara -
              12500    800   10000 12500     1000   12500      32262   2000   64524 35250      2400   84600 19762        1200 23714 22750     1400   31850       55564.4
Huriya
Sedikan
                 12    500      6       13    560    7.28         63   2500    157.5      50   2240     112         51   2000    102    37    1680   62.16        164.16
Canals/Part A
Sedikan
Canals / Part    12    480    5.76      15    528    7.92         38   1440    54.72      50   1760         88      26    960 24.96     35    1232   43.12         68.08
B
Kak-Ahmad        15   1600     24       30   1000     30          85   2000     170       25   1000         25      70   400     28      -5      0         0            28
Canal 521 in
                 50    800     40        0    600         0      250   3100     775       26   1800     46.8       200   2300   460     26    1200    31.2         491.2
Tooz
Zaab Canal     1300   1450   1885     1100    625   687.5        833   3200   2665.6    1500   3600     5400       150   2367 355.1    -475   2100   -997.5      -642.45
Kany Shereen     25   1440     36       43    640   27.52         63   2240   141.12      75   1600      120        38    800 30.4       32    960    30.72        61.12
Al-Rushdeya    1000   1600   1600     1000   1200    1200       1000   2000     2000    1000   1600     1600         0    400     0       0    400        0            0
Al-Salamyat     700   2800   1960      600   2600    1560        862   3100   2672.2     825   2900   2392.5       162    300 48.6      225    300     67.5        116.1
Total
              23792   1397   25521 16847 980.56     17681      51276   2830   105011 43863     2100 103562 27484         1472 31337 27016 1064.8     34051 65388.04
Subproject




The increased crop intensity attributed to the improvement of the cropping pattern in the project
area, facilitated a shift from the traditional low value grain production to more high value cash
crop production, and contributed to the dramatic increases in farm household income. For
example in Zaab subproject area, the total crop area increased from 2,400 to 2,600 hectares, of
which the barley area was reduced by 475 hectares and the vegetable and beans areas increased
by 525 hectares, leading to an increase in cash crop production from 0% to 20% of the total crop
areas and an incremental income by ID 1.148 million per person (at about US$918). In the
Dueaihiya subproject area, the total crop area increased from 5,550 to 6,250 hectares, of which
the vegetable and orchard area increased by 500 hectares, equal to a 71 percent increase in cash
crops, compared to a 29 percent increase in grain crops. This contributed to the substantial
increase in income of ID 141,000/person (about US$112). In the Khabat subproject area, the
total crop area was increased several folds (from 272 to 1,300 hectares), and the orchard
production area was expanded five times compared to the original size, and the per capita income
increased by ID 2.67 million (about US$2,133). The detailed changes in cropping pattern in
each subproject area were presented in Table 2-4 below:




                                                                                       36
Table 2: The Changes in Cropping Pattern in Duwaihiya Subproject Area
             Before Project                       After Project                          Increment                                             Inc. income
Crops        Area Yield Area Total value Area             Yield Area Total value Area Yield Production Total value Per person
               ha       kg     %       000 ID      ha      kg      %          000 ID          ha         kg          ton          000 ID         000 ID
Wheat         1100 1600         20      677600 1250        2000     20         1075000 150               400               740      397400
Barley         450 1200            8    135000      500    1600        8        160000  50               400               260       25000
Vegetable 1150 1600             21      460000 1250        2400     20         1875000 100               800          1160        1415000
Orchards      2850 4800         51      145920 3250        6000     52        20800000 400               1200         5820       20654080
Others                                                                                                                                     0
Total        5550        100 1418520 6250                    100 23910000 700                   7980 22491480                                             141
The incremental Income per person is based on the total incremental output and the number of beneficiaries (160000)
in this subproject area.


Table 3: The Changes in Cropping Pattern in Khabat Subproject Area
             Before Project                       After Project                          Increment production                          Inc. income
Crops        Area Yield Area                      Area Yield Area Tot. value Area Yield Prod.                               Tot. value Per person
              ha        kg     % ID, 000           ha   kg          % ID, 000                 ha   kg  ton                    ID, 000 ID, 000
Wheat         125       800    46 120000           615 4000         47 3000000                490 3200 2360                  2880000
Barley         87       536    32 56280            375 2300         29 1036800                288 3064 816                     980520

Orchards                        22     41760         24
               60       480                310 2480     1114760 250 2000                                             740 1073000
Total         272              100 218040 1300      100 5151560 1028                                                     4933520                  2666.8
The increamental Income per person is based on the total incremental output and the number of beneficiaries (1850) in this
subproject area.


Table 4. The Changes in Cropping Pattern in Zaab Subproject Area
             Before Project             After Project                Increment                   Inc. income
Crops        Area Yield Area Tot. value Area Yield Change Tot. value Area Yield Prod. Tot. value Per person
               ha       kg     %         ID        ha      kg       %            ID                ha         kg     ton         ID, 000       ID, 000
Wheat         1300      833    54.2      176800    1450    3200        55.8      1218000           150        2367    3557         1041200
Barley        1100      1500   45.8       16500     625 3600           24.0       475000           -475 2100           600          310000
Potato           0                                   50 20000           1.9        50000             50 50000         1000           50000
Bean                0                               175    3000         6.7            n.a.    175        3000       525               n.a.
Vegetabl
e                   0                               300    6000        11.5       120000           300        6000    1800          120000
Total         2400              100      193300    2600                100       1863000           200                             1521200               1148.1
The incremental gross income per person is based on the total incremental output and the number of beneficiaries (1325) in this subproject
area. The output value for bean is not available from the M&E report.


The increase in production of various crops has also provided substantial additional crop residues
and forage, which has been used as coarse feed for increased livestock production and for
incorporation into soils to improve their organic content, fertility and water holding capacity. A
proper analysis of farming systems may suggest even more benefits accruing from crop
diversification and adoption of higher value crops, etc. It is thus safe to conclude that the project
was a worthwhile undertaking.




                                                                     37
The implementation results showed that lining coupled with improvements in drainage have
reduced the incidence of water seepage (6-12% of the flow), increased water in drainage,
decreased the acreage affected by water logging and consequently salt accumulation in the crop
root zone. Lining irrigation canals led to: (i) the reduction of water lost by seepage leading to
reduction of water logging; (ii) more equitable water distribution and reduction in transmission
losses of water and time; (iii) the reduction of drainage cost; (iv) the reduction of canal
dimensions; and (v) the limitation of weed growth. Overall, the project improved the water use
efficiency and reduced O&M costs for the irrigation and drainage system.

The fiscal impact of the project, as expected was positive through the created employment and
increased economic activity at local levels. Increased crop production creates opportunities for
non-farm economic activity, and creates more off-farm employment opportunities of a
permanent nature. Construction of bridges and connecting roads improved living conditions and
connectivity, essential to improved agro-production and marketing conditions and markedly
increased farmers’ income. An increase in tax revenue as a result of the increased agricultural
production, employment and the other economic activities is also expected. If these benefits
would have been quantified in the project economic and financial analysis, the total project
benefits would have been much higher than what discussed above.




                                               38
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                              Title              Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Steven P. Maber                 Sr. Environmental Specialist   EASER    TTL
Concepcion Esperanza Del
                                Consultant                     MNSWA    Consultant
Castillo
Ulrich K. H. M. Schmitt         Sr. Natural Resources Economist EASCS   Economist
Colin S. Scott                  Lead Specialist                 OPSOR   Water
Kanthan Shankar                 Country Manager                 EACMM   Water & Sanitation

Supervision/ICR
Abdulhamid Azad                 Sr. Irrigation Engineer         SASDA   TTL
Ahmed Shawky M. Abdel Ghany     Sr. Water Resources Specialist ECSAR    Ex-TTL
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer        Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec.    ECSUW   Ex-TTL
Adel F. Bichara                 Consultant                      MNSWA   EX-TTL
Qun Li                          Sr. Operations Officer          MNSWA   ICR TTL
Malik Khokar                    Consultant                      MNSWA   ICR Author
Nafie Mohammed Mofid            Water Supply Specialist         MNSWA   Water
Victoria Gyllerup               Sr. Operations Officer          MNADE   Operations
Mary Eunice Barroso             Operations Officer              MNCA2   Operations
Nazaneen Ismail Ali             Sr. Procurement Specialist      MNAPC   Procurement
Soran Hama Tahir Ali            Operations Officer              MNSTI   Infrastructure
Hezam H. Alotaibi               Consultant                      MNSWA
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi           Sr. Procurement Specialist      MNAPC   Procurement
Soran Hama Tahir Ali            Operations Officer              MNSTR   Operations
Faisal Abdulrahaem Al-Hothali   Sr. Environment Specialist      MNSEE   Environment
Maya Boulos Boulos              Procurement                             Procurement
Antonio J. Cittati              Consultant                      AFTPW   Consultant
Mona El-Chami                   Sr. Financial Management Spec. MNAFM    Finance
Yogesh Bom Malla                Financial Management Specialist SARFM   Finance
Jad Raji Mazahreh               Sr. Financial Management Spec. MNAFM    Finance
Rory C. O'Sullivan              Consultant                      EACVF   Consultant
Josephine G. Salang             Sr. Program Assistant           MNSSD   Project Support
Magalie Pradel                  Language Program Assistant      MNSSD   Project Support
Zakia Chummun                   Language Program Assistant      MNSSD   Project Support
Hanan Nawar Obaid               Program Assistant                       Project Support




                                             39
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                   45.86                          66.53
  FY05                                   30.67                          82.97
  FY06                                    0.00                           0.00
  FY07                                    0.00                           0.00
 FY08                                    13.45                          82.63
 FY09                                     0.00                           4.16

                          Total:         89.98                         541.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                    0.00                           0.00
  FY05                                    1.60                           9.19
  FY06                                   21.25                         114.78
  FY07                                   24.43                         138.06
  FY08                                   14.18                         109.44
  FY09                                   13.68                          72.08

                          Total:         75.14                         443.56`




                                       40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any) Not applicable.




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any) Not applicable.




                                       41
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Technical Annexes
Working Papers
Project Paper for AF
ITF Grant Agreements
Aide Memoires
ISRs
GHK Independent Review of the Iraq Trust Fund 2011
ECIRP Remote Sensing Final Report and Annexes 1 and 2
Borrower’s ICRs




                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 40718

                                                                                                                               IRAQ
                                       EMERGENCY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                              REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                                            MAIN PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                                            CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                           RAILROADS

                                                                            GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                       GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                            RIVERS

                                            40E                                       42E                                                      To Urmia                                  46E                                      48E
                                                                                                                                          44E
                                       TU R K EY                                                           - -
                                                                                                          Zakhu
                                                                                                                                                               To Urmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0          50           100      150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                              DAHUK
                                                                              -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                             Tig                      - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                   Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                                risR.
                                                                                                                                                                       Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                                                                           Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                 -                                        Mosul               -
                                                                             Sinjar                                                        ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                               Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr                                                            -                                                                                                                                                                          36N
                           ates
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                  N I N AW Á
                                                                                                                                                                                As
                                                                                                                                                                                     - -
                                                                                                                                                                               Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                            Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                       Kirkuk
                                                                                                                                                                              - -
                                                                                                                                                                   AS SULAYMANIYAH                                       REPUBLI C
    S Y RIAN                                                                                                                           KIRKUK                                                                            O F IRAN
                                           To Dayr
     A RAB                                 az Zawr                                                                        -
                                                                                                                      Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                          ba
       RE P.                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                           -       H
                                                                                         -
                                                                                        'Anah
                                                                                                                      - Tikrit
                                                                                                                   SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                  am
                                                              -                                                        -             ri                                                          -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                    DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                            Samarra'    n                                                 To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                  Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                  34N
                                                                                                                                                                                - -
                                                                                                                                    Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                            Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                            Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                                - -                              -
                                                                                                                          Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                              DIYALÁ
                                                                                                                                      Al Fallujah
                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                         Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                          BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                        BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                        Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                              Razzaza                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                        Lake                 -
                                                                                                                                Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                       BABIL                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                      Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                          is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                     -                    Al Hillah
                                                                                                                               KARBALA'                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Dezful
                                                     D        e         s     e         r     t                                                                          - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                               Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                             Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                               -   -                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                           AL QADISIYAH                                           -
                                                                                                                                                          Eu
                                                                                                                                                            phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                  ates
                                                                                                                                                                       R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                               As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Ahvaz
                                                                                             S                                 AN NAJAF                                                          - -
                                                                                                 a                                                                                             DHI QAR
                                                                                                     h                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                         ra
                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                        Al Basrah
                                                                                                                           H
                                                                                                                               ij                                  -
                                                                                                                                                            As Salman
                                                                                                                                    ar                                                                             AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                          ah                                                                                             Umm
                                                                                                                                                        AL MUTHANNÁ                                               BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                          Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KUWA IT
                                                                                            S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                 GSDPM
                                                                                                 Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                 42E                                                     44E                                                  46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FEBRUARY 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 40719

                                                                                                                              IRAQ
                                       EMERGENCY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                              REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING PROJECT LOCATIONS                                                                MAIN ROADS

                                                                CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                      RAILROADS

                                                                GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                                  GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                RIVERS

                                            40E                                      42E                                                      To Urmia                                  46E                                      48E
                                                                                                                                         44E
                                       TU R K EY                                                          - -
                                                                                                         Zakhu
                                                                                                                                                              To Urmia
                                                                                                                                                                                                0          50           100      150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                             DAHUK
                                                                             -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                            Tig                      - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                  Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                               risR.
                                                                                                                                                                      Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                           - -
                                                                                                                                                          Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                -                                        Mosul               -
                                                                            Sinjar                                                        ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                              Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr                                                           -                                                                                                                                                                          36N
                           ates
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                 N I N AW Á
                                                                                                                                                                               As
                                                                                                                                                                                    - -
                                                                                                                                                                              Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                           Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                      Kirkuk
                                                                                                                                                                             - -
                                                                                                                                                                  AS SULAYMANIYAH                                       REPUBLI C
    S Y RIAN                                                                                                                          KIRKUK                                                                            O F IRAN
                                           To Dayr
     A RAB                                 az Zawr                                                                       -
                                                                                                                     Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                         ba
       RE P.                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                          -       H
                                                                                        -
                                                                                       'Anah
                                                                                                                     - Tikrit
                                                                                                                  SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                 am
                                                              -                                                       -             ri                                                          -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                   DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                           Samarra'    n                                                 To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                 Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                  34N
                                                                                                                                                                               - -
                                                                                                                                   Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                           Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                           Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                               - -                              -
                                                                                                                         Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             DIYALÁ
                                                                                                                                     Al Fallujah
                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                        Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                         BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                       BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                       Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                             Razzaza                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                               WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                       Lake                 -
                                                                                                                               Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                      BABIL                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                     Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                         is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                    -                    Al Hillah
                                                                                                                              KARBALA'                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To Dezful
                                                     D        e         s    e         r     t                                                                          - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                              Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                            Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                              -   -                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                          AL QADISIYAH                                           -
                                                                                                                                                         Eu
                                                                                                                                                           phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                 ates
                                                                                                                                                                      R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                              As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Ahvaz
                                                                                            S                                 AN NAJAF                                                          - -
                                                                                                a                                                                                             DHI QAR
                                                                                                    h                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                    An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                        Al Basrah
                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                              ij                                  -
                                                                                                                                                           As Salman
                                                                                                                                   ar                                                                             AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                         ah                                                                                             Umm
                                                                                                                                                       AL MUTHANNÁ                                               BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                         Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KUWA IT
                                                                                           S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                GSDPM
                                                                                                Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                42E                                                     44E                                                  46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEBRUARY 2014
