 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14651

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: Iraq
             Project ID: P087881                                                      Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Iraq Emergency                 Project Costs (US$M):                       20.0                  43.57
                         Community
                         Infrastructure
                         Rehabilitation Project
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                       20.0                   46.0
      Sector Board:      Social Development             Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               12/10/2004
                                                               Closing Date:             06/30/2007         06/30/2013
          Sector(s):        Irrigation and drainage (75%); Water supply (25%)
          Theme(s):         Other social development (67% - P); Rural services and infrastructure (33% - S)


Prepared by:                Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Maha J. Armaly              Midori Makino           Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  Project development objective is “to address current emergency needs in Iraq for infrastructure rehabilitation at the
community level and generate employment.” (Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement p.10, and Technical Annex P.6). This
overarching objective is followed by the following statement. “This will cover the restoration of rural infrastructure
using labor-intensive, small-scale civil works programs for water supply, sanitation, irrigation and drainage
infrastructure subprojects.”

According to the amended Iraq Trust Fund Grant Agreement, prepared at restructuring in March FY08, the revised
objective is “to generate near-term employment while addressing urgent rural irrigation, drainage and water
infrastructure rehabilitation needs.” This would be achieved through a flexible program of labor-intensive civil works to
restore and improve rural water supply and irrigation infrastructure.

The revised wording clarifies that the project’s focus is on rural irrigation, drainage and water infrastructure
rehabilitation (and not broader infrastructure rehabilitation). This was the intent of the project design as outlined in the
statement that follows the original Project Development Objective.

This review considers the objectives as similar in pre- and post-restructuring as follows: (a) to generate near term
employment; and (b) to address urgent rural irrigation, drainage and water infrastructure rehabilitation needs.
Because there are no material differences between the original and revised objectives, no weighting of outcome
ratings is undertaken.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 03/27/2008
c. Components:
The project had four parts:

Part A: Subprojects for rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, water supply and sanitation facilities in Municipalities of Al
Muthanna, Al Amara, Nassariyah, and Sulaymaniyah. (appraisal cost estimate US$2.5 million, revised cost estimate
US$26.75 million, actual cost US$26.20 million). Four subprojects in these regions had been identified including the
small-scale irrigation and drainage rehabilitation schemes and the rehabilitation of 20 multipurpose wells.

Part B: Subprojects for rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, water supply and sanitation facilities to be identified in
other priority areas (appraisal cost estimate US$10.5 million, revised cost estimate US$10.5 million, actual cost
US$16.04 million). Twelve subprojects distributed across Iraq had been identified by MOWR at the feasibility level and
were processed.

Part C: Preparation of feasibility studies (appraisal cost estimate US$3.0 million, revised cost estimate US$3.0 million,
actual cost estimate US$0.08 million). The preparation of feasibility and design studies for (i) priority small-scale work
to be implemented under the project; and (ii) large-scale projects which could be implemented subsequent to the
project under other sources of financing.

Part D: Project management and capacity building. (appraisal cost estimate US$ 2.0 million, revised cost estimate
US$ 3.1 million, actual cost US$1.26 million). Support to the management of the project including: (i) the
establishment of a Project Management Team (PMT) in the MOWR; (ii) the provision of technical assistance and
training in project management, procurement and financial management; (iii) capacity building to ensure the
appropriate transfer of skills to the staff of the grant recipient; and (iv) the employment of experts to assist with project
management and capacity building activities; and (v) the provision of equipment for the PMT.

US$ 2.0 million was unallocated in the original cost estimates.

Revised Project Components : The World Bank approved an Additional Financing in the amount of US$26 million
(Project P109296; TF 091663; GA dated March 27, 2008), with a further addition of US$1 million (September 21,
2009) to enable scaling up of activities and replicating the impact of a well performing project. (ICR p. 4)

The Components under Additional Financing were:

Part A: Implementation of selected subprojects aimed at rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation, drainage, and
rural water supply facilities in the north, middle and south of Iraq, including provision of the required equipment
(additional financing estimate US$24.25 million, actual cost US$23.77 million).

Subcomponent 1: Rehabilitation and modernization of small irrigation, drainage and rural water supply infrastructure.
This subcomponent covered thirteen governorates including the Kurdistan Region, Al Muthana, Baghdad, Thi-Qar,
Sulaymaniyah, Wasset, Najaf, Diyala, Karbala, Irbil, Salahuddin, Babel, Dahook and El-Qadisah with 13 subprojects.

Subcomponent 2: Provision of equipment and goods

Part B: Provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the recipient’s capacity in water resources and
irrigation management, participatory irrigation management, information
technology and construction supervision (additional financing estimate US$0.37 million, actual cost US$0.36 million).

Part C: Strengthening the recipient’s capacity for project management, monitoring and evaluation, including financing
of operating costs (additional financing estimate US$0.73 million, actual cost US$0.41 million).

In this review, Parts B & C of the additional financing are compared with Part D in the original grant, because they are
similar in content.

US$ 0.65 million was unallocated in the cost estimates for revised financing.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost. The original project cost was US$ 20 million, Restructuring in March 2008 provided additional
financing of US$26 million. The ICR, p. 4, indicates that in September 2009, another additional financing of US$ 1
million was also provided by the Bank, but the ICR does not account for this amount. The final project cost was
US$43.57 million or 94.7% of original costs.
Financing. The grant financed 100% of total project costs. There were no other financiers.

Borrower contribution . No borrower contribution was planned in the Technical Annex. The ICR indicates that staff for
the Project Management Team and the preparation of the feasibility and design studies were financed from
government resources.

Dates. The project was approved in September 2004. The original closing date was June 30, 2007 (TFGA, p.3), and
was subsequently extended to December 31, 2008, due to the additional financing. Following the approval of the
Additional Financing, the Bank accepted to further extend the closing date of the project three times: (i) from June 30,
2010 to December 31, 2011; (ii) from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012; and (iii) December 31, 2012 to June
30, 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of objectives is substantial. The objectives are consistent with the respective strategies of the Government
and the Bank. The Iraq National Development Plan (NDP) 2010-2014 has nine main goals. The project addresses the
NDP goal to reduce poverty by focusing on comprehensive rural development, job creation, and provision of basic
services.

The overarching objective of the World Bank Group engagement as outlined in the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for Iraq (FY 13-16) is to support the country’s efforts to build stronger government institutions and a more
diversified and regionally integrated economy that can deliver services and create jobs. The objective is supported by
three pillars: (1) improve governance; (2) support economic diversification for broadly-shared prosperity; and (3)
improve social inclusion and reducing poverty (CPS para 62). The project addresses pillars 2 and 3.

Although a potential source of employment in rural areas, the agricultural sector suffers from low investment, poor
productivity, and policy distortions. Years of insufficient maintenance and funding have degraded agricultural services
and physical infrastructure, particularly water resources and irrigation infrastructure (CPS para 35). The project
addresses the employment and degraded infrastructure that remain relevant in the Bank’s strategy.

While the objective aiming at infrastructure rehabilitation was output oriented, that was relevant in the conflict affected
country context.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The design of the project is substantially relevant to the objectives. The project components that included sub-projects
in irrigation, drainage, and water infrastructure were directly linked to addressing urgent rural infrastructure
rehabilitation needs in the target geographical areas. As for the objective related to employment generation, there was
a clear causal linkage between the project design which used labor-intensive civil works and a community
participatory approach to selecting the sub-projects and interventions and the intended outcomes. In addition, the
increased water productivity in agriculture production was expected to create opportunities for further generation of
employment activities.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Objective 1: Generate near term employment : Substantial.

Outputs: All target values were exceeded (refer to additional outputs described under objective 2).
  119,288 hectares (Ha) provided with improved irrigation and drainage, compared to the original target of 70,000
    Ha and revised target of 97,000 Ha.
  4,330 days of internal and external training provided, compared to the original target of 1,260 days, and revised
    target of 3,460 days.

Outcome: Exceeded the targets.
  323,538 employment days generated compared to the original target of 176,000, and the revised target of
    305,500.

Objective 2: Address urgent rural irrigation , drainage and water infrastructure rehabilitation needs : Substantial

Outputs: All target values were met or exceeded.
  119,288 hectares (Ha) provided with improved irrigation and drainage, compared to the original target of 70,000
    Ha and revised target of 97,000 Ha.
    41 sub-projects implemented compared to 29 planned.
    166.6 Km of canal lining completed compared to 130.4 Km planned.
    721.8 Km of drainage canals were cleared compared to 268.8 planned.
    172 Km of canals rehabilitated as planned.
    72 bridges for cars were completed compared to 63 bridges planned.
    68 foot bridges completed compared to 57 foot bridges planned.
    126 hydraulic regulating structures rehabilitated compared to 104 planned.

Outcomes: Almost all target are achieved, exceeded, or likely to be met.
  193,305 water users end beneficiaries were reached compared to the original target of 121,000 and revised
    target of 163,750.
  77,302 female water users provided with new/improved irrigation and drainage services compared to the original
    target of 18,150 and the revised target of 24,562.
  9,300 domestic water users provided with access to improved water sources, compared to the original target of
    3,993 and revised target of 5,400.
  cropping intensity reached 100% at the end of the project compared to 85% originally planned and 120% revised.
    The ICR explains that this target is likely to be met as there is a time lag between the investments and
    materialization of cropping intensity.
  Crop yield increased from 1.25 tons/Ha in 2004 to 2.83 (wheat) and 2.6 (barley) tons/Ha vs. original target of 2.0
    (wheat) and 3.0 (barley) tons/Ha, and 3.0 tons (wheat and barley) /Ha revised target. The ICR explains that this
    target is likely to be met as the farmers are shifting to high input production systems with insured water supply.
  Soil salinity dropped from 3.4 particles per million (ppm) in 2004 to 2.9 ppm compared to the original and revised
    target of 2.8 ppm.

 5. Efficiency:
  The Project was prepared under Emergency Recovery Assistance Procedures (OP 8.50), and accordingly, no
economic analysis was undertaken at appraisal. Economic rate of return was not calculated at project completion.

The ICR undertakes a qualitative economic analysis. It compares unit costs of the Project to appraisal estimates and
other international experiences. The ICR indicates that costs are below original estimates and within recognized
norms for irrigation rehabilitation projects. The average actual unit cost per hectare rehabilitated is US$365 (ranged
from the average US$181/ha-US$723/ha) and is well below the appraisal estimated of US$ 500 to 1000/ha. The
average cost compares favorably with other irrigation rehabilitation projects implemented globally. Costs were kept
low by using small domestic contractors and labor. Other savings were achieved by using ministry staff for preparing
feasibility studies and using the grant funds for capital investments, which allowed for 41 sub-projects vs. 29 planned.

The ICR states that agricultural production and output value increased significantly in project areas fueled by an
expansion of irrigated high value crop areas, and an increase in crop yields. Overall, the project improved the water
use efficiency and reduced O&M costs for the irrigation and drainage system. The ICR states that on and off farm
employment increased as did tax revenues.

The project was extended by 6 years. The task team explained that the initial short implementation period of 2.5 years
was the requirement of the donors to the Trust Fund for Iraq.

Although the actual economic benefits were not calculated at project completion, compared to the costs associated to
the project and the extension of the closing date, the qualitative analysis indicates that the Project is likely to have
contributed substantially to the increased outputs, production, and income as evidenced in the achievement of almost
all revised output and outcome targets. Based on the above, the efficiency of the Project is rated as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No
     ICR estimate                    No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Because there are no material differences between the original and revised objectives, a split rating has not been
carried out for this assessment.
Relevance of objectives and that of design are both rated substantial. The efficacy of both first and second objectives
are rated substantial. Efficiency is rated substantial. Overall outcome is rated Satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There is high commitment to the Project by the Government (MOWR). The MOWR is responsible for the operations
and maintenance of the infrastructure created by the Project. Maintenance equipment is included in the Project, and
according to the task team the Ministry is well funded and staffed with qualified personnel. There is also high
commitment from the beneficiary communities who are reaping the benefits of the Project and due to their
involvement in the implementation have a vested interest in its sustainability.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank responded to the agreement reached at the international donors’ conferences in 2003 in addressing
the short-term need for Iraq. Although it was prepared following the Emergency Recovery Assistance procedures,
and only four feasible sub-projects identified by the government at the time of appraisal, the Bank ensured project
readiness through putting in place proper implementation arrangements. Fiduciary and safeguard issues and
risks were identified and arrangements in place to mitigate them through the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent and the
Environmental and Social Safeguard Assessment Framework agreed for projects financed by the Trust Fund for
Iraq. A framework for selecting future sub-projects was in place. The project employed a flexible, programmatic
approach that allowed interventions to adapt to the changing realities on the ground and to the interventions of
other donors. A community driven development approach was rejected in favor of using the current government
structure – at the same time involving the community and providing the necessary capacity building. While the
very short implementation period of only two years appears to be a shortcoming, it was a requirement of the Trust
Fund for Iraq.

There was no quality at entry assessment by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG)

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Due to the security situation, on the ground supervision was undertaken by the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent on
behalf of the Bank on a routine basis. Implementation support missions by the Bank were held with the
Government and Fiduciary Monitoring Agent in neighboring countries. Fiduciary Monitoring Agent monitored
procurement and financial management. The Bank responded to the Government’s requests for reallocations and
extensions to improve and ensure proper implementation. In order to resolve delayed payments, the Bank agreed
to increase disbursement thresholds and pay local contractors in foreign currency. No major problems are
reported during the implementation of the project. The team was proactive in restructuring the project when
necessary; however changes and extensions of closing dates were too many leading to unnecessary
administrative burden on both sides.

There was no quality of supervision by QAG.




   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government as represented by the Ministry of Water Resources was strongly committed to the project and
its objectives from preparation through completion. The Government staffed the Project Management Team with
skilled personnel and retained them to ensure continuity; (b) provided the necessary resources to the Project
Management Team to undertake implementation; (c) coordinated with the several governorates participating with
the projects; and (d) and communicated with the Bank to suggest and resolved issues such as preparation of the
feasibility studies to allocate more funds for capital investments.

   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project Management Team, as part of the Ministry of Water Resources was highly committed to the
project throughout implementation and during periods of unrest. Staff was motivated, highly skilled and
knowledgeable of the sector. Staff was capable of preparing feasibility studies that proved of value to the Project.
The Project Management Team learned the Bank’s procurement and Financial Management procedures and
implemented them. Issues were communicated to the Bank and resolved in a timely manner. The Project
Management Team was effective in organizing stakeholder meetings for selection of subprojects in a participatory
manner.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   According to the ICR (p. 8,9) the project had 14 original indicators that were routinely used in non-emergency
operations. These were later changed to fit the Iraqi situation. The Technical Annex includes few information on the
design and requirements for M&E. The M&E framework was revised during discussions of the additional financing.
The revised framework is simple, concise and therefore appropriate for the project and the circumstances. It does not
burden the implementing agencies with excessive data collection efforts. The indicators directly measure the
intended outcomes of the project as they relate to employment generation and impact on irrigation improvement and
benefits to users.

According to the ICR, the project monitoring and evaluation system was designed with consultant support and was
based on both project administrative data and data collected independently by the consultants. The key project inputs,
outputs and outcome indicators were monitored through a Management Information System that measured project
progress, procurement actions and financial management. Through the Management Information System, M&E
functions were performed by the Project Management Team and its hired consultants, and provided the inputs needed
for project management and Bank supervision.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Data was collected by independent consultants, and key inputs and outputs were monitored through the
Management Information System. M&E reports were provided to the Bank as input for supervision missions. The
team noted that dated and explanatory photos were initially an essential part of the reports in the early stages of
implementation. Later, satellite imagery was used for monitoring followed by site visits and ground truthing by
consultants. The original project had started without baseline data because of the special post-conflict circumstances
in Iraq warranted an emergency response. Consultants assisting the Project Management Team undertook field
surveys and established the pre-subproject baselines of various agricultural and other outcomes (crop intensity,
yields, employment etc.) against which progress was assessed.

c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E framework and indicators were used in supervision missions to discuss and monitor progress.
Arrangements for continuing monitoring are in place and expected to be used by the Project Management Team and
Ministry of Water Resources for scaling up the project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues
 a. Safeguards:
The Project was assessed as category "B" project. According to the ICR (p. 10), impacts would be those associated
mainly with: (i) construction works (e.g. safety, dust, noise, pesticides, waste material, traffic); (ii) provision of sanitary
services, water supply and waste management; and (iii) maintenance of facilities.

The Project was subject to the Environmental and Safeguard Screening Assessment Framework agreed for the
implementation of Projects financed by the trust fund for Iraq.

According to the ICR, p. 11, there was no land acquisition, resettlement or cultural heritage issues because all
subprojects consisted of rehabilitating and/or improving existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure. This did not
expose cultural/historical sites to potential damage.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management : According to the ICR (p. 11, 12), financial management was of good quality. Capacity was
built through intensive training. Rating of the financial management of the Project was upgraded from "moderately
satisfactory" to "satisfactory given (a) competency of the staff of the Project Management Team and the commitment
of the Ministry of Water Resources; (b) availability of funds to finance operating expenses; (c) accurate and timely
reporting; (d) positive reviews by the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent; and (e) timely and clean opinion of external auditors.

The Interim Un-audited Financial Reports were prepared in accordance with International Public Sector Accounting
Standards and submitted in a timely manner. The Project’s accounts were subject to annual audits performed by an
international audit firm acceptable to the Bank. All audit reports were submitted to the Bank without delays. The
auditor issued unqualified “clean” opinions on all issued audited financial statements.

The Fiduciary Monitoring Agent that was hired by the Bank to supervise fiduciary compliance was effective; its staff
visited the Project Management Team two to three times per month to: (i) review the interim financial report and
reconcile the Project's records with the Bank records; (ii) monitor unclaimed expenditures; (iii) verify disbursement
plan updates; and (iv) provide on-the-job training in financial management matters. The Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
conducted, on a sample basis, pre-screening and post- review of withdrawal applications for direct payments and
reimbursements. The Project Management Team maintained a fixed asset register of the goods purchased with the
grant funding and performed annual stock-taking.

Procurement: Procurement was carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurements under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004; and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreements. Procurement plans were
revised and updated as the project progressed. Procurement of works was done using a National Standard Bidding
Document. Smaller works were procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded to the lowest bidder with
requisite experience and resources to complete the contract successfully on the basis of quotations obtained from
these qualified domestic contractors in response to written invitation.

The project supported the training of the procurement staff at the Ministry of Water Resources and in the Project
Management Team. Procurement activities were carried out by a Procurement Officer within the the Project
Management Team who was guided by a procurement management consultant throughout project implementation. A
Bank ex-post procurement review found the procurement process satisfactory.

There was one case of mis-procurement and the World Bank cancelled US$1.5 million for one package because the
members of the Bid Evaluation Committee visited the factories of the two lowest bidders. (ICR p. 12, 13)

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Gender: The ICR acknowledges the increase in women headed households in Iraq due to the conflict. In female
headed households, women may contribute up to 80% of farm labor, with heavy tillage outsourced to hired males.
According to the project M&E results, about 77,301 women beneficiaries (314 percent of the expected target) had
access to the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage services.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                          Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following key lessons are selected from the ICR section on lessons learned:

    Despite an adverse operating environment, infrastructure rehabilitation activities can be implemented cost
     effectively. This can be done through use of small local contractors who can deliver in a short time with the
     involvement of the local community.
    Early beneficiary participation in water management issues allows faster implementation of the irrigation works
     especially those related to the main canals. Direct involvement of the beneficiaries in planning and
     implementation of O&M systems creates a sense of ownership among farmers, which contributes to achieving
     sustainable water management.
    Development progress in post conflict environments is rarely predictable or linear and cannot be fully mitigated
     through design. Risks must be monitored continuously for course correction.
    Variations in the operating context and in levels of institutional capacity reduce opportunity to adopt standard
     approaches nationally, but can encourage effective and creative solutions well-calibrated to the local
     conditions.

IEG draws the following additional lessons.

    Simplified and concise indicators that directly address the specific objective and outputs ensure better
     implementation of project monitoring, especially in post conflict situations when obtaining data is difficult.
    In projects with substantial community participation, final surveys help to substantiate and attribute benefits
     directly to the intervention.
    Outsourcing Bank fiduciary and safeguard responsibilities to local independent firms can be an option which
     was found to be effective in the context of Iraq.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well documented, is results-oriented, and provides good evidence especially on outputs and outcomes.
However, is has minor shortcomings:
  The ICR is lengthy (24 pages excluding annexes), and at times repetitious across and within sections, particularly
    the efficiency and achievement of PDO sections.
  (b) Quantitative economic analysis was not carried out and the qualitative economic analysis focuses heavily on
    the benefits side, and much less on the costs side.
  (c) Some sections are statements without the appropriate references. An example is the relevance section which
    simply states that the project objectives and design are relevant without including the necessary references from
    the CSP.
  (d) Original closing date is reported differently in the text (p. 5), in the data sheet, and in the grant agreement.
    There is no clarification of an additional $1 million in financing (ICR p.4) which was later explained by the team to
   be an error.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
