Doc_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USI4 ONLY
Report No. 6220-To
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 11, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thei, official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit              CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                       CFAF 350
CFAF 1                     US$0.0028
CFAF 1,000,000     -       US$2857
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNCA      -    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Togo
National Agricultural Credit Agency
DAF       -    Direction Administrative et Financiare
Administration and Finance Department
DOA       -    Direction des Operations Agricoles
Agricultural Operations Department
DRA       -    Direction de la Recherche Agronomique
Directorate of Agricultural Research
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
French Development Aid Agency
ICO       -    International Coffee Organization
IRAT      -    Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
Research Institute for Tropical Agronomy
IRCC      -    Institut de Recherche du Cafe et du Cacao
Research Institute for Coffee and Cocoa
MBR       -    Direction Matgriel, Batiment et Routes
Civil Works Department
OPAT      -    Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
Agricultural Commodities Marketing Agency
SRCC      -    Socifte Nationale pour la Renovation et le Developpement
de la Cacaoyare et de la Caffitre Togolaises
National Cocoa and Coffee Development Company
STCP      -    Socifte Togolaise de Commerce des Produits
National Marketing Agency
UCP       -    Unite de Credit du Projet
Project Credit Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government     January 1 to December 31
SRCC           January 1 to December 31
UCP         : October 1 to September 30



FOR omCAL us: ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
age
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE ......................                v
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................          vii
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR    ................. .          xi
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................................1..... 
II.  ECONOMIC PROSPECTS . .................................               1
III. THE RURAL SECTOR  ...................        . .                    2
A.   The Agricultural Sector         ........................       2
B.   The Institutional Framework .        ................          2
C.   The Cocoa and Coffee Subsector ...............      ..         3
D.   Experience in Past Lending .....................               4
E.   Project Formulation and Rationale
for IDA Involvtnent .......      . . . ...... ............    6
F.   The Project Area  ........       .......................       7
IV.  THE PROJECT ..............                                          9
A.   Project Objectives and Description ............      .         9
B.   Detailed Features ..        ........................... .     10
1.  Coffee and Cocoa Plantings ................     .        10
2.  Coffee Maintenan ee Program        .    ............     11
3.  Plant Protection Program                ..........       11
4.  Fooderop Development            ................         12
5.  Applied Research ....... ....................            12
6.  Feeder Roads  ................ ... ................      13
7.  Farmers' Associations ...................      #--       13
8.  Institutional Support ... ...................            14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Togo in February 1986, comprising Ms. Nguyen (Mission Leader), Messrs.
Fayd'herbe, Gray, Bah, Levy, (IDA), Caumel (Consultant), Borderon (CCCE)
and Felix (FAC). Ms. Gabre Maskal was responsible for the typing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
C.   Organization and Management .........................     14
1.  Organizational Structure of SRCC    ................    14
2. Technical Assistance         ................  .....   15
3.  Criteria for Selecting Farmers ...................    16
4.  Credit .......*..................................   16
5.  Strengthening of Extension Services .............  17
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation       .......................   18
7.  Present Status of the Project ...................   18
D.   Project Costs and Financing ...       ......................   18
1.  Cost Estimates .. ****.... . . ... ....... .. ..... .....   18
2.  Financing Plan ........ .....  ..........   19
3.  Recurrent Cost and Government Financlng.........   20
4.  Project Preparation Facility .....................    20
5.  Procurement and Disbursement .....................    21
6.  Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements ......  23
E.   Production, Marketing and Pricing ..................   24
F.   Benefits and Risks .....                                  26
1.  Project Benefits  ... ***.. *...    .................   26
2.  Financial Impact on Government's Revenues   .......  26
3.  Environmental Impact .......  ....................   21
3.  2conomic Rate of Return   .........................   27
4.  Project Risks ..................................     27
V.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......... . .... .  .................   27
ANNEXES
3     Historical Production and Prices of Coffee and Cocoa
4-1   Implementation Schedule
4-2   Applied Research
4-3   Feeder Roads
4-4   Vehicles and Equipment
4-5   Training Plan
4-6   SRCC: Organization Chart
4-7   Credit Programs for Coffee/Cocoa and UCP Cashflow
4-8   Summary of Cost Estimates
4-9   Disbursement Schedule
4-10  Coffee and Cocoa Production Estimates
4-11  Producers' Incentives Analysis
4-12  Summary of Farm Budgets



- iii -
4-13 Governusut Revenues and Cash Flow
4-14 Economic Analysis
MAPS
IBRD No.19606 Project Area
IBRD No.19605 SRCC Extension Sectors



14oo ` - r ow,P 0(-Z  $4,* AoT 



- v 
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   REPORTS                                                 Code No.
1.  Rapport Interimaire de Preparation (FAO/CP         226.365
August 1985)
2.   Supplementary Volume (FAO/CP)                      320.284
3.   Rapport Annuel SRCC 1984, 1985, 1986               SRCC-YBR 84/85,
86 YFR 84
4.   Rapports d'Audit (SRCC, UCP)                       SRCC-YAR-84
CR 945 YAR 84
YBR 85/86
B.   WORKING PAPERS
1.   Technical Papers
1.1 Propositions pour une Amelioration des        320.285
Composantes Vulgarisation et Formation
du Projet - M. Levy
1.2  SRCC Road Program - A. Bah                   320.286
1.3  Research Programs for Cocoa/Coffee           320.287
and Foodcrops - B.Gray.
1.4  Promotion des Groupements Villageois         320.288
A. Felix
1.5  Composante Vivri6re - Volet Semencier        320.289
A. Borderon
1.6  Credit Administration - J.C. Fayd'herbe      320.290
1.7  Composantes Cacaoyare et                     320.295
Cafeiere - G. Caumel
2.   Detailed Project Cost Tables
2.1  SRCC                                         320.291
2.2  Project Administration
2.3  Rural Tracks                                    i
2.4  IRCC                                            "
2.5  IRAT                                            "
2.6  Planting Material and Mirid and
Blackpod Control
2.7  Project Credit Unit                             "
2.8 Summary Project Cost Table                       i
3.   Crop and Farm Budgets                             320.292
4.   Economic Analysis                                 320.293



No
>          ,i
i
I
.*



- vii -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:         Societe Nationale pour la R&novation et le
Developpement de la Cacaoyare et de la Caf6i4re
Togolaises (SRCC)
Amount:              SDR 14.9 million (US$17.9 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Flow of Credit
Proceeds:            Borrower to SRCC (US$17.9 million); Grant
Project
Description:         The project would aim to increase coffee and cocoa
production through both improving the productivity of
investments under the first and second cocoa-coffee
development projects and by plantings in new areas. It
would be implemented over five years and would include:
(a) provision of inputs and technical advice to farmers
for the planting of 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha of
cocoa, maintenance of existing 16,600 ha of coffee
planted under the first two projects, and development
of some 22,000 ha of foodcrops; (b) implementation of
annual plant protection programs against pest attacks
on existing cocoa trees (mirid and blackpod); (c)
applied research in coffee, cocoa and fooderops; (d)
construction (250 km) and maintenance of feeder roads;
(e) establishment of about 250 farmers' groups for
marketing, input distribution and saving purposes; (f)
support to SRCC, including 14 man-years of technical
assistance and 12 man-months of short-term consultants'
services; and (g) studies of land tenure problems in
the project area and a future strategy for cocoa-coffee
development ill Togo.



- viii -
Estimated Project Costs a/
Local         Foreign      Total
-------  US$ million  ----------
Agricultural Development              1.5           5.1           6.6
Applied Research                      2.2           1.7           3.9
Feeder Roads                          1.4           4.4           5.8
Institutional Development             5.2           4.2           9.4
Total Base Cost                      10.3          15.4          25.7
Physical Contingencies                0.3           0.8           1.1
Price Contingencies                   2.7           3.7           6.4
Total Project Cost                   13=3          19.9          33.2
a! including US$1.1 million for taxes and duties and
US$1.5 million for activity financed under the Project
Preparation Facility.
Financing Plan                       Local          Foreign    Total
… _______- …US$ million -----------
IDA                                   6.6          11.3          17.9
CCCE                                  2.1           3.6           5.7
FAC                                   1.1           1.8           2.9
Government                            2.2           0.4           2.6
UCP                                   1.3           2.8           4.1
=3=3          19.9         33=2
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit:
FY88  FY89  FY90   PY91  FY92   FY93
Amual                         3.76   3.58   3.58   3.22   2.33   1.43
Cmulative                    3.76   7.34  10.92   14.14   16.47  17.90
Economic Rate of Return: 32%



- ix -
Benefits and Risks
Project benefits would accrue to the Government through increased
foreign exchange earnings (US$20 million annually at full development) and
to farm families through increased incomes. Farmers' per capita income
would more than eouble and would increase to US$170, about 60% of the
national average. The main project risk would be the cocoa replanting
program component (accounting for 2% of the estimated project costs) which
was beset with technical and financial difficulties under the first two
projects. To limit the risk, an initial planting program (about 450 ha)
would be implemented over two years taking into account tte lessons from
the earlier two projects and successful trials of new techniques elsewhere
in West Africa. A joint Government/IDA review of technical progress and
farmers' acceptance of the cocoa program would take place during the third
year of the project to determine whether it should continue and on what
scale. Another risk is the viability of the credit unit (UCP), given the
poor recovery performance under the first two projects. Specific project
features, including better selection of farmers, and an increased role of
coffee and cocoa marketing agents and farmers' associations in credit
recovery would improve the recovery performance and therefore maintain
credit availability to farmers.
Maps: IBRD 19606
IBRD 19605
WAPAA
October 1986



.- lX -
>14-ts mpo rse  /441Po /
-N----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- xi -
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY FEATURES OF THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
1.   Population                            Unit                    Size
(1982 unless noted)
Total                               (million)                 2.82
Rural as X of Total                       2                  77
Density (average and variation)   Pop/km  (range)            48  (20-100)
2.   Economic Overview
GNP/Capita                            $ (1983)              264
Rural Income/capita                   $ (1983)               96
GNP                                 Value, CFAP, m.         303
Agriculture share of GNP           Value, CPAP, u. (S)       93  (73)
Of which - Export crops                  "                   8
- Domestically
used crops                   "                  69
- Non crop                                        16
3.   Land Use
Total area                              000 km2                56.6
Forests (more than 50% covered)         000 km2                 5.5
Perennial Crops                         000 km2                 1.1
Annual crops (cultivated)               000 km2                 4.8
of which cotton                                               0.3
4.   Output                                                (1983/84)
Cereals              000 t (index 72/73 - 100)              307.4 (132)
Root crops            "                                     801.1 (104)
Cotton (seed)                                                30   (517)
Cocoa                                                        14    (75)
Coffee                                                        8   (118)
Cereals per capita                 (kg)                     109
5.   Inputs
Fertilizer                         (000 t)                   18
Chemicals                          (000 t)                  675
Improved seed                       t                     1,080



- xii -
6.   Trade
Total Exports                   billion  CFAF               62.6 (%)
Of which agriculture               of                     17.8 (28)
products                                                  17 .8 (28)
- cocoa                            4t .9 (80)
-coffee                          of6.3 (10)
- cotton                                                   6.6 (11)
Total Imports                                              128.3
Of which food and beverage                                 34.9 (27)
- cereals/flour                    "                       5.7 (4)
- seat/fish                        ofu4.4 (3)
Of which agricultural33  3
inputs3.()



REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Togo has requested IDA's assistance in financing
the fourth phase of its coffee and cocoa development program. The project
would help finance replanting and maintenance programs for coffee and cocoa
based on lessons learnt from the First Cocoa-Coffee Development Project
(Credit 503-TO, US$6 million of August 1974), and the Second Cocoa-Coffee
Development Project (Credit 945-TO, US$14 million of July 1979). It would
be implemented over a five-year period at an estimated cost of US$33.2
riillion. The project would be cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the Fonds d'Aide de Cooperation (FAC) of
France.
II. ECONOMIC PROSPECTS
2.01      Togo is located on the Gulf of Guinea and bounded by Ghana, Benin,
and Upper Volta. It covers 56,000 km2 with a population of about 2.9
million, growing at 2.7% per year. Per capita income was estimated at
US$250 in 1984, although rural incomes are only about one-third of this
level. In the 1960a, the average growth rate of GDP was about 7% per annum
(p.a.) in real terms, among the highest in Africa. Led by exports of
phosphate rock, growth during the 1970s was about 5% p.a. Sharp increases
in public investment and current expenditure during the later part of the
1970s led to public finance problems. By 1979, the overall fiscal deficit
had reached 14.3% of GDP and the balance of payments' current account
deficit 23.1% of GDP. These problems have been addresed by a policy of
fiscal austerity which has been implemented under IMF financial
stabilization programs (1979, 1981, 1983, 1985). Additional measures to
improve the balance of payments have also been implemented through two
structural adjustments programs financed by IDA (1983, 1985). In 1985, the
overall fiscal and the balance of payments current account deficits were
reduced to 1.4% and 6.3% of GDP, respectively.
2.02      Despite the significant progress made under these stabilization
programs, Togo's economic and financial situation and prospects remain
precarious. Togo's future growth depends largely upon market conditions for
its primary commodities which are expected to be mixed over the next few
years. Balance of payments projections indicate a deterioration in the
current account deficit. Over the medium term, the rate of economic growth
will rise only slowly while external debt service will continue to be high,
even after debt rescheduling. Thus, the need for external financing will
remain strong over the next few years.



- 2 --
III. THE RURAL SECTOR
A.   The Agricultural Sector
3.01      Togo's agricultural sector accounts for about 30% of GNP and
employs about 1.0 million persons full or part time (about 80% of the
national labor force). Domestic crop production assures a satisfactory
overall level of food self-sufficiency (about 1,800 calories per person per
day). At the same time, the sector produces cocoa, coffee and cotton which
contribute about 30% of Togo's export earnings with cocoa and coffee
providing about 20%. Taxes on export crops and profits on export crop
trading generate about 10% of Government's revenues.
3.02      Farmers plant annually about 450,000 ha in foodcrops (maize,
sorghum, yam, cassava), 30,000 ha in cotton, while the area of perennial
crops is 110,000 ha in coffee, cocoa and oil palm. Fooderops account for
about 75% of agricultural production and the cash crops for the remainder.
Growth in the sector has been modest since the early 1970s: about 2% p.a.
for cereals, slightly less than 1% p.a. for root crops, and an actual
decline in coffee and cocoa production. The major exception of these trends
has been in cotton production which has grown at 8% p.a. Most of the growth
in annual crops has come from area expansion. It does not appear that this
modest performance has resulted from lack of resources or uncontrollable
factors. An adequate land base exists. Rainfall has been more sporadic in
recent years than in the past, but Togo has not been as severely affected as
its northern neighbours. With more than 50% of cultivated land found on
farms of more than 2 ha, farm structure has been adequate to permit the
production of marketable surpluses. Farmers themselves have been willing to
innovate and to adopt improved technology when this has been shown to be in
their interest. The major constraint thus lies at the sectoral policy rather
than at the farm level. Farmers as a whole have not been adequately
serviced, and equally important, they have not received the prices required
to permit and encourage widespread investment in improved techniques.
These Issues are being addressed under structural adjustment programs as
well as in sectoral lending.
B.   The Institutional Framework
3.03      Responsibility for the agricultural sector is shared by two
ministries. The Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du DEveloppement
Rural, MDR) is essentially concerned with policy formulation and
coordination of production activities and includes directorates for
research, development, cooperatives and credit, livestock, and training.
The Ministry of Rural Equipment (Ministere de l'Amenagement Rural, MAR) is
concerned primarily with lnfrastructural development and support services,
and includes directorates for rural engineering, pedology, plant protection,
veterinary services, forestry and fisheries, and produce inspection.
3.04      Because of weak Government institutions, execution of agricultural
development projects has been generally entrusted to independent project



units which focussed on specific tasks, such as Societe Nationale pour le
Palmier a Huile (SONAPH) for oil palm, Societe Togolaise du Coton (SOTOCO)
for cotton, and Soci6t6 Nationale pour la Renovation et Dgveloppement de la
Cacaoyere et de la Caffiire Togolaise (SRCC) for coffee and cocoa. In
addition to their crop specific mandates, these organisations have come to
assume broad responsibilities for general extension, applied research, input
supply, seed production, marketing, road construction and maintenance, and
social infrastructure development. These organizations have had
comparatively limited clientele (e.g. SOTOCO about 100,000 farmers, SRCC
about 24,000) although these farmers are relatively well served. A broader
approach to extension is currently under examination in the context of a
proposed Agricultural Extension Project (FY88S).
3.05      Agricultural credit is a responsibility of the National Bank for
Agricultural Credit (Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, CNCA). In
accordance with the recommendation of the Central Bank of West Africa, the
preferential interest rate for lending in agriculture is 8% to 9%, while the
commercial rate is 9.5% to 14.5%. A Project Credit Unit (Unite de Credit du
Projet, UCP) was created in CNCA in 1974 to handle the coffee and cocoa
development in the project area (para 3.12).
3.06      The Ministry of Trade and MDR supervise two agricultural state
trading companies: Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) which
purchases and exports coffee, cocoa, cotton, palm oil, and palm kernels; and
TOGOGRAIN for procuring domestic food crops. OPAT's trading activities
produce sizeable surpluses for the Government. These have been used to
finance overall Government expenditures and development in general, with
some 6% reinvested in agriculture. OPAT is also responsible for price
stabilization, but except for 1985/86 cotton trading, this has not been
necessary owing to low producer prices compared to realized export prices.
TOGOGRAIN was intended to play a stabilizing role for fooderops by timely
interventions in the market. However, it did not master the techniques
required of a price regulatory agency and has now become a manager of
security stocks of about 10,000 tons.
3.07      Agriculture research is carried out by researchers (both
expatriate and local) employed by the commodity-oriented institutes such as
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cutures Vivrieres
(IRAT) for fooderops, Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et les Plantes
Textiles (IRCT) for fiber crops and Institut de Recherches du Cafe et du
Cacao (IRCC) for coffee and cocoa. Soil studies, classification, mapping,
and analytical work are undertaken by Office de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique Outre-Mer (ORSTOM). Foodcrop research is also carried out by the
Directorate for Agricultural Research in MDR.
C.   The Coffee and Cocoa Subsector
3.08      Coffee is planted in the Plateau region, principally in the
Akposso and Dayes areas (Map 19605). The area planted in coffee is
estimated at 60,000 ha, although only some 35,000 ha of Niaouli varieties
are reported in production outside the 16,600 ha of Robusta planted under



- 4 -
the first two IDA supported Cocoa-Coffee Development Frojects. Farm size is
relatively small, with an average of about 0.7 ha in Robusta coffee, and/or
one ha in Niaouli coffee, and one ha in foodcrop for a family of about
seven. Average yields are 100-150 kg per ha for old Niaouli coffee trees
compared to 500 kg per ha for newly planted and adequately maintained
Robusta coffee trees. Robusta plantation in the Akposso area could
potentially produce two tons per ha. Coffee production reached a peak of
17,000 tons in 1968/69 and rapidly declined in the early 1970s. This was
partly due to inadequate services in providing improved planting materials
and technical advice to farmers, and partly because the producer prices have
been set too low to induce growers to care for their plantations. Two
IDA-financed projects were aimed at removing these constraints (paras 3.10 -
3.11), and the technical recommendations have been well accepted by farmers.
At present, the level of production is around 10,300 tons.
3.09      Cocoa cultivation is also concentrated in the Plateau region, in
particular in the Litime and Kloto plains (Map 19605). The total area under
cocoa is estimated at 35,000 ha. Farmers in the area have on average 4 ha
of cocoa and 0.5 ha in foodcrops. Very little cocoa was planted in the
1960s because of low prices and the absence of a development effort geared
to provide farmers with technical and financial assistance. In 1969,
Government took steps to provide support for the cocoa subsector. A program
to control capsid pests and swollen shoot virus disease was successfully
initiated, and in 1971, a cocoa rehabilitation program with financial
assistance from FAC was started. The IDA-financed Cocoa-Coffee Development
project was a follow up to this program (paras 3.10 - 3.11). The
achievement to date has been disappointing due to inappropriate replanting
techniques as well as inadequate financial incentives, aggravated by the
land tenure problems. In addition, serious technical constraints were
evident in the form of pests (mirid), and diseases (swollen shoot and
blackpod). These could only be controlled with substantial chemical
treatments which were not financially affordabl.e at the low producer prices.
After reaching a peak of 29,000 tons in 1970/72, cocoa production declined
markedly to an annual average of 15,000 tons during 1975-84, and 5,500 tons
in 1985/86. Average yields are low, around 150-200 kg/ha. Where adequate
measures have been taken to control pest and disease problems, yields of 400
kg/ha could be expected. Details on the historical production and pricing
movements are presented in Annex 3.
D.   Experience in Past Lending
3.10      At the Government's request, the Association helped finance a
Cocoa-Coffee Development Project in 1974. Its main objectives were to:
plant s.ome 4,400 ha of cocoa and 4,000 ha of coffee; strengthen the
executing agency, SRCC, and the agricultural bank, CNCA; conduct applied
tree crop research; construct and rehabilitate about 160 km of feeder roads.
A Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 4552) on this project was
prepared in June 1983. The coffee planting program was substantially ahead
of appraisal estimates (43%) while the cocoa plantings were only half the
estimates. The project proved to have closely integrated adaptive research,



-5-
production and distribution of improved planting material, extension and
supervised credit disbursement, and through its feeder road program, has
facilitated the spread of these activities in the cocoa and coffee producing
area. Management of the Project Credit Unit was punctilious but operating
costs were high relative to the volume of lending. Project yields were
lower than appraisal estimates because of slower response to the new
cultural practices. However, the revised economic rate of return was still
satisfactory at 20% for the project as a whole.
3.11      The need for continuing cocoa and coffee rehabilitation led to
further financing by IDA, CCCE, and FAC of a Second Cocoa-Coffee Development
Project in 1979. This project, which is expected to be completed in
December 1986, provided for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500
ha of coffee and 4,000 ha of cocoa as well as services, applied research,
associated foodcrop development and seed production, and construction of 300
km of feeder roads. From the start of the project, the cocoa component
encountered serious technical difficulties due to unsuitable replanting
techniques under the local conditions and the prevalence of mirid pests and
blackpod disease (para 3.09). Only 20% of the replanted area is expected to
yield satisfactory results. In view of the poor performance of the cocoa
component, a detailed mid-term review of the project was carried out by the
Bank. As a result, the Government took a decision to revise project
objectives and stopped all new plantings of cocoa (after 500 ha had been
achieved). A pilot program was set up starting in 1985 to test, on farm
sites, various blackpod control techniques as well as alternative methods of
replanting old cocoa. The plant protection program was strengthened with
additional staff and equipment and better management. Support was also
provided from IRCC to this unit in various techniques to control the disease
and to monitor the effect of treatments. The coffee planting program,
however, continued to be at 10-15% above appraisal estimates. A pruning
program has been undertaken to sustain yield levels and a promising start
was made without the provision of a financial incentive (prime de recepage)
as proposed under the second project. The number of farmers participating
in the 1985/86 pruning program is at least triple that of the previous year
(about 1,000 farmers covering 750 ha).
3.12      Togolese institutions performed well in project execution.
Extension services provided by SRCC continue to be satisfactory. However,
some improvements could be made in the use of extension workers' time in
various tasks and in the training content and method. Road implementation
continues to progress well due to an excellent organization and
implementation capacity. SRCC management has been effective but there is
little delegation of responsibilities, and control is mainly by expatriates.
Credit was administered by the UCP. Between 1975-1985 UCP's costs were
within an acceptable limit (5% of outstanding loans) considering that over
30,000 separate small accounts were involved. However, recovery of credit
has been slow and arrears high. By 1985, the actual recovery of credit
awarded for plantation establishment was only 55% of credit due for coffee
and 10% of credit due for cocoa. Recovery of seasonal credit was 40%. This
performance is explained in part by the fact that credit was distributed
through loosely constituted groups with no organized means of repaying, and



- 6 -
no adequate marketing channel such as exists for cotton which provides a
check-off system for credit recovery from individuals. Moreover, the
combination of generous cash advances to cover hired labor costs during the
establishment period, and official low producer prices for coffee and cocoa,
had the effect of raising farmer's debt service costs to as much as 30% to
35% of net farm cash income which discouraged voluntary repayment. UCP has
been able to cover its operating costs with the recoveries it makes, but by
end-1985, credit worth about CFAF 1.6 billion (US$4.6 million) was
outstanding, almost all of which is still considered recoverable if the
credit program continues. UCP also held cash balances of about CFAF 740
million at CNCA, but owed Government about CFAP 2.4 billion borrowed under
the first and second projects. Thus, while UCP is theoretically solvent,
this set of circumstances will have a negative Impact on UCP's cash flow
during the first few years of the proposed project. These issues will be
addressed in the proposed project (paras 4.17 - 4.18).
E.   Project Formulation and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.13      In March 198', the Government formulated a medium term strategy
for the development of the rural sector. The Government's strategy calls
for the continuing promotion of coffee and cocoa production in view of their
major contribution to export earnings and farm incomes. However, low yields
of ageing trees and poor genetic potential of most existing plantations are
key factors limiting the productivity of the sector. It is also clear that,
at least in the case of coffee, farmers are more interested in expanding
areas planted with improved material, rather than attaining maximum yields
from areas already planted. This is due principally to low official
producer prices which favored low input and low effort technology even in
managing high potential trees, and generous cash payments on credit to help
finance plantations under the first two projects. While there is a need for
continued coffee and cocoa replantings, better maintenance and more
Intensive cultivation is necessary to make full use of the potential being
planted. Thus, it has also been agreed that improved productivity of
existing cocoa and coffee plantations through an appropriate pricing policy
and improved servicing of cocoa and coffee growers should be pursued.
3.14      The areas planted under the first two projects are about 16,600 ha
of coffee and 2,600 ha of cocoa, a total of 19,200 ha. This represents
about 24% of the existing 80,000 ha of coffee and cocoa plantations, most of
which is of low yielding, obsolescent plantations owned by relatively poor
amall farmers.   The present level of coffee production, including that from
the first two projects, is about 10,300 tons which is well below the
international quota for Togo of 18,000 tons. Thus, there is ample room for
expanding and marketing coffee production. There Is no international quota
on cocoa. Improvements in cocoa production are justified on grounds that
the present level of production is well below the historical peak reached in
1971/72 of 29,000 tons. Furthermore, most farmers producing coffee and
cocoa are small family operations with incomes substantially below the
average national per capita income. Thus, there continues to be a need to
promote greater productivity in t+ee crop production in the interest of
increasing rural incomes.



- 7 -
3.15      During meetings held between Government, CCCE, FAC and IDA in
early October 1985, there was general agreement that a third externally
financed project for cocoa and coffee development would be justified for the
reasons -'ted above.  The momentum achieved under the second project for the
coffee rehabilitation program needs to be supported until SRCC and farmers
can self finance the development of the coffee-cocoa industry. Also, in
view of the experience under the first two projects, there is general
agreement that the focus should now be oriented towards more growth in
productivity rather than just in area expansion, given the limited capacity
of SRCC, emerging signs of land constraints, and the higher marginal
benefits from intensification than from extensification. With respect to
the cocoa program, nev replanting techniques adaptable to cocoa farmers in
the area need to be explored. However, high returns could be achieved from
continuing with an adequate maintenance program of existing cocoa trees.
The proposed project fits IDA lending strategy in agriculture as it is aimed
at supporting investments with high returns as well as promoting exports and
increasing foodcrops production.
P.   The Project Area
3.16      The project would be located about 100 km from Lome in the western
part of Togo's Plateau region which is well suited to cocoa and coffee
cultivation (Maps No. 19605 and 19606). The project area is delimited by
four urban centers (Kpalime, Arakpamei, Badou and Amlame) and covers about
580,000 ha. It has a population of about 330,000 with a density varying
from 30 to 100 inhabitants per km2.
3.17      Climate.  The climate is tropical with a bimodal rainfall pattern
strongly influenced by the mountainous characteristics of the area. As a
consequence, the project area enjoys generally higher precipitation than the
rest of the country. Rainfall averages 1,400 mm annually and is distributed
over eight months in more than 100 rainy days. The dry season falls between
November and February.  Temperatures vary betwaen 21°C to 26°C.  Humidity is
high throughout the year.
3.18      Topography.  The topography is heterogenous, encompassing
lowlands, plateaus and mountains. The area can be divided into four zones
(Map 19605):
(a) Zone I, consists of lowlands situated in the eastern part of the
project area. It has an altitude less than 300 m and an average
rainfall of about 1,300 mm. The area is predominantly a coffee
zone with low productivity, about 200 kg/ha.
(b)  Zone II is situated mainly in the plateau between 300 m to 500 m
of altitude, with an average rainfall of about 1,400 mm. The zone
is predominantly a coffee producer with an average yield of about
400kg/ha. Some cocoa is also cultivated in the south in the Kloto
plains.



(c) Zone III consists of highlands to the west of the project area.
It is the most productive area for coffee production due to the
high altitude above 500 m and the favorable rainfall of about
1,500 mm. The average yield is about 650 kg/ha.
(d) The plain of Litime consists of lowlands near the Ghanaian border.
It has an altitude of 200 m and is predominantly planted in cocoa.
With an average rainfall of about 1,400 mm, it is well suited for
cocoa cultivation.
3.19      Soils.  The most cultivable soils in the project area are
ferralitic, derived from quartz or schist, with some ferruginous soils over
granite or gneiss on the eastern fringe of the area, and a pocket of fertile
brown soils over basic rock around Mt. Agou. Generally, about two thirds of
the cultivable soils are considered suitable for both cocoa and coffee
plantings.
3.20      Land Tenure.  Traditionally, as in other parts of West Africa,
land rights have been vested in the village authority and administered under
the tribal law. The development of cash crops and the limited land in the
project area have resulted in a different pattern of land tenure.
Individual village members have acquired quasi-permanent land rights which
they may transfer to non-village members under rental or sharecropping
arrangements. This is a situation found rarely in other West African
countries. The arrangements and agreements between the landowners and the
tenants of coffee and cocoa farms vary according to locations. In the
coffee growing areas, one traditional system which appears to work well
involves both the owner and the tenant signing an agreement to allow the
tenant, who is the recipient of the credit, take two thirds of the produce
from the farm while it is under credit. Subsequently, the area developed
may be divided equally and the tenant would then become the owner of half of
the farm. He may then continue to work on the owner's half under a further
sharecropping agreement. On the other hand, in the cocoa growing area, the
remuneration under the present sharecropping arrangement appears to be a
major factor hampering cocoa development. The most popular sharecropping
arrangement is the system where the tenant prepares the land, plants and
maintains the trees, and harvests the crop. For this, he only receives a
fixed sum per harvested beadload of cocoa pods (CFAF 1,500 per headload of
32 kg). Consequently, sharecroppers are not willing to invest in better
maintenance of exist-ing plantations as at the present price level, the,
returns to labor would be below the opportunity cost of labor in the area.
As the understanding of the sharecropping practices in the project area is
still inadequate to arrive at appropriate solutions, the Government would
complete a study on this issue for whi"h terms of reference have been
agreed, no later than December 31, 1987, and implement the recommendations
by June 30, 1988.
3.21      Cultivation Practices.  About 136,600 l,a (23% of the total area)
are under cultivation. Most of the farmers in the area practice both
cultivation of fooderops and cash crops. About 50,000 ha are under
foodcrops, 35,000 ha under Niaouli coffee, 16,600 ha under Robusta coffee,



and 35,000 ha under cocoa. Fooderops consist of maize (40% of area under
fooderops), rootcrops (35%), rice (11%), groundnuts (5%), and cowpeas (5%).
The remainder is cultivated in sorghum, potatoes, vegetables and bananas.
All work is dlone manually, with little use of fertilizer and improved
varieties. Average yields are: 1 ton per ha of maize, 0.9 ton per ha of
rice, 0.7 ton per ha of groudnut, 0.5 ton per ha of cowpeas and 7 tons per
ha of rootcrops. The casherops are mainly coffee and cocoa with areas and
yields described above (paras 3.08 to 3.09).
3.22      Communications.  The project area has an excellent road connection
with Lome and there also exists a railway connection between Lome and
KpalimE.  Within the project area, major rural centers are connected by good
tarmac roads. There is also an increasing number of rural roads that were
constructed by SRCC under the first two projects. However, there is a need
for feeder roads to reach remote villages in the plateaus of Dayes and
Akposso, the most productive area for coffee. These roads are essential to
the coffee planting program and would be included under the proposed
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The objective of the project would be to increase coffee and cocoa
production through both improving the productivity of investments made under
the first and second projects and planting in new areas. Simultaneously,
the project would improve fooderops productivity in the project area in
order to release labor for better cultization of export crops. The project
would also propose measures for a grh4cWl transfer of responsibilities from
SRCC to farmers in activities such as establishing village nurseries,
distribution of inputs, and marketing. The proposed project would be
implemented over a period of five years and would include:
(a) Agricultural Development:
-    provision of inputs and technical advice to farmers for
the planting of 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha of
coco&, maintenance of existing coffee planted under
the first two projects, and development of some 22,000
ha of food crops (maize, rice and groundnut).
-    implementation of annual programs of mirid control over
35,000 ha of cocoa through government actions, and
blackpod control by farmers over some 3,000 ha of cocoa
by the fourth year of the project.
(b) Applied Research:
-    provision of technical jervices, infrastructure,
equipment and vehicles to IRCC and DRA/IRAT, for



- 10 -
carrying out short term adaptive research in cocoa,
coffee, and foodcrops.
(c) Feeder Roads:
-    provision of equipment, materials, and vehicles for
SRCC to construct about 250 km new feeder roads in the
coffee areas and maintenance of existing roads
constructed under the first two projects (500 km) and
roads completed under the proposed project.
(d) Institutional Development:
-    establishment of about 250 farmers' associations for
marketing of produce, distribution of inputs,
esrtblishing village nurseries, and constructing
village stores.
-    support to allow SRCC to play an expanded development
role through training, technical assistance and
provision of essential vehicles and materials to
implement the project.
(e) Studies
-    a study of the future strategy for cocoa and coffee
development.
-    a study of land tenure practices.
B.   Detailed Features
1.   Coffee and Cocoa Plantings
4.02      The coffee planting program, about 7,500 ha over a five-year
period, would be undertaken by smallholders on land cleared of old and
unproductive plantations and fallows. The project would finance the
production and distribution of rooted cuttings, credit for fertilizer and
materials required for farmers' nurseries, and technical advice to about
17,500 farmers. Each new participating farmer would be expected to plant on
the average 0.6 ha of coffee, while existing coffee growers would plant an
extra 0.3 ha. Participants would be selected according to criteria
acceptable to IDA (para 4.16). The main improvement from the second project
would be the promotion of village nurseries and an increase of planting
density from 1,320 to 1,650 trees per ha. The phasing of the planting
program is described in Annex 4-1.
4.03      The project would continue to support a limited program of on-farm
trials of methods for replanting cocoa under interplanting and through hedge
planting (haie fruitiare). A limited program (50 ha), tested during the
last two years, needs to be expanded in order to produce meanIngful results



- 11 -
(para 3.11). These methods differ from the technique previously employed in
that cocoa trees would be planted in full sun but with windbreak, a
technique successfully tested in C8te d'lvoire. Furthermore, they would not
require felling all old cocoa trees, a factor which discouraged farmers from
participating in the previous projects. The hedge planting method would
also allow foodcrops interplanting which would be attractive to both owners
and tenants. The planting target, about 450 ha over a three-year period, is
considered appropriate given the uncertainty surrounding the suitability of
the proposed replanting technology. An ap'urance was obtained from
Government that a joint review between IDA and SRCC would take place no
later than November 30, 1989 in order to determine whether the cocoa program
would continue. The criteria for the review would be the farmers' response
to the techniques introduced and yield increase in the areas treated for
pest attack. If the technical solutions will have been successfully tested
and satisfactory progress has been made on the sharecropping problems (para
3.20), the planting program would be increased by 1,550 ha during the last
two years of the project. The project would finance the production of cocoa
hybrid plants, insecticide treatments against pest damages to young cocoa
plants, and other inputs (fertilizer, moisture retainers), and technical
advice to selected farmers according to criteria acceptable to IDA (para
4.16). The phasing of the program is presented in Annex 4-1.
2.   Coffee Maintenance Program
4.04      Coffee trees planted under the first two projects are now in
production and there is a need to maintain these trees through frequent
weeding (about four times a year), regular application of fertilizer (about
400 kg/ha), and adequate pruning to maintain young fruit bearing branches.
The pruning program was started in 1982/83 with about 130 ha, increasing to
about 750 ha in 1985/86. In the areas due for pruning, farmers would be
advised to prune about a third of the area annually starting from the
seventh year. Under this assumption, about 7,700 ha would be expected to be
pruned during the project implemeatation period (Annex 4-1). In addition,
there are about 1,800 ha that are overdue for pruning. Prioritv. however,
should be given to areas reaching the pruning stage (7,700 ha'. T'he project
would finance technical advice and credit for fertilizer to about 11,000
farmers (45% of total existing farmers) expected to join the pruning
program.
3.   Plant Protection Program
4.05      To avoid serious crop damage on existing cocoa plantations due to
attacks of mirid pests and blackpod disease, the project would finance a
plant protection program. The mirid control operation would be undertaken
by the plant protection service of SRCC, and the blackpod control program by
individual farmers. The project would finance equipment, vehicles,
additional personisl, and insecticides needed to mount the mirid control
program over an area of 35,000 ha annually. Under the previous project, the
mirid control program, financed by OPAT, was not carried out properly due to
inadequate supervision and poor management. Given the high benefit/cost
ratio of such an operation (in the order of 7:1 at an economic price of



- 12 -
about CFAP 600/kg), it would be beneficial to the Government to assure a
proper control program. Measures have been taken during the last two years
to strengthen the operation (para 3.11). In addition, under the proposed
project, Government would cause SRCC to contract an independent inspector
annually to certify the effectiveness of such an operation. The project
would also finance the purchase of knapsack sprayers and fungicides to be
sold to farmers for blackpod treatments. The treatment method has been
tested successfully in 400 ha under the second project. The operation would
be limited to about 3,000 ha of owner managed plantations which are the
areas of productive existing cocoa (above 300 kg/ha) that farmers can afford
to treat at the present producer price (see also Annex 4-11). The phasing
of the plant protection program and the technical description of the mirid
control program are provided in Annex 4-1. The swollen shoot disease which
was a major problem in the past has been brought under control and no
further measures need to be taken under the project. IRCC is monitoring the
occurence of this disease and control measures would be readily introduced
if the need arises.
4. Foodcrop Development
4.06      Foodcrop production in the prcject area would be intensified in
order to release labor for better maintenance of coffee and cocoa while
maintaining an adequate supply of cereals to farm families. The project
would provide improved seeds (through seed multiplication at the farm
level), credit for fertilizer (along with credit for coffee and cocoa
planting), and technical advice to farmers. Priority would be given to
areas interplanced with coffee and cocoa. About 22,000 ha of fooderops
would be developed during the project period and would consist of maize:
9,860 ha, rice: 7,800 ha, groundnuts: 2,880 ha and cowpeas: 1,500 ha. The
areas are estimated on the basis of the capacity to produce improved seeds.
The phasing of the seeds and fooderops program is in Annex 4-1.
5.   Applied Research
4.07      The major focus of the research program would continue to be the
direct support for the national cocoa and coffee program. An increased
emphasis would be placed on short term adaptive research. This would
include: a) for cocoa, introduction and selection of hybrid materials with
resistance to drought, blackpod and swollen shoot; determination of
fertilizer requirements for different ecological zones; testing of
replanting techniques for old degraded cocoa, and refinement of measures to
control blackpod diseases and mirid pests; b) for coffee, testing of new
Robusta clones for high yield and drought resistance; fertilizer
requirements for various zones; maintenance techniques; and pruning cycles.
The applied research program would be carried out by IRCC   The Government
would cause SRCC to arrange a yearly independent review of the 1RCC research
program and budget. The project would finance additionsl housing for IRCC
in the Litimg area, equipment, laboratory and experiment mnaterials,
greenhouses, vehicles, short term consulting services, training program for
local staff, and operating costs to carry out the defined research progra.
Foodcrop research would be carried out by the DRA and IRAT with an overall



- 13 -
objec-tive of development of a stable intensified agricultural system with
yield driven growth. Research would focus on on-farm trials of improved
varieties and technologies, particularly in maize, the main staple fooderop
in the area. The project would finance materials, equipment, and short-term
consultants for DRA and IRAT. Details of the research programs are provided
in Annex 4-2.
6.   Feeder Roads
4.08      The road program for the cocoa and coffee area, which was started
in 1972 by SRCC, would be continued under the project. It would consist of
construction of 250 km of feeder roads and maintenance of those constructed
under the first two projects and those completed under the project.   The
program would be carried out by the SRCC feeder road service (para 4.13)
which is well organized and has performed well in the past. The standards
would be the same as under the first two projects which have proved to be
appropriate. Total per km cost Is estimated to be CFlY 2.6 million
(US$7,000) for the road construction and rehabilitation and CFAF 100,000
(US$270) for the maintenance component 1/. Construction would be mainly in
new areas of zone II and III where most of the new coffee plantings would
take place. The project would finance equipment and vehicles to carry out
the additional work. Because of the difficult work conditions in the
mountainous area with a high incidence of solid rock and boulder outcrops at
formation level, the project would also finance purchases of one heavy
bulldozer and and some blasting materials. Details of the road construction
program are in Annex 4-1 and Annex 4-3.
7.   Farmers' Associations
4.09      At present, SRCC staff is responsible for supplying and
distributing inputs to farmers. This has resulted in high operating costs
for SRCC and preempted the time that could be used by SRCC staff for
extension purposes. The project would attempt to transfer some of this
responsibility to farmers through the establishment of farmers' associations
(FA). They would have the following objectives: (i) to collect coffee and
cocoa from the village for sales to licensed agents; (ii) to construct
village stores for storage and sales of inputs and produce; (iii) to obtain
credit for village investments such 8as hulling machines; and (iv) to promote
group savings that could be used fof lending to members of the association.
The project would finance the services of a specialist to help set up about
250 FAs and train SRCC staff as well as representatives of the associations
in group formation and management (pa B 4.14). In addition, the project
would also finance limited materials (cement, steel bars, etc) for
construction of village stores. FAs would provide labor and local materials
l/   This compares favorably to offers proposed from the private sector of
about CYAP 3.5 million per km in less mountainous areas, and without
bridges (in 1984 price).



- 14 -
such as sand and gravel and construct the stores under the general
supervision and advice of SRCC sf.aff. To provide incentives for forming
groups, the Government has authorized FAs to market their coffee and cocoa
and to receive the sales commission attributed to primary marketing. This
would be a part of the marketing reform which would be implemented prior to
Board presentation (para 4.35).
8.   Institutional Support
4.10      SRCC has been effective in implementing the first two projects.
Historical data on the financial situation of SRCC are in the project file.
It would continue to be responsible for the agricultural development in the
cocoa and coffee area with an expanded role (para 4.11). To support SRCC in
its tasks, the project would finance 14 man-years of technical assistance
and 14 man-months of short-term consulting services (para 4.15), equipment
and vehicles (Annex 4-4), construction of about 6 central and 12 sectoral
offices, 2 central stores, a training facility and a strengthened program of
local staff training (Annex 4-5).
C.   Organization and Management
1.   Organizational Structure of SRCC
4.11      In the past, the Government's cocoa and coffee production policy
has been to expand areas and SRCC has had as its principal functions the
production and distribution of planting materials. To meet the objectives
that SRCC would function to increase output from both Improvements of
existing plantations and new plantings (para 4.01), SRCC's responsibilities
would be strengthened and expanded in the following areas:
(a) promoting planting and replanting of coffee and cocoa, and
selecting participants;
(b) assisting farmers to prepare farm plans and loan applications;
(c) assisting farmers in establishing village nurseries and
supervision of the operation;
(d) assisting farmers in establishing and managing village stores
for distribution of inputs, marketing of products and other
economic purposes;
(e) procuring inputs and implements for distribution to FVAs
and to individual farmers;
(f) providing technical advice to farmers to improve productivity of
existing investments in coffee and cocoa;
(g) executing and maintaining the project's infrastructure
development program; and



- 15 -
(h)  working in close contact with IRCC and IRAT so as to remain
up-to-date on progress and results of applied research on one
hand, and to provide a constant feedback of field problems
deserving research attention on the other hand.
4.12      SRCC is administered by a board of directors whose members include
representatives of: the Minister of Rural Development (President); the
Ministries of Planning, Finance, Commerce and Industry, Rural Equipment,
Transport, Foreign Affairs, and Interior; the Directors of OPAT, CNCA and
three representatives of coffee and cocoa growers. The overall
responsibility for project execution would continue to be vested in the
newly appointed General Manager (GM), who is a Togolese. He would be
assisted by an internationally recruited Technical Advisor.
4.13      The GM would supervise SRCC's main activities executed by four
departments: (a) the Agricultural Operations Department (Direction Operation
Agricole, DOA) is responsible for extension services, production and
supervison of planting materials, supply and distribution of inputs,
training and supervising farmers' associations and plant protection; (b) the
Training Department is responsible for organizing recycling and updated
monthly training for extension workers as well as the preparation of an
overall training plan for SRCC staff; (c) the Civil Works Department
(Direction Materiel, Batiment et Routes, NBR) is responsible for road
construction and maintenance, building maintenance, stocks management and
vehicle maintenance and (d) the Administration and Finance Department
(Direction Administrative et Financigre, DAP) is responsible for
project accounting, procurement, and personnel.
4.14      Assurances were obtained from Government that the positions of
General Manager, the Technical Advisor and Departmental heads would be
staffed at all time with personnel with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. To accomodate the expanded functions outlined above, as
well as new planting activities, additional staff would be recruited during
the first year of the project and would consist of: two assistants to the
extension chief, one of whom would be female; one deputy section chief for
extension in the Akposso sector (Map 19605); 12 deputy section chiefs for
administrative tasks and assistance to FAs in 12 sections, one deputy chief
for training and supervising FA; one deputy chief and two trainers for the
training department, one deputy and one mechanic trainer for the civil works
department, and three extension agents. The organizational chart of SRCC is
provided in Annex 4-6.
2.  Technl_..al Assistance
4.15      The project would finance 14 man-years of technical assistance.  A
new Technical Advisor to assist the GM in project execution would be
employed for a period of five years. A newly recruited specialist on
farmers' associations would be appointed for a period of three years, to be
extended for another two years if deemed necessary. Job descriptions of
these two positions were agreed and suitable candidates are being screened.
Staff appointments would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The



- 16 -
existing expatriate staff would continue their services under the proposed
project as follows: the Director of Agricultural Operations until mid-1989;
the Director of Training until end-1987; and the Director of Civil Works
until mid-1987. Qualified local staff to take over the positions of the
Director of Agricultural Operations, Director of Training, and Director of
Civil Works had been indentified prior to negotiations of the project and
would be sent abroad for management training during the first year of the
project. They would assume the positions vacated by the expatriates and
would stay with the project for at least five years.
3.   Criteria for Selecting Farmers
4.16      Before an interested farmer could participate in the coffee cocoa
planting program, SRCC extension service would have to be satisfied that he
has land of suitable quality for coffee and cocoa, and that he is capable of
properly establishing and maintaning his plantation, including the required
manpower. Basically, a family with about 2.4 active members would be
qualified for new planting of about 0.6 ha. Existing coffee growers who
have about 0.9 ha coffee would be limited to new planting of 0.3 ha in order
to ensure proper maintenance of both existing and new plantings with family
labor. Farmers would be required to form informal groups of at least five
members with a total area of at least three ha to facilitate delivery of the
technical package consisting of extension advice, the supply of planting
material, fertilizer, and pest control, and this has worked satisfactorily
in the past. For cocoa, interested farmers would have to be present and
work on the farms as under the present sharecropping practice (para 3.20),
tenants would not have incentives to participate in the project.
4.   Credit                      1
4.17      As under the first and second projects, credit would be awarded to
farmers to finance establishment and maintenance of coffee and cocoa
plantations. However, measures would be implemented to improve the poor
financial performance of the credit system (para 3.12). Firstly, the amount
of new credit awarded to farmers would be reduced from the current levels of
CFAF 110,000 to CFAF 120,000 per ha of coffee and CFAF 80,000 per ha of
cocoa, to CFAF 81,000 to CFAF 110,000 and CFAF 33,000, respectively, by
eliminating cash payments for labor while phasing out subsidies. Such cash
payments would be redundant with better selection of farmers (para 4.16)
based in part on availability of household labor. Credit would be provided
in kind (planting material and fertilizer during the establishment period,
and fertilizer during the production period). Secondly, coffee and cocoa
buyers would be held responsible for credit recovery under the new marketing
regulation (para 4.35). Thirdly, farmers would be encouraged to constitute
formal associations for marketing, distribution of inputs, and for savings
(para 4.09). The associations would also be used to improve credit recovery
as members would exercise pressure on one another to repay loans, Such a
system has worked well in a few villages where SRCC and UCP have set up
pilot groups. Finally, Government would assure that SRCC and UCP did not
award new credit (neither seasonal nor developmental) to farmers who were in
arrears. These measures are expected to gradually raise recovery rates from



- 17 -
the present level of 55% (para 3.12) to about 90% by 1991.
4.18      Financing #rrangements between Government and the UCP would also
be modified in order to preserve UCP's financial viability during the period
when credit recovery is improving. Under the second project, credit for
plantation establishment was provided at 8.5% interest for a period of nine
years, with a four'year's grace period. Seasonal credit was also granted at
8.5% interest. OPAT helped defray the administrative cost of UCP by
granting it 2.5% of the volume of credit awarded, raising UCP's effective
rate of interest to 11%. This arrangement allowed UCP to operate normally.
However, JCP was committed to begin repaying loans taken from Government
under the first and second projects to finance farmer credit, in the first
year of the proposed project. The low rate of credit recovery had not
yielded sufficient funds to repay these loans. As a result, in the absence
of appropriate actions, UCP's reserves would have been be eliminated and its
cumulative cash flow would have been negative from 1987 onwards. Raising
interest rates on new credit was not seen as a viable solution to UCP's cash
flow problem as a rate of 25% would have been required to cover outstanding
obligations and maintain the new credit program. This rate, given current
producer cocoa and coffee prices, would have resulted in debt service
charges of between 25% and 45% of farmers'cash incomes which would increase
the risks to further credit recovery. Therefore, Government has decided to
maintain present interest rates which are higher than expected inflation of
8%, and only slightly lower than commercial rates of 9.5% (para 3.05). OPAT
would continue to grant UCP 2.5% of the volume of credit awarded and
Government has transformed the CFAF 2.4 billion in longer term loans to UCP
into grants. This is justified considering that farmers are now receiving
about 40% and 50% of the export value of their coffee and cocoa crops
respectively. If the recovery rates which are expected were not achieved
(Annex 4-7), Government would have the short term credit, passed on to UCP
to finance fertilizer purchases, rescheduled. This rescheduling would only
occur on the recommendation of a joint Government/IDA review of UCP's
performance which would take place no later than August 30 of each year.
5.   Strengthening of Extension Services
4.19      The present extension service consists of one extension chief, two
assistants at Kpalim6, 12 eection chiefs, 6 deputy chiefs for large sections
and 176 extension agents (EAs). The EAs (in a ratio about 1 to 150) visit
groups of farmers (about 30-40 farmers) on a fortnightly basis. The program
of visits is not fixed and farmers are not aware of the date nor the message
to be passed. Furthermore, the EAs' activities are thinly spread between
extension work, distribution of inputs, allocation of credit and credit
recovery, the collection of subtanstial amounts of data and the preparation
of reports. The basic training of the EAs is weak and they are not
receiving regular updated training. The linkage with research is generally
close between IRCC and SRCC and technical recommendations on tree crop



- 18 -
production used at the farm level are generally sound. By constrast, the
linkage with the foodcrop research institute, IRAT, is weak. Consequently,
the EAs tend to ignore foodcrops or make inappropriate recommendations.
4.20      The project would attempt to improve the extension service as a
first step in the Agou sector (about 1,300 ha). The training program would
be upgraded. The existing EAs (12) work program would be more structured.
It would be organized on a fortnightly basis, with a fixed date to visit
groups of farmers. The EAs would receive fortnightly training where the
relevant theme for that particular period would be discussed. The method
would be replicated throughout the project area once the first step is
proven to bring a significant improvement to extension services. While
these improvements are being undertaken in the cocoa/coffee production zone,
a program to strengthen extension services throughout the country following
the same principles is being planned.
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      A Monitoring and Evaluation (ME) unit was established in 1983 to
carry out ad hoc studies and special evaluations, which have been useful
under the second project. This role would be expanded under the proposed
project.  The ME would: (i) systematically collect statistics that would
allow ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of projects; (ii) monitor and evaluate
farmer's response to various technical recommendations developed under the
project &nd changes in incentives; and (iii) to conduct specific studies in
response to the management's request. Routine monitoring of project
activities would remain the responsibility of various sections, which has
worked well under the second project.
7.   Present Status of the Project
4.22      All implementing agencies are already in existence, and current
facilities are adequate for the start-up of the project. Supplementary
offices required for additional staff would be constructed prior to Credit
effectiveness with financing from Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (para
4.24). Recruitment of additional international staff would also commence
prior to Credit effectiveness. Orders for the agricultural development
program (i.e. planting materials, fertilizer, seeds) are being placed which
should permit a quick project start-up in 1987.
D.   Project Costs and Financing
1.   Cost Estimates
4.23      The estimated cost of the project is US$33.2 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties amounting to US$1.1 million. The estimated
foreign cost component is US$19.9 million representing 60% of total costs.
A breakdown of cost estimates in February 1986 prices is given below.
Exchange rate for the dollar is assessed at CFAF 350. Annex 4-8 gives a
detailed breakdown by components and types of expenditure.



- 19 -
&=my of Project Costs by Crme  a
Foreign      of
as %of   Base
ITcal  Fb        Total  lcal  Forei      g Total   Total   Cost
GFAF billi          -     TS$iIml _n
-da
Develop ut         0.5     1.7      2.2     1.5      5.1     6.6      77      26
tprld Rseamcrdh      0.8     0.6      1.4     2.2      1.7     3.9      44      15
Ehxedr Roads        0.5      1.6      2.1     1.4      4.4     5.8      76      23
lThstltutal
Deveilqnat         1.7     1.4      3.1     5.2      4.2      9.4     45      36
Total Base Costs     3.5     5.3      8.8    10.3    15.4    25.7       60    100
CatedYbw341ies     0.1     0.3      0.4     0.3      0.8      1.1     73      4
Prloe CkfYibqses  0.9        1.2      2.1     2.7      3.7     6.4      58      25
Total. Cbes          4.5     6.8    11..3    133    19.9    33.2        60    129
-  -   =m  
a/liwlides UB$1.1 msilon of ta    an US$1.5 mIllm WF :van
4.24 P    yIcal                of 10% have been afllimd for operating costs other than
staff expse  and productim Inputs and 15% on builAig and road amstructIm. Price
ahave bee In l2uded on local costs at 8X, ard mi foreign costs at 6.8% for 1987
ar  1988, 72 for 1989 and 1990, and 4% for 1991.
2.       E    Plm
4.25     The total costs wold be finueed by MDA, CCEE, FAC, Go    ut and UCP as foUIIs:
(US$ miliuon)
Z of
Ircal      F gn        Total        Total
MA,                       6.6          11.3        17.9        54
snME                      2.1           3.6         5.7        17
PAC                       1.1           1.8         2.9         9
Qbvernmwt                 2.2           0.4         2.6         8
UCP                       1.3           2.8         4.1        12
Total                13.3         19.9        33.2        100
_            = _
External financing would be under parallel arrangements.  Details of the
proposed financing plan by items and by components are in Annex 4-8.  The
proposed IDA credit of US$17.9 million would finance 54% of the total
project costs, including US$6.6 million equivalent local costs financing.
The remaining external financing would be by CCCE (US$5.7 million
equivalent), and FAC (US$2.9 million equivalent). The Government would



- 20 -
finance part of wages and salaries, and equipment and operating cost for
the mirid control program (total of US$2.6 million), and UCP would finance
the credit requirement under the project (US$4.1 million) out of the
repayments from outstanding loans and grants from the Government (para
4.18). Effectiveness of financing agreements between the Government and
the CCCE and the FAC would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Proceeds of the IDA credit, the CCCE loan, and the PAC grant would be
passed on by Goveniment to SRCC. This is justified as SRCC is also a
governmental entity.
3. Recurrent Cost and Government Financing
4.26      Under the proposed project, the Togolese contribution would
amount to 20% of the total project cost. This is a significant increase
from the share of 13% under the second project. External financing would
cover the operating costs, and 58% of the personnel cost on a declining
scale (about US$4.6 million). This is justified given the tight budgetary
situation in Togo and the significant increase in the Government's
contribution to the development of cocoa and coffee sector. In the past,
Government's financing of the project has not been a regular item in the
annual budget. The inscription of the Government's contribution to the
project in the 1987 annual budget which is to be passed into law in
December 1986 would be a condition of Credit effectiveness, and it is
expected that the Government would maintain an annual budget item for SRCC
thereafter.
4.   Project Preparation Facility
4.27      To allow for a smooth transition of activities from the second
project to the third project, funds would be required from Project
Preparation Facility detailed as follows:
Project Preparation Facilities Fequirements
CFAF                US$
million              '000
Technical Assistance (for nine months)                130.5             372.8
Operating Costs (other than personnel                 142.5             407.2
for nine months)
Training                                               42.0             120.0
Research - Coffee/Cocoa                                46.0             131.5
Research - Fooderops                                   29.0              83.0
Rural Tracks - Construction (35 kms)                   92.0             263.0
- Maintenance (190 kms)                  27.0              77.0
Construction (buidings)                                 9.0              25.5
Contingencies                                           7.0              20.0
Total                                                 525.0           1 500.0
e 91=0m         cLacUac



- 21 -
5.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.28      Procurement arrangements are summarized below with figures in
brackets representing financing by IDA:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Element                      Procurement Method              Costs
ICB      LCB       Other     N.A.
Buildings, Housing and             ...      0.3        0.5 a/   ...        0.8
Basic Infrastructure                       (0.3)                          (0.3)
Equipment                          ...      ...        1.1 b/   ...        1.1
Vehicles                           3.0      ...        1.6 c/   ...        4.6
(3.0)                                   (3.0)
Tech. Assistance/Consultants       1.3      ...        1.6 d/              2.9
(1.3)                                   (1.3)
Incremental Agricultural Inputs  3.4        ...        0.3 e/   2.4 f/    6.0
(3.4)                                   (3.4)
Wages and Salaries                 ...      ...        ...      8.0 El    8.0
(4.2)     (4.2)
Operating Costs                    ...      ...                 9.7        9.7
(5.7)     (5.7)
Total                              7.7      0.3        5.1    ,201        33.2
(7.7)    (0.3)               (9.9)    (17.9)
a/ Constructed by farmers
bf According to CCCE, FAC, and government procedures
c/ Light and some heavy vehicles according to CCCE procedures
d/ According to CCCE and FAC procedures
e/ Fungicides to be procured after CCCE procedures
f/ Financed by Government and UCP
4.29      Vehicles, technical assistance and consultants, and incremental
agricultural inputs, for which IDA funds are to be allocated would be
procured through ICB. A small building program for houses, village stores
and basic infrastructure is scattered geographically and is not suitable for
ICB. It would be procured through LCB which is acceptable to IDA.
Buildings would include an extension and modification of .;zisting offices to



- 22 -
accomuodate the revamped Training Department, the M and E Unit, additional
staff (pars 4.14) and the transfer of the DAF from Lome to Kpalime, the
project headquarters. Additional heavy equipment, light vehicles and some
trucks would be financed by CCCE as the existing fleet of SRCC is of French
origin. Road construction and maintenance would be carried out by SRCC on
force account. The highly efficient and cost conscious road division has
been tested under the first two projects and has demonstrated its ability to
meet appraisal targets within budget, in a timely manner. All procurement
decisions in access of US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior
review, which would likely amount to 80X of the value of contracts for
vehicles and services.
4.30      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of six years
according to the standard profile for Togo, slightly modified to adjust for
advance financing 2/ (Annex 4-9), and on the following basis:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category               Atem            Amount             2 of Estimated Cost
I                  Buildings, etc.       0.2                      100
2                  Vehicles              2.5                      100
3                  Tech. Asst/Cons.      0.8                      100
4                  Operating Cost a/    4.7                       100
5                  Salaries              4.2                 93 for 1987
90 for 1988
75 for 1989
50 for 1990
25 for 1991
6                  Ag. Inputs            3.2                      100
7                  PPF                   1.5
8                  Unallocated           0.8
17.9
a/ Other than wages and salaries.
4.31      Under the first and second projects, statements of expenditure
(SOEs) provided by the project entity have been audited and found valid.
Under the proposed project, claims for disbursements on operating costs,
except for spare parts, fuel and lubricant for construction and maintenance
2/ The disbursement period for the first project is six years. The
second project has a longer disbursement period (seven years) due to
revised project objectives.



- 23 -
of feeder roads (about US$3.2 million) would be submitted on the basis of
SOEs. Supporting evidence would be available at the project site for
review by supervision missions. Terms of reference for the project's
external audit would include specific instructions for the verification of
SOEs submitted to IDA. Claims for other expenditures would be reimbursed
on the basis of supporting documentary evidence. Disbursement claims would
be submitted for amounts not less than US$20,000 or equivalent. To ensure
efficient and timely implementation of the project, agreements were sought
from Government that it would:
(a) cause SRCC and CNCA/UCP to continue maintaining in a banking
institution acceptable to IDA special accounts for project
expenditures;
(b) make an initial payment of CFAF 150 million (about US$429,000
equivalent) to the SRCC account. This would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness;
(c) replenish the accounts quarterly in advance on the basis of SRCC
annual budgets (para 4.32).
In addition, a special account equivalent to US$200,000 would be
established in a banking institution acceptable to IDA through withdrawal
of this amount from the IDA Credit. This would be used to purchase smaller
Items and materials, and for the intermittent financing of short term
consultant services. IDA would replenish the account upon receipt of
evidence of disbursements from the fund for allowable procedures.
6.  Accounts, Audit and Report Requirements
4.32      As under the first two projects, SRCC and CNCA/UCP would maintain
separates sets of accounts. SRCC's computerized general/cost accounting
system is undergoing a thorough review by external consultants under the
existing second project. A manual of procedures satisfactory to IDA would
be established. The research institutions, IRCC, DRA and IRAT, would
continue to maintain separate accounting records and present annual budgets
to SRCC for negotiation of annual contracts for implementation of their
respective research programs. Agreements on maintaining these arrangements
were obtained at negotiations.
4.33      As is current practice, both SRCC and CNCA/UCP would prepare
annual budgets for project implementation. Detailed budgets would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment not later than two months prior to
the beginning of the implementation year. The annual budget would be used
to control and monitor expenditures. The Financial Director would be
responsible for its preparation and for the submission of quarterly budget
comparisons to project management and IDA. Agreements on these conditions
were obtained at negotiations. Annual audits of SRCC and CNCA/UCP would
continue to be performed by independent firms acceptable to IDA. Audit
reports would contain a long form report on the project accounts and a
detailed report on internal control. The auditor would be required to



- 24 -
express an opinion on the reliability of SOE procedures, the legitimacy of
expenditures utilizing the IDA special account, and the utilization of
goods and services financed under the project. Audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months following the end of the SRCC
and CNCA/UCP financial years. Failure to provide such accounts within 90
days of the above deadline or unsatisfactory reporting would be cause for
stopping disbursements or reverting to disbursement on documentary
evidence. Agreement on these conditions was obtained at negotiations.
E.   Production, Marketing and Pricing
4.34      Production.  Coffee and cocoa production in Togo from existing
plantations and as a result of the three coffee/cocoa development projects
are detailed in Annex 4-10 and summarized as follows:
Coffee and Cocoa Production
(tons)
1986            1990             1995
Coffee
Niaouli                         4,800            3,500            2,000
First and Second Project        5,500            8,800            8,600
Third Project                       0              500            6,000
Total                       10,300           12,800           16,600
Cocoa
Existing Cocoa plus       )
First and Second Project )      5,500           5,500             5,500
Third Project                       0           1,900             5,500
Total                        5,500           7,400           11,000
Total coffee production would still be below the ICO quota for Togo (about
20,000 tons) by 1995. The level of cocoa production would be less than 40%
below the historical peak production of 29,000 tons in 1972. This is
consistent with the Bank's policy for lending in coffee and cocoa projects.
4.35      Marketing.  Primary marketing of cocoa and coffee is in the hands
of licensed traders, the largest of which is a mixed Government/private
firm (Societe Togolaise pour le Commerce des Produits, STCP) with a 70%
market share. All primary marketing terminates with sales of cocoa and
coffee to the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) which
monopolizes exports (para 3.06). Licensed traders maintain a number of
sub-buyers throughout the cocoa/coffee production area who receive products
from farmers. The situation is not effectively controlled, however, with
the result that there may be several sub-buyers in each village. This does
not create competition since commissions for licensed traders and
sub-buyers are negotiated periodically as part of the cocoa/coffee pricing



- 25 -
schedule (barames).   OPAT and Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Togo
(CNCA) have also prefinanced the buying activities of STCP and other
licensed traders. The traders in turn have prefinanced the sub-buyers.
However, a recent study of OPAT's operations showed that up to CFAF 1
billion could not be accounted for in reimbursements or products marketed.
CNCA is also reported to have lost up to CFAF 2 billion through
prefinancing licensed buyers who did not repay. Licensed buyers are also
known to have difficulties recovering loans made to sub-buyers. All of
this adds to the cost of the marketing system and uses funds which might
otherwise be naid to farmers in the form of higher cocoa/coffee prices.
Recently, OPAT and CNCA have discontinued prefinancing licensed traders.
In addition, the Government has issued a decree and a ministerial order to
regulate the operation of licensed buyers and sub-buyers, to authorize
farmers' associations to market their produce, and to assign new
responsibilities for credit recovery to the buyers.
4.36      Pricing.  Prices paid to coffee and cocoa farmers over the past
22 years have averaged 36% and 40% of the realized export value of the
respective crops in current terms. In real terms, they have declined
significantly since -.981, reaching 25% of the export value in 1984/85
(Annex 3). The nominal protection coefficients (NPC) for coffee and cocoa
since 1979/80 have been consistently below 0.5. While the NPCs appear to
be relatively stable, which is consistent with the Government's policy to
have stable producer prices and incomes, this stability is being guaranteed
at a low absolute level.  As illustrated in Annex a.-II, with higher coffee
producer prices, farmers would have more incentive .o move to an intensive
input technology. For cocoa, higher prices than the existing level are
required to encourage a majority of farmers to adopt improved husbandry and
maintenance practices to increase productivity of existing cocoa
plantations.
4.37      The dialogue concerning the effect of producer prices on farmers'
incentives and incomes are being carried out between the Government and IDA
under the Second Structural Adjustment Program (May 1985), in which the
Government agreed to raise prices for 1985/86 and 1986/87 to increase rural
income in real terms. In 1985/86, producer prices for coffee and cocoa
were raised by 16% and 10%, respectively. Government has recently agreed
to raise the respective prices by 10% and 9% for 1986/87. Under the
project, the Government would be asked to agree to the annual review c= the
producer prices for coffee and cocoa under the proposed project and adjust
them, if needed, prior to June 30 after consultation with IDA. The annual
review would be based principally on the following factors: (a) limits
imposed by world market conditions; (b) the level of expected productivity
and production increases; (c) demands on OPAT by the national treasury; and
(d) the incentive for adequate maintenance of existing investments.
F.   Benefits and Risks
1.   Project Benefits
4.38      The project's primary benefit would be the increases in
production and exports of coffee and cocoa, and thus in foreign exchange



- 26 -
earnings. Project-induced net foreign exchange earnings are estimated to
rise to about US$20 million in 1986 price annually by 1995 prior to
repayments of the proposed Credit. The planting program would benefit
about 17,500 families in the coffee and cocoa areas. The coffee maintenance
program would provide needed services to about 23,000 farm families who
participated under the first and second projects, and the plant pLoteetion
program would increase incomes for about 7,000 cocoa growers. Parm Incomes
would increase more than 100% at full development for new coffee growers
and more than 50% for existing coffee growers. Returns per man-day would
be above CFAF 1,000 which is higher than the present opportunity cost of
labour in the area (about CFAF 575 per man-day). Cocoa farmers' incomes
would more than quadruple as the result of the projett. Returns to labour
would be about CFAF 3,500 per man-day for owner-operated plantations. This
indicates that once farmers are convinced of the technical recommenda-
tion and the land tenure problems are resolved (para 4.03), the cocoa
replantation program could take off quickly. A summarv of farm budgets fo.,
coffee and cocoa is presented in Annex 4-12. The annual average income pov
capita for farmers in the project area would rise from ahout CFA? 23,000
(US$65) at present to CFAF 60,000 (US$170) at full development, putting
farmers incomes at the level of about 60% of the national average, about
the same level as the income of a low grade civil servant.
2. Financial Impact on Government Revenues
4.39      The financial impact of the proposed project on the Government's
revenues, as shown in Annex 4-13, is dependent on the rate at which the
Government continues to raise producer prices, as well as on the actual
development of world market prices. Under the assumption that the
Government would maintain the value of producer price for coffee and cocoa
in real terms, and using the Bank's projections on world prices, total
cocoa and coffee exp rts would generate government revenues of about
CFAP 6.1 billion (US$17.4 million), CPAF 6.5 billion (US$18.6 million) and
CPAF 9.1 billion (US$26 million) in 1987, 1990 and 1995, respectively. The
project would account for about 9% and 40% of cocoa and coffee export
earnings in 1990 and 1995, respectively in 1986 prices. Over the next .en
years, prior to payments of debt service, the discounted value of the
expenditures as a result of the project (at 10%) would amount to 70% of the
revenues. Details of the Goverment's cash flow is presented in Annex 4-13.
4.40      Under the project, the Government would be asked to finance part
of the personnel cost of SRCC and of project administration. Given the
level of earnings resulting from the cocoa/coffee exports, thero should not
be difficulty in continuing to finance these costs after project cOple-
tion. The relevant question is whether further development of coffee and
cocoa could be self-financed by the Government (including OPAT. INCA) and
farmers after the completion of the third project. This also depeads on
the results of the project, and whether the Government would pursue an
intensification or extensification policy. To assist Government in
planning a future strategy for the sector, the project would finance a
study which would be completed no later December 31, 1990.



- 27 -
3.   Environmental Impact
4.41      All pesticides used u-.der the project wvil  follow the
recommendations of the Direction de la Protection Vegetaux (DPV) in the
Ministry of Rural Development. All pesticides selected will be tested by
DPV for efficacy and safety under local conditions, including the
determination of pesticides residue levels resulting from use of the
product at the recommended dosage rates and frequencies.  The Government
would cause SRCC to select, handle and use the pesticides used under the
project in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
4. Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
4.42      Assumptions used for the calculation of ERR and sensitivity
analysis are detailed in Annex 4-?4. Using a project life of about 25
years and incremental benefits frcm the planting program and the plant
protection program, ERR for the project is estimated at 32X. Benefits from
the maintenance program for coffee has not baen included as it is difficult
to separate the effect of the third project from the previous two projects
in the existing area. The project would become marginal at 10 only if
benefits would be reduced by 56% and costs increased by 138X, or under the
scenario of a combination of a yield decrease by 25%, labour and inputs
costs increase by 25%, project cost up by 30% and benefits are delayed by
two years. This is not likely to occur given the experience in
Implementing the previous projects.
5.   rroject Risks
4.43      Since this project is built up from experiences gained from the
previous projects, the risk of failure is limited. The major potential
risk is the cocoa replanting program (accounting for 21 of the estimated
project costs), for which a joint Government/IDA review would take place
in the third project year to determine Whether it should be continued and
on what scale (para 4.03). Another risk would be the continued viability
of the credit unit (UCP), given the poor recovery performance under the
first two projects. Measures would be undertaken under this project (paras
4.17-4.18) to improve the recovery performance and thereby maintain credit
availability to farmers.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      The following assurances were obtained at Negotiations:
(a) Government would complete a study of land tenure and
sharecropping arrangements no later than December 31, 1987,
and would implement the recommendations by June 30, 1988
(para 3.20).



- 28 -
(b) A joint review of the cocoa program between IDA and SRCC
would take place no later than November 30, 1989 (para
4.03).
(c) Government would cause SRCC to contract an independent
inspector annually to assess the effectiveness of the mirid
control program (para 4.05).
(d) Government would cause SRCC to arrange an annual independent
review of IRCC research program and budget (para 4.07).
(e) The posts of General Manager, the Technical Advisor and
Deparmental Heads of SRCC would be staffed at all time with
personnel with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA (para 4.14).
(f) Staff who would be trained abroad would be asked to stay
with the project for at least five years (para 4.15).
(g) Government would cause SRCC and UCP to refuse new credit to
farmers who are in default (para 4.17).
(h) Government would cause OPAT to reschedule its short term
credit to UCP for purchasing of fertilizer when credit
recovery is less than the anticipated rate (para 4.18).
(i)  Government would cause OPAT to continue granting UCP 2.5% of
the volume of the credit awarded (para 4.18).
(j) Government would replenish SRCC accounts quarterly,
on the basis of their annual operating budgets (para 4.31).
(k) Government would cause SRCC and UCP to submit annual budgets
to IDA for review and comments two months prior to the
beginning of the implementation year (para 4.33).
(1) Government would carry out annual reviews of the producer
prices for coffee and cocoa and adjust them, if necessary,
prior to June 30 in consultation with IDA (para 4.37).
(m) Government would complete a study on long-term strategy for
cocoa and coffee development no later than December 31,
1990 (para 4.40).
(n) Government would cause SRCC to select, handle and use
pesticides in accordance with the Association's guidelines
(para 4.41).
5.02      Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) The Technical Advisor and the Specialist on farmers'
associations would be appointed (para 4.15).



- 29 -
(b) The financing agreements between the Government and the CCCE
and FAC would be effective (para 4.25).
(c) Government would inscribe in the 1987 annual budget its
financing of the project (para 4.26).
(d) Government would make a payment of CFAF 150 million to the
SRCC account in a banking institution acceptable to IDA
(para 4.31).
5.05      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a credit of US$17.9 million to the Government of Togo on
standard IDA terms.
WAPAA
November 1986



I.
THM COFfE U CACN M        EUELOT PE
PROITIU   OF MU  AND CC
1964/65 - 1985/86
lEAUR            COfFEE             COCOA
(tons)             (tons)
U5              8,571             17,5B7                                 TOGO COFFEE/COCOA DEV. PROJECT
66             13,588             14,807                                                  , ,         
67              5,488             16,317                       us-
be             10,516             18,337
69             17,206             19,979                       aI
70             13,M               23,188                      2S
71             13,875             27,978                       24 -
72              6,458             29,361                       22 -
73              6,809             18,604
74              6,63              16,539                      2S-
75              1,694             14,577                 9
76              8,512             17,785                                          a
77             10,429             14,117                       t-/
78              4,702             16,669                       14                                                                                                      o
79              6,143             12,602                       1  -
s0             10,383             15,554
e1              8,993             16,334                       t0
82              9,237             11,018
83              6,300             10,500
84              8,000             14,000
85             10,100              9,800                        4. ,       I  I  I  S  I  S  I  I  I  I  I  I  5  5
86             10,300              5,500                           M        *7      Of 70   1 72 73 74 7      5 n7 5 77 7  7     Bt  2  a       a so
ao0                       +  cocaX
U  q~~~  1~~~ ano~e1
0o
Fb.



7060
TNIRD COFFE  A    C    DECOCOA QOE   PRWOECT
PRICING  1 _OEE   (191996)
----In Cbrrent Teru-----                                                 In  Real Ters (1908/O)-
cOFE                                 COA                                  COFFEE                               COCOA
I    mxxxuv=z== ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    8=zn33g3i23=23=
Vea  PRODUCE      VALU                     POUCRM       VALUE                   PROUCRM      VALUE                   PmODUCER    VMSJJ
PRICE       FM         (             PRICE       FO         (2)           PRICE        FOB      (l)            PRICE        FOB        t2)
-ICtFtkq)--    -                     --ICFAF/kg)--   --                   ---(CFIFkg)--    --                  -ICFAf/kq)-
64165       75       128       59                70        97       72                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
65/6        70       147       48                40        99       41                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
W617        70       149       47                55       137       40                 -         -   _        _                       -
67161       75       156       4                 70       162       43                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
6819        75       156       48                90       219       37                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
69/70       75      207        34                8        201       44                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
79/71       75      211        36                93       156        0                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
71/72       7S      217        35                n3       151       62                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
72/73       80      203        39                93       203       46                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
n/74        95      241        39                95       356       27                 -         -        -                 -         -         -
74/5       105      232        45                115      29        38                 -         -        -                 -         -
75/76      115      616        19                120     403        30                135      97         14               141      63         22
7/m        125     1122        11                130      672       it                194     1611       11                19       965        20
17/73      145      667        22                150      m         19                213      933       26                221      964        23
79/79      190      671        27               200       758       26                243      739       33                270      935        32
79/80      200      639        31               220       569       39                241      642       38                265      571        46
g0/i1      200      541        37               220       478       46                200      541       37                220      478        46
91/82      215      622        35               225       542       42                179      631       28                198      550        34
S2/93      235      770        31               235       592       40                185      802       23                185      617        30
63/84      290      956        30               275       869       32                209     1013       21                198      921        21
84/95      315      850        37               300       900       38                225      895       25                214      942        25                  OQ
95/86      365      1176       31               330       696       47                242     1095       22                219      648        34                     N
86187      400      952        42               360       6M        52                247      859       29                m        631        35
0



- 32 -                     Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
TOGO COFFEE,'COCOA DEV. PROJECT
PRODUCe rOB PRICE (1914/86-1ea/87)
1.1
12'
0.0< - 
o0.8     COFFEE
'(in current prices)
0.7-
0.6-
0.58I
0.4
off fcial
producer price                     +    fob value
TOGO COFFEE/COCOA DEV. PROJECT
PRODUCER FOB PRICE (1964/65-1986/87)
1.2 -T
-S     o 
0*2-
~~   0.6      COCOA
1'  (in current prices)
0Z7
Q 0.6
~' 0.5
04
0.1
64/i/US/1/inin//7A/723/74/VS/VYs/n,u1b/70/su/W ,in/glU4/IM/7
official                        fob value
"   producer price                      f



Annex 3
33 -                           Page 4 of 4
TOGO COFFEE/COCOA DEV. PROJECT
PRODUCER tFO PRICE (1975/76-1986/57)
1.7 
1.6 -                                                COFFEE
1.3 _    / \                                    (in real terms,
1:::                                             1980/81 prices)
t-'    1.2
1.1 
a     0.9
*  0.7 
2  o.-
0.2-.
0.3-
0.2 -       ~-n              r       y
0-1    Ir -   i  - r r ---------
75/76 76/77 77/78 78/79 79/80 80/61 81/82  82/3 83/64 84/85 85/86 86/57
8   official prod. price                 +    fob value
TOGO COFFEE/COCOA DEV. PROJECT
PRODUCER/FOB PMCE (1975/76-1986/87)
1              -     . --                                     .-      ,--
0.9-  t-                         COCOA
(in real terms,
0.8 -                         1980/81 prices)
#% 0.7-
i. 0.6  
U
0   . 
*     0.4 -
0.3-
0.2-
0.1
0- -        ,                       T      i
75/76 7677 77/78 78/79 79/80 SO/S1 81/82 82/83 83/84 94/85 0/86 86/87
a   official prod. price               +   fob value



-34 -Ase  4-1
TNJTD COWNM3A  COCOA DWEOHT E  PROJECT
DULUINTATIOU 0SCU
1987           t196             1989             1990           1991           Total
A. Agriculeral Developmnt
1.  Coffee Planting (ba)               1,350            ,350           1,500            1,650          1.650           7,S0
2.  Cocoa Planting (ha)                  100             150              200             650            900           2,000
3.  Coffee Pruning (ha)                1,200           1,400            1,600           1,700          1,800           7.700
4.  Capaid Control (ba)               35,000          35,000           35.000          35,000         35.000             n/a
S.  Blackpod Control (ha)              1,000           2,000            3.000           3,000          3,000              -
6. Seeds iultiplication
Maise (ton)                           56              66               76              86             96             370
Rice (ton)                            76             116              144             144            144             624
Groundnut (ton)                       44              52              60               64             68             288
Conpeas (ton)                        5.5             6.5             7.5              8.5            9.5            37.5
7. Wood Crops Progrm
Nsize (ha)                         1,940           2,090           2,200            2,270          1.360           9,860
Rice (ha)                            950           1,950            1,800           1,800          I,8to           7,800
Groundnuts (ha)                      480             S20             600              640            680           2,880
Coupe". (ha)                         220             260             300              340            380           1,500
D. Weeder Roads
Construction (km)                         35              52               54              45             65             251
Maintenance                              381             376              376             416            428             a/a
C. Institutional Developent
Earmere' Associationa (No)                30              30              50               70             70             250
Technical Asaistance
Technical Advisor                     1.0             1.0             1.0              1.0            1.0             5.0
Director of Agrl. Operationo (t/y)   1.0              1.0             0.5               -              -              2.5
Training Director (U/y)               1.0              -               -                -              -              1.0
Civil Vork Director (sly)             0.5                              -                               -             0.5
Aseoclation Speciallat (u/y)          1.0             1.0             1.0              1.0            1.0             5.0
Sub-Total  (m/y)                         4.5             3.0             2.5              2.0            2.0            14.0
Short Term Consultants (m/u)               3               3               2                2              2              12
Offle s  (no) */                          18               _               _                _              _               _
Training Wacility (no)                     1               _                _               _              _               _
Houwlg (no) b/                            3               -               -                -              -               -
Central Store  (no) ci                     I               1                -               -              -
D. Studies
Land Tenure                            (oDe 31)        (June 30)                        (Dec 31)
Wuturs Strategy
E.   Pld-ter3 Raview                                                         (Nov 30)
_/ 6 at gpaliuS (headquarters) and 12 at 12 setore
b/ at Kpalim, housing conalsts of 3 small rooms for viltors/traintes
c/  one In sector Dayes, on  In sector Akpeso-"ud
EPAAA
October 1986



- 35 -                 Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 3
TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MIRID CONTROL PROGRAM
Introduction
1.        Mirid or capsid attack is a problem wherever cocoa is cultivated
in Africa, America and Asia. In West Africa where the pest is particularly
serioua, production losses are generally estimated at not less than 30%.
Damage results mainly from the insect feeding on stems and pods. Stems
affectad by mirid attack may die. Considerable distances and extensive
tree canopy deterioration may follow with long term effects on cocoa
yields. In Togo mirid damage to cocoa is serious and mirids continue to
pose a threat to future production. Treatment in Togo is done by
insecticidal fogging.
Estimation of Capsid Population
2.        Effective fogging programs require that their timing be related
to the stage of the insect life cycle and to the level of infestation.
During 1985/86, monitoring points were established by IRCC throughout the
Litim4 cocoa area, so that the development of the mirid population could be
assessed more accurately. Monitoring will continue throughout the project
implementation period and SRCC will use these data to determine the timing
of the control programs carried out under the project.
Insect Treatment
3.        Based on data collected over the past two years, the most
suitable fogging treatment period is between September and January when the
insect population starts to build up. Two spraying treatments are required
each treatment comprising double applications ("passages") at an interval
of 28 days. The first treatment covers the beginning of the population
increase while the second covers the main period of infestation. In the
first application, adults and larva are killed and in the second one, the
young insects, which by then have emerged from the eggs that were not
affected by the previous spraying.
4.        So as to reduce the incidence of mirid resistance to
insecticides, SRCC will vary the choice of insecticides in different years,
based upon IRCC advice.
Capsid Control under the Project
5.        The control program will be carried out over some 35,000 ha each
year by SRCC under the overall control of a Chief of Service. The area has
already been divided into five zones each under the responsibility of a
Chef de Zone. Fogging will be carried out accordi _ to the system
developed by SRCC by means of teams comprising one team leader, 10 swing
fog operators and four laborers, the latter for transportation of chemicals
and other treatment materials. A team of 10 operators will move through
the cocoa along a front 80 m in width completing 40 ha/day on average or



Annex 4-1
- 36 -                 Page 3 of 3
some 1,000 ha/month. Some 35 teams will therefore be necessary to complete
35,000 ha in the necessary 28 period. These teams should be equipped with
12 swing fogs (two spares) per team requiring 12 x 35 - 420 swing fogs.
6.        The teams working in blocks of 200 ha execute two operations: (i)
the pegging (marking) of the lines to be followed during treatment, this
being necessary due to the irregularity of planting lines and (ii) the
actual fogging treatment. Work commences at 0630 - 1700 hours. During the
hotter hours of the day upcurrents of air prevent satisfactory fogging.
The time not available for fogging is spent on pegging and clearing the
lines to allow easy access for the fogging teams.
7.        The progress and effectiveness of control operations is monitored
in several ways. The progress of fogging applications in terms of area
treated, location and quantity of materials used is recorded on special
forms by the Chefs de Zone, the team leaders and the store-keepers and
submitted promptly to the Chef de Service. Throughout the treatment
period, IRCC continues to record the insect population at their monitoring
points and to provide regular reports to SRCC. Finally, under the project,
Government will cause SRCC to contract an independent inspector annually to
vei.fy the levels of infestation prior to fogging treatment and to report
upon the organisation and effectiveness of the treatment.
WAPAA
July 1986



- 37 -                        Am4-2
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPLIED RESEARCH
I.   THE RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR COCOA AND COFFEE
General Description
1.        The major focus of the research program would continue to be the
direct support for the national cocoa and coffee production programs. This
would be achieved through both applied research on research stations and
farmers' fields, so as to cover the main agro-ecological conditions of the
production area and adaptive research (farm trials) to test and adjust
applied research findings under actual farm conditions. The former
research would tend to be long term in nature, the latter, short term.
2.        During implementation, particular attention would be paid to
research planning and evaluation with clear definition of research
priorities and objectives and careful costing of the major research
activities.
Research Program Goals
3.        The main objectives of research on cocoa and coffee would be to:
increase production per unit area; reduce the length of the non-productive
period during the immature phase of these crops; reduce unit operating
costs; all while maintaining the fertility of the soil and the environment.
4.        The balance between the types of research (applied or adaptive)
would be such as to optimise the production from existing productive areas
while ensuring that adequate attention is also given to longer term
research.
Research Program Components
5.        In order to accomplish the above goals, the project would provide
the following:
(a) housing at IRCC Tovg headquarters;
(b) equipment, laboratory materials, experiment materials, greenhouse
and vehicles for use at headquarter and substations;
(c) techni.al services from IRCC and training programs
(d) operating costs during a five year period.
Detailed Features
6.        The following paragraphs are a summary of the broad lines of
research to be followed under each major discipline and action. These are
to a considerable extent a continuation of existing research, but there
would be also much greater emphasis on short term adaptive research. The
number of research activities or experiments shown by years for each
program in Table 1 should be *..jarded as only indicative of the emphasis on
each program during the implementation of the proposed project. They



- 38 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 5
provide, however, some indicators against which the proposed project co&ld
be evaluated.
7.        Coffee.  New robusta clones would be introduced and tested under
local conditions for high yield and resistance to drought.  The main
components of the agronomy program woudl be mineral and water nutrition (as
with cocoa), intercropping with food crops, maintenance techniques
(herbicides and cover crops), and pruning systems. Pest and disease
research woudl be largely confined to the study and control of scolyte
berry borers. An important effort would be made in establishing a farm
trial program of clone testing and agronomic investigations, so that
techniques appropriate to farm conditions of management and maintenance can
be developed.
8.        Cocoa.  The genetic base of the cocoa breeding stock would be
widened by introduction of new clones. Comparative trials of hybrid
seedling families of these clones would be established. Selection would
continue with the objective of combining high yield resistance/tolerance to
drought, black pod and swollen shoot. Agronomic research would be focussed
upon the mineral and water nutrition of cooca with emphasis upon fertilizer
trials and the adoption of soil diagnostic techniques (based upon work done
in Ivory Coast) as a means of determining fertilizer requirements. Studies
of water nutrition would include the use of polymer gel substances for
improving the soil water retention capacity. The other major focus of
agronomic research would be farm trials for replanting technqiues for old
degraded cocoa, including clearing and food crop intercopping,
underplanting and hedge planting (haies fruitiAres). Research in the
fields of pathology and entomology would be mainly concerned with black pod
and mirid control. With black pod, much emphasis would be place upon farm
trials to adapt fungicides and techniques of application to local
conditions which vary in terms of rainfall, productivity of trees and
social factors.
Organization and Management
9.        IRCC, represented in Togo by the "Director of the Centre de
Recherches du Togo", would have overall responsibility through its contract
with the SRCC, for the implementation of the research programs. The
research program would be implemented by the IRCC staff. The program would
require some seven full time senior staff members of which five would be
nationals. The two expatriates would also assist IRCC with the monitoring
of the mirid and black pod control program.
Training
10.       A specific staff training program was drawn up at appraisal to
include technical matters, research extension linkages, and management of
research programs and research planning and programming. The training
program is based upon the areas of specialization required to meet program
goal.. and the existing skill gaps which were analysed at appraisal.



- 39 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 5
Linkages to Regional Centers
11.       The cocoa and coffee industries of Togo will always be relatively
small and the country will not be able to generate all the technology that
it requires. Maximum use should be made of technology generated elsewhere
that can be modified appropriately, particularly that from other IRCC
stations. A firm policy should be for IRCC Togo to develop the
agricultural science capacity to draw selectively on the world wide cocoa
and coffee research system. Funds are included in the project to allow
appropriate staff to make adequate overseas visits to other research
stations.
II. THE RESEARCH PROGRAM FOR FOOD CROPS
General Description and Research Goals
12.       The research program would support the proposed project food
crops program. Contrary to the Second Project, the major emphasis in the
research program would not be upon classic varietal and fertilizer trials.
These would be minimized to the extent that precise data on particular
techniques are needed for particular areas and new varietal introductions
are appropriate. Major emphasis would however be given to farming systems
research and to adaptive research in the form of on-farm trials. Improved
techniques would be tested in an on-farm situation within both the mixed
and monocultural cropping systems that exist. The techniques to be
introduced and tested are improved varieties, ploughing, timely and correct
sowing, fertilizer, weeding, pesticide use and soil conservation measures.
Summaries of research programs and proposed trials are in Table 1.
Research Program Components
13.       The project would finance the following:
(a) construction of field minor buildings/stores;
(b) equipement, vehicles, motorcylces, bicycles, exprimental
materials, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides for use in the research
program;
(c) technical services from IRAT and training programs;
(d) operating costs.
Organization and Management
14.       DRA/IRAT would be responsible through its contract with SRCC for
execution of the research programs. An expatriate program director would
be in charge of the research until the end of the third year when he would
be replaced by a suitable national.



40 -
Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 5
TOM
dffM, cOFF  AMD COODA DR~UMM  P'RWF1
APPIN RESEARM
Table 1
I. C(TEe AND COMXA TI  PWXGN4         1987    1988    1989    1990    1991   Total
A. At Research Stations                               in ba
1. Coffee
Introduction and ceparismn
of Claes                       1.0     2.0      1.0     2.0     -      6.0
Pringr Ntbods                  1.0     1.0     -        -       -      3.0
Mait6ance techniques
(Ieeding, fertilizer
applicatimi)                  -       -       -        2.0     -      2.0
Whter Muagr_t                  0.5     0.5     0.5      -       -      1.5
2. Cocoa
Introduction and Cmpwlsm
of clms                        2.0     0.5     1.0      1.0     1.0    5.5
Fertiizer AppLicatlm          1.0     -       0.5     -        -      1.5
Density                        1.0
B. O(4arm Trlals
1. Coffee
Priing cyces and nthods        5.4     5.4     5.4      5.4     5.4    5.4 a/
Fertilizer trials              5.4     5.4     5.4     5.4      5.4    5.4
aihntenamce techiques          5.4     5.4     5.4      5.4     5.4    5.4
2. Cocoa
Replanting Technques
Hedge Planting              10      10       10                     30
interplmntlng                5       5       5       55      55     15
RehabilitatioNs (ywn4       10      10       10                     30
oncoa trees)
The       mts ild be carried out annualy
on the am area (5.4 ha)



- 41 -
Annex 4-2
Page 5 of 5
n. POCCS P2RM
A. At Research Statiols                           Numbers of epertnts
1. Varieties
maize   1mdon
NRIPI                   3        3        3       3        3       3
Rice - sort cyce  (Dourado)   3           3       3        3        3       3
- mdIiucycle  (IRT 13)  3           3       3        3        3       3
Ground nut -  ihort cycle             3       3        3        3        3      3
-  edimt  cycl e  P 12)   3         3       3        3        3       3
Cciwpea- dhort cycle (55 days)   3          3        3        3        3      3
- medim  cycle (75 days)  3         3       3        3        3       3
Maniac-                           3        3       3        3        3       3
2. CXltural Practlees
-  SmAng date and method
Rice                    9        9       9        9        9       9
Grouxnumt               3        3       3        3        3       3
C"peas                  3        3       3        3        3       3
-  FeatiUzer applicatiln   6        6       6        6        6       6
- pla*dng                  3        3       3        3        3       3
- Harvestingand storage   3         3       3        3        3       3
B. O-Fann Trials
Dayes                               15       15      15       15       15      15
Alposso/Akebru                      15       15      15       15       15      15
Kpalime                             15       15      15       15       15     15
WAAL
October 1986



- 42 -                                      Annex 4-3
D           DWPFE AND OTDAVE[M    w
SROC MD MEMO    PR
Coffee       Potntial
Year        Sector       c       Ne           Se Pl                                       d
(ha)         f-7-
1975/84   1985/91
198        Abu                   bEneroffau               15       95       320    1000-150D
Alwbu               lofoID-E       e          13       90       250       1000
A%qoms-&d                  p                   7        130     400       1000
1988         TOeS-A                   p      a            40      1000     1680      1000
Ak 1oss-&d           ke-'haTode               12       665      300       900
1989       Akdk                             w             14       200      500    1000-1500
Dayes               Kpeco Sodo lodji          40       120      600       700
1990       Dayes                Atl*-Kpeto                12       300      100       900
Keatm-4anyhu               3       70       100       900
D3xu-Bossope               9       115      120       900
Kiouto              N1ime                     18       500      200       600
Ag4u                Akotuftu-Tizgbe            3       75       45        500
1991       Akqwmwos     H.-tN                             50        -        -         -
varlo  areas              15        -
Miy 1986



- 43 -
Annex 4-4
1WD 0FPEE tAM  OtY0 DEYmIr Paw=
VW    AD MM    Lff
Cbst per
Ildt    1987   1988     1989    1990    199     Total
CFA-
GOL DDW1IN
Car (QO                   4.2     -       1        -       -       -       1
Car(rech. Adv)            3.7     -       1        -       -       -        1
PickpUp   z)xwert)        2.3     1       -        -       1       -       2
Statim Wbgm (Director)    3.7     -       1        -       -       -       I
Cars                      2.3     2       3        -       2       -       7
Pick up                   2.5    29       4        4      29       -      62
t*08                      0.6    19       2       13       7       2
Irelo                     0.09  20       88       88       -       -      196
Tnudm (3.5t)             15.0     2       2        1       -       -       5
Tnik (em)                12.0     -       2        -       -       -       2
M*mump (3"h)              5.0     1       1        -       -       -       2
'btorpmp                  0.7     3       3        2       -       -       8
Generators                1.5     3       1        1       3       -       8
MaIOg                     0.2    50      50       50      50      50     250
Knwaks                    0.04  100     100      100     100     100    500
Atomdar                   0.1    50      50       50      25      25     200
lRAnms
Stati  Wagn (irector)    3.7      -       I        -       -       -       1
MDtos                     0.6     3       -        -       3       6       1
Projector (16 iM)         0.28    1       -        -       -       -       I
S1   Projetor             0.32    1       -        -       -       -       I
Fum reel                  0.07    1       -        -       -       -       1
Retroprojector            0.37    -       -        -       -       -       -
Typing Ma*dd             0.45    1        -        -       -       -       1
Pmf6o)Scbine              0.62    -       I        -       -       -       I
Stencil Machlr            0.02    -       I        -       -       -       I
RDtocopyH abne            1.80    -       I        -       -       -       I
Funiture for Library      0.25    1       -        -       -       -       1
Wakhqap equipwnt          0.03  176       -        -       -       -      176
C1T i
Statfio Wgom              3.7     1       1        -       -       1       3
Pick Up                   2.5     3       -        1       2       -       5
eo                        2.4     1       -        I       -   -           2
&,to                      0.6     3       -        1       2       -       6
Buli.Aoer D8L           120.0     1       -        -       -       -       1
Bulldeee D7G             75.0     2       -        -       -       -       2
Gera 11.5 km            50.0     4       1        -       -       -       5
Water Taner              20.0     1       -        -       -       -       1
Trailer                  40.0     1       -        -       -       -       I
Trk M      entam         20.0     -       I        -       -       -       1
ar                       30.0     -       I        -       -       -       I
hp Track                 18.0     2       1        3       1       -       7
Mixr                      2.5     2       1        -       -       -       3
Tractors                  -       -       -        -       -       -       -
L4aellmwcxis             5.0     -       -        -       _       _
IMPA
October 1986



- 44 -                                    Annex 4-5
IMD
M1D COFFE AND OJQM   1        1VEL   PRWMDrT
TRA1MI PlAN
Tralniit  Activities       Target Groups           Sources      Duration      PY
A.                                - Deputy Director   Ecterietr    9 mmnths    1987
Agricultural       (to be iden-
Opeatios           tified)
-Deputy Dlrector    (to be iden- 3 mths    1987
TrainIM           tified)
- Deputy Director
of Civil IWrks                  3 mnmths    1987
B. Extensio Service
Technical Training m the
agrymy of coffee, cooa        New extension        SPC           1 week       1987-1991
and foodcrops                 staff                (ftalime)
Bctuiorim Techiques           All extensirt        SPX           1 week       1987-1991
(caimmicatijim, orgizatimo  staff (adapt           (Kpalim6-
of nmeting etc)               to the level)        Fields)
Farming Systen                All exteio           SRZ           2 weeks      1987-1991
(Crop Budget, farm            staff (adapt         1CpaliM-
btdgt, costraints etc)        to the level)        Fields)
Bi-monthly refresher          Extension Agents    SRIX/1ROC/   1 day          1987-1991
course ae technical thwes                          IRAT
C. Farmers' Associations
GrowAp       n                AssociatiDos'        Specialist/  3 days        1987-1991
Repesetatives        SROC
Bodeeping                     Bookeepers           SECC          3 days       1987-1991
Measures                      Farmers              SROC          3 days       1987-1991
Grop Fonnation                SRE  Staff           SpiaUlst/  15 days         1987-1991
Cooperative
D. Other Services
Coixter                       SROC Staff           Contractor   n/a           1987-1991
Hey Equipmmnt                 Drivers              Specialist   n/a           1987-1991
Mei8kp                        Iw.halcs             Specialist   n/a           1987-1991
WAPAA
July 1986



TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SRCC: ORGANIZATION CHART
,,
MINISTRY or
RURAL
DEVELOPMRNT
SECTORS  mu ~ ~ DRECOR
==-UN  OF LAISO                                                                                                     WORL NANK30 0
,        .4
ADVISE   | i ND VA WAtID4  |    tRAT
GEEAL
||BUDGET             I||PRODuCTION                              PLANT |    FARMERS             FEEDE                       MA §5TERIAL
PROCUREMEtNT       AND         PERSONNE       ETENSION          ANO         PROTECTION      CROUPS          ROADS   |    B UILDINGSl       AND    |
ACCOUNtTS                                    LOGISTICS                                                                 W    ORKSHOPS
--UNE OF COWMAND
==-=UNE OF LIAISON                                                                                                         WORLD EANK-30404
10
HX



- 46 -
TOO                                                 Annex  4-7
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEEYELOPNT PROJECT                         Page  1 of 8
FARIERS CREDIT--fl HA COFFEE & 0.6 NA FOCODCRPS)
PROSRAN 0 ICUTTIN9S)
Year -1                                              Disbur.   Date   Interest Repayment Dulance    Days
8.5?
Cuttings (2300 8 Cfaf 12/unit)                         27600   31/7
Polybags (2300 6 Cfaf 7/unit)                          16100   31/7         648              45650         61  Year -1
ktercan                                                 1950   31/7
Guarantee Fund (22)                                     1550   30/6
47200
Year 1                                                                     3935              4629M       365  Year I
UrN  (30 kg I Cfaf 651kg)                               1950   30/9
Year 2                                                  1950
Fertilizers Fmodcrops:                                                     2212              52184        182  Year 2
Urea (30 kg 6 Cfaf 65/kg)                            1950   31/3
15/15115  M90 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                       5550   31/3         435              62196        30
Fertilizers Coffee:
PNH4 (85 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                            5525   30/4        2428              68155       153
Urea 180 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                            5200   30/9
Year 3                                                 18525               5075
Fertilizers Coffee:                                                        3741              75783       212  Year 3
PNH4 M5 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                             5525   30/4        3030              85050       153
Urea (120 kg 0 Cfaf 65/kg)                           7800   30/9
13325              6772
Total DisburseGnets                          81000
4064             95m80        182  Year 4
Repayants                    First                31/3       3407    20000    7944          193
3552             83351        182  Year 5
Second               31/3       2766    22000    64903        183
2884             67669        182  Year 6
Third               31/3        1994    24000    46553        183
2057             467          182  Year 7
Fourth               31/3       1005    27000    23594         183
1043             2459         182  Ye  0
Fifth                31/3               25642                  183
81000             3B186   118642                        Total
uZ:=Z::           =a=  m



- 47 -
T0BD                                               Annex  4-7
Page 2 of 8
TNIRD COFFEE AND CCDA DEVELOPIEIIT PRECT
FAR£ER CREDIT--- 1 HA CWFFEE & 0.6N 1" S          )
PROURAN C  PTS )
ear I                                                    Disbur.   Dte   Interet Repaymt  alOance    Days
9.52
Plants (t5m I Cfaf 41/tmit)                                67650   3117         961              67650        61
gme  (30 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                                   1950  3019
arwatee  Fund (22)                                          2100   30/9
71700
Vor 2
Plats (16 6  Cfaf 41/umit)                                  680    3113        299               70541        182  Year I
Frtilizer Fmodcrops
trea (30 kg 0 Cfaf 45/kg)                               1950   3113
15/15/15 (90 kg   Cfaf 65/kg)                           5550   31/3
Fertilizer Coffee
PM51  (95 Kg I Cfaf 65/l)                               5525   3014         616              98159        30  Year 2
Ime  (00 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                               5200   309         3348             93974        153     8
2ff5331
veaw 3
Fertilize  Coffe
P54 (B5 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                                5525   3014        5078             102847       212  Yea 3
utre  (120 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                             7800   30/9        4123             115724       153
13325
Total Di     mements                         110354
u32=zm=z
5080            119848        182  Year 4
Repaymnts                     First                3113       4344    23000   101927         183
4504            106271        182  Yev     5
Second              3113        3485    29000    81775        193
3614             95260        192  Year 6
Third                31/3       2424    32000    56874        183
2513             59297        182  Year 7
Fourth              3113        1057    37000    24811        183
1096             25968        182  Year 
Fifth               3113                26964                 193
45233   147964                       Total
ausa m_a



- 48 -
T060                                                 Annex  4-7
Pa ge 3 o f 8
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
FARNERS CREDIT--- U HA COCOA & 0.6 HA FDODCROPS)
Year -1                                                                 Interest Repayment Balance    Days
8.5Z
Polybags (2300 0 Cfaf 7/unit)                           16100   31/7         229              16100         61  Year -1
6uarantee Fund                                            670   30/9
16100
Year 1                                                                      1388              16329        365  Year I
Urea (30kg 0 Cfaf 65/kg)                                 1950   30/9
Year 2                                                   1950
Fertilizers Foodcrops:                                                       834              19667        182  Year 2
Urea (30kg 0 Cfaf 65/kg)                              1950   31/3
15/15/15 (90 kg 0 Cfaf 65/kg)                         5850   31/3        1206              28300        183
Year 3                                                   7800               2040
Fertilizers Foodcrops:                                                      1553              31456        212  Year 3
Urea (30kg 0 Cfaf 65/kg)                              1950   30/4        1246              34959        153     B
15/15/15 (90 kg I Cfaf 65/kg)                        5850   30/9
7800               1553
Total Disburseoents                            33650
zrnum
1782             42055        182  Year 4
Repayments                 First                31/3        1399    11000    32837         183
1459             34237        182  Year 5
Second               31/3       1052    11000    24696         183
1097             25748        182  Year 6
Third                31/3        675    11000    15845         183
700              16521       182  Year 7
Fourth               3113        279    10693       6529       183
33650              13375    43693                        Total
t::as ~       ,~azt       zuz                        33 :23:32*# U8



TtllR  COFFEE AM COCDA DEIILOPIEII PORECT
CMA  FLtO  AND IIIOE PF1DECTIODS FOR Ibl lEtl CUFFEE-ZOlE 11
0       1        2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9      10       11       12      13       14       15      16       17       £6      19       20
CJISN FLUN
Intm                        OOO'F
Dry Coffee at CFAF/lg          400      0.0      0.0     0.0    40.0   140.0   240.0   240.0   220.0   160.0   180.0   180.0   240.0   240.0   220.0   160.0   180.0   20.0   240.0   240.0   220.0   U10.0
Focdcrops                                 0      174      174       0        0       0        0        0       58     116      116      5B        0        0      58      116      116      58        0        0      56
Credit Received-plantation             47.2      2.0    19.5    13.3
-production                                        26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0
Total Inton                    000'f     47.2   176.0   192.5    79.3   166.0   266.0   266.0   246.0   244.0   322.0   322.0   324.0   266.0   246.0   244.0   322.0   322.0   324.0   266.0   246.0   24U.0
iterial Inputs
Cuttiop & Natercuns                    27.6      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.S      0.9     0.9      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.9      0.9
Polybags                               16.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.5      0 5     0.5      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.5      0.5
Fertilizers 2t)              000f      0.0      2.0    18.5    13.3    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    28.6    32.2    31.2    28.6    26.0    26.0    28.6    31.2    31.2    20.6    26.0    26.0    23.6
Total eaterial costs       OOOF      43.7      2.0    18.5    13.3    26.0    26.0    26.0    27.4    30.0    32.6    31.2    28.6    26.0    27.4    30.0    32.6    31.2    28.6    26.0    27.4    30.0
ulling 6 Sorting             OOO'F      0.0      0.0      0.0     2.4      8.4    14.4    14.4    13.2        9.6    10.9    10.8    14.4    14.4    13.2         9.6    10.8    10.8    14.4    14.4    13.2         9.6  *°
Credit Repaynts-plantation  OOOF                                         20.0    22.0    24.0    27.0    25.6
-production                                               28.1    26.1    28.1    29.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1    28.1
Total ExpWses              OOO F     43.7      2.0    18.5    15.7    82.5    90.5    92.5    95.7    93.3    72.5    70.1    71.1    68.5    68.7    67.7    71.5    70.1    71.1    68.5    68.7    67.7
Not tcah Incse                DOOOF       3.5   t74.0   114.0    63.6    3L5    175.5   173.5   150.3   150.7   250.5   251.9   252.9   197.5   177.3   176.3   250.5   251.9   252.9   197.5   177.3   176.3
Coffe  6 Intercrop Labour (1) enday        22      282      130      67       93      116     116      112      120     145      145      134     116      112      120     145      145      134     116      £t2     120
lUt tcsh Incoue Per Randay     CFAF       159      617    1338      949      87B    1513    1496    1342    1255    1728    1737    1987    1703    1583    1469    1728    1737    1987              703    1583    1469
Credit repasyt ns   of Income                                                 m 2      9       202      22      222       92       92      92      1i1      11i     122       92       92      92      1it      11     12Z
(1  locludes foodcrops iputs for iatereripping as credit covers fertilizer reuareets for both.
01,
-.>



TOOe
1t3lO FFEF mm    a   cm   5EI1T   PllCI
CISH FLU II IIC t  PK OECtOIU  FOR Ibc IE  C*U-lUE III
0       1        2       3        4       5                         a 7  8  9       10      11       12      13       II      15       1       17      le      19      20
JIUNFUII                             --    ----    -----                                                   --                                                _ -
locoos                      000F
Dry Coffee at CFMFIk           400     0.0      0.0      0.0    90.0   220.0   30.0   490.0 4U0.0   360.0   390.0   330.0   430.0   490.0   430.0   360.0   390.0   380.0   480.0   4.0   4e0.0   360.0
Fudcrops                                  0     174      174       0        0       0       0        0       53     116      116      s        0        0      se      116      11U6     s        0        0      58
Credit llocetie"d atattui             47.2      2.0    18.5    23.3
-WCdott,                                          26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    2L0    26.0    260    26.0    26.0    2IL.
TOtal 1Km                     000'F     47.2   176.0   192.5   119.3   246.0   396.0   506.0   506    444.0   522.0   522.0 5.4.0   5060   506.0  044.0   522.0   5.0   564.0  S56                       SL5     444.0
Usarlal inputs
Cuttings It Natorcos                   27.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.9      0.9     0.9      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.9     21.9     0.9     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.9     0.
Polyp                                  W6.1     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.5     0.5      0.0      .O      0.O     05      4.5      0.5     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.      0.s
Fortilizer  1)              OtO'F        0      3.7      9.6      .0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    29.2    32.4    32.4    29.2    26.0    26.0    29.2    32.4    32.4    29.2    2.0    26.              29.2
Total  tieri!l costs      OO'F       43.7     3.7      9.6     0.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    27.4    30.6    33.8    32.4    29.2    26.0    27.4    30.6    33.9    32.4    29.2    26.0    27.4    3.6
3011g t Sorting             OO0F        0.O     0.0      0.O     4.8    13.2    21.6    2.3    28.8    21.6    22.9    22.8    23.8    23.8    23.            21.6    22.3    22.0    23.3    29.3    2L.       21.6A
Credit  opayeomts-plaotat,in  OtO'F                                      20.0    22.0    24.0    27.0    25.6                                                                                                          u
-lredctitI                                              29.1    2B.1    23.1    23.2    29.1    23L.    2L8         23.1   2a.1    M1.1    23L.    23.1    23.1    23.1    29.1    29.1    23.
___ ---_______________
Total upon"               0F        43.7      3.7      9.6     4.8    37.3    97.7   206.9   11.A   106.0    84.7    83.3    36.1    32.9    33    80.3    84.7    83.3 35              t    3.       34.3     3.3
rat cub Incs.                 OOO'F      3.5   172.2  123.0   214.5   159.7   23.3   3s9.1   394.7   333.0   437.3   437    477.9   423.1   421.7   367    437.3   4337    477.9   423.1   421.7   3a7
Coffee I Ietorcrop Lbow  41)  aday        22      282     130       21      112     244      272     172      16      11       191     192     172      172     167      191     191      191     12       172     168
UIt csub luou  Per  dhay      CFF        159      621    1407    5454    1417    2002    2320    2295    2012    2290    2297    2502    2460    2452    2178    2290    2297    2502    2460    252    2165
Credit repaymt as S of lIcene                                               20S      131     10       III      121      51      5S       51     6a        63      6        5S      5S       53      a        at      6t
11) tncl uln fodrop  iptts for intsrcroppilg as credit cown  fertilizer requimnests for kot.
o Cs



YMm  wwit An CDO uEva~u  PROACT
cASm3 FLU  MS II0E AmIC  CTIS - Ib Co=A NEM  FtK1I
0       1        2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9      10       it       12      13       14       is      16       17       18      19       20
CMU FtU
I"r Coco at CF4IFt             360    72.0    72.0    90.0    SS.0   103.5    90.0    9.5  t17.0  t12.5    I2.5   tt7.0  t13.5    44.0    tL0    1.5   t62.0    16.5   t3.0   1n.5   207.e   207.0
Credit Keaved                OOO'F     16.1      2.0      7.8     7.8
Total lacos                              0B.1    74.0    97.8   106.8   103.5    90.0    94.3   117.0   121.5   112.5   117.0   139.5    14.0   135.0   139.5   162.0   1665    18.0    1S35   207.0   207.0
Obterial isputs
Pods I latereas                         0.7      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.7      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.7     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.7      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.4
Polybap                      000'F      1.4      0.1      0.0     0.0      1.4      0.1     0.0      0.0      3.4     0.1      0.0      0.0     1.4      0.1     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Fertiliers                   OOOF       0.0      3.7      2.0     2.0      2.0      5.6     3.9      3.9      3.9     7.6      5.9     5.9      5.9      9.5      7.8     7.8      7.8      7.8     7.8      7.8      7.n
Total estertal costs       000'F      2.1      4.2      2.3     2.3      4.1      6.1     4.3      4.3      6.0     8.l      6.2      6.2     8.0    10.0      82       8.2      82      9.2      B.2      8.2     8.2   a
Credit Rapaysts              OOO'F                                        11.0    11.0    11.0    10.7
2.1     4.2      2.3      2.3    15.1    17.1    15.3    15.0        6.0      B.1     6.2      6.2      8.0    10.0      8.2     8.2      8        8.2     8.2      9.2      8.2
llt cas  I[cOW                CFF       BSS53   69771      490  1O4490   O403   72871   79240  102047  115453  IO421  110790   135290  136003  124971   31340  153340   IS3    118140 Is34 to 1910   110
Coffee I otrcrqp LBwr 411 )say             4B       98      54       56       59      112      66       70      71      126       80      83       89      141      95       99      100      102     103      3C5     106
llt cash Iae  Per landay                 183O      713    1785    1874    105         651    1210    1463    1626       826    1381    1606    1532        B86    1316    1554    1579    1769    1304    IB    1876
Credit repayt a u  of Incecs                                                  11     122      122      9n
O l



Aanex 4-7
- 52 -                                Page 7 of 8
T.
THIRD C8FFEE A-D CD IEWIEUT  PROJECT
CAIIIIE  TISMIE K  REDIT BhRiCDLE
CameL OF PIOBECT CREOIT UNIT faith loans payeots)
(Current CFAF Killion%)
1986      1987    19E     1989    1990    1991    1992              IS93 19  995    1994
DUTFLW
Credit To Faroers:
Coffee - 2nd Projett         127.00  110.60   49.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Coffte - 3rd ProJKt           32.66   90.09  134.69  165.82  169.29  123.83   90.06   39.96    0.00    0.00    0,00
Cocoa - 3rd Projet             0.00    1.12    1.96    2.89    9.45   14.52    0.21    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
MeTotal                   159.66  201.81   185.64  168.70   178.73  138.35   90.27   40.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
flflS.nn   -s- -a-- ---------s n          sr    s    sfls        s  aftStsun
ProJet Credit Unit:
Investets                      4.00   18.71   10.84    1.54    6.54    5.20    1.94    8.24    6.55    2.44   10.37
Perswnl                       46.60   48.38   52.25   56.42   60.92   65.80   71.07   76.75   82.89   89.52   96.69
Operating costs               23.19   19.00   20.35   21.83   23.43   24.61   25.59   26.61   27.68   28.78   29.94
S/TotaI                   73.79   86.09   83.44   79.78   90.88   95.61   98.59   111.60  117.12  120.75  137.00
R"ayent Of Borrovinags
Principal on Lon III (11                                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
S/Tero Fertilizer To PAT  (2)   0.00  219.44  273.24  334.52  392.34  456.96  517.79  586.92  660.69  79.83  824.11
Principal on Loan 11           0.00    0.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00  151.00
Principal and int. on Loan I   0.00  684.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
S/Total                    0.00  S04.14  424.24  405.52  543.34  607.96  668.79  737.92  811.69  890.83  975.11
Total OUTFLOW            233.45  1192.04  693.33  734.01  812.95  841.92  857.U5  889.61  M.82  1011.58  1112.11
1*1
SOvernnt Loa 11 (31          200.79  110.60   4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Sovwneat Loun 111  (41         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
huarantee Fund                 3.47    4.55    4.65    6.47    7.37    2.35    2.40    2.46
9UndrY llco                   65.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30
Farers' Ropaymnnts 151
Coffee - 2nd Project         143.60  155.61  192.52  269.67  271.35  243.06   I5.44  140.03   69.91   II.90    0.00
Coffee - 3rd Project           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.50   48.52   87.83  144.13  203.80  198.38  160.89
Coco - 2nd Project             3.40    9.90   14.60    9.80   13.40    9.90    5.75    2.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
Cocoa - 3rd ProjKt                0       0       0        0    0.17    0.36    0.58    1.34    2.72    2.70    2.50
Surante Fund ACR               2.63    2.63    2.93    3.22    3.22
OWAT's Contribution           11.62   24.24   26.29   29.81   28.17   25.06   18.17   15.30   11.35    6.49    3.62
Coffee - Fertiliter (ISTern)    50.20   85.32  163.05  199.63  276.70  322.27  505.62  573.13  645.17  722.44  804.75
S/Total                  211.45  277.70  39S.3S  512.12  608.51  649.17  813.3B  876.37  932.95  941.91  971.76
Total I                  4B1.01  3".14  454.34  519.89  617.17  652.81  817.0   880.13  934.25  943.21  973.06
Opwning 8dlae                 501.2  74B.76  -49.13  -28B.12 -502.24 -69B.01  -887.11 -927.69 -937.17 -931.73 -1000.11
ht CUFLOM Annua              247.56 -17S.90 -23B.9  -214.12 -195.77  -189.10  -40.57   -9.48    5.43  -68.37 -139.05
llt COWLEN Cuuldlatv         748.76  -49.13 -288.12 -502.24  -699.01 487.11  -n7.6  -937.17 -31.73 -1000.11 -1139.16
(11  eused interest free repayable over 17 yes including 6 years grae
12) Provided in kind by OPAT
(3) RWoresents finanig of remaining Credit trantch  for plantation under 2nd ProJet
(41 Cons cost of all plantation credit under 3rd proJect ad UCP opea ting cuts during 6 years
151  uMptions on rcory rates Coffees for current loans, 555 in 1967, 601 in 1918, end 701 threafter;
redutioo of arrrs, 101 in 1987, 18 in 198, and 201 threafter.
Cocoa 10 In 1987, 30 in 19, 50S in IM, ad 901 thwreafter.



- 53 -
Annex 4-7
TMl                                        Page 8 of 8
THIRD CFFEE mm1 CDCO eEwneT P600ECt
CAIUE MIIlEiE DE CIIEDIT WICOLE
CA ONF   P ROJPEC CREDIT UNII? titiIot lons paymt)
(Carrent CFAF 0ltlionst
196      1967    1958    ISSS    199      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
OUTFLOW
.........
Credit lo Farmrsn
Coffee - 2nd Project         121.00   110.60   49.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Coffe - 3rd Project           32.66   90.09  134.69  165.2  1It.2S  123.83   90.06   39.96    0.00    0.00    0.00
Cocoa - 3rd Project            0.00    1.12    1.96    2.89    9.45   14.52    0.21    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
Silotal                   159.66  201.81  18b.64  I6S.70  171.73  138.35   90.27   40.09    0.00    0.00    0.00
Project Credit Unit:
Investmnts                     4.00   10.71   10.84    1.54    6.54    5.20    1.94    8.24    6.55    2.44   10.37
Personnl                      46.60   48.38   52.25   56.42   60.92   65.80   71.07   76.75   82.89   89.52   96.69
Operating costs               23.19   19.00   20.35   21.83   23.43   24.61   25.59   26.61   27.68   26.78   29.9
S/Total                   73.79   86.09   83.44   79.17   90.88   95.61   98.59  111.60  117.12  120.75  137.00
Repaymnt Of Borroun:st
Principal on Loa Illt  (I                                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
8/Tero Fertilizer To WPAT  (2)   0.00  219.44  273.24  334.52  392.34  456.96  517.79  586.92  660.69  739.83  824.11
Principal on Loan 11           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Principal and lnt. on Loan I   0.00    0.0      0.00    0.00    0.0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
S/Total                    0.00  219.44  273.24  334.52  32.34  456.96  517.79  586.92  660.69  739S83  824.11
Total OUTFLOt            233.45  507.34  542.33  583.01  661.95  690.92  706.65  739.61  777.82  860.58  961.11
INFLOW
Soveronent Loan 11 (3        200.79  110.60   49.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
sbvrmnt Lo  III 14)            0.00    0.0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    o.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Suarantee Fund                 3.47    4.55    4.65    6.47    7.37    2.35    2.40    2.46
Sundry Intcoeo                65.30    1.30    1.3t    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30
Farmers' Raymnts tS)
Coffee - 2nd Project         143.60  155.61  192.52  269.67  271.35  243.06  195.44  140.03   69.91   II.S         0.00
Coffee - 3rd Project           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.50   48.52   67.83  144.t3  203.80  198.38  160.89
Cocoa - 2Wd Project            3.40    9.90   14.60    9.80   13.40    9.90    5.75    2.45    0.00    0.00    0.00
Cocoa - 3rd Project               0       0        0       0    0.17    0.36    0.5S    1.34    2.72    2.70    2.50
Suarantee Fund MCIA            2.63    2.63    2.93    3.22    3.22
OPAT's Contrihotion           11.62   24.24   26.29   29.81   28.17   25.06   18.17   15.30   11.35    6.49    3.62
Coffn - Fertilizer 1S/lerol    50.20   85.32  163.05  199.63  276.70   22.27  505.62  573.13  645.17  722.44  804.75
S/Total                  211.45  277.70  399.39  512.12  608.51  644.17  813.38  876.37  932.95  941.91  971.76
Total INFLW              481.01  3S4.14  454.34  519."   617.17  652.81  817.08  8S0.13  934.25  943.21   973.06
Opening blace                 501.2  748.76  635.57  547.58  484.46  4139.69  401.59  512.01  653.53  809.97  892.59
lMt CA8"III Annual           247.56  -113.20  -67.99   t3.12   -44.77  -38.10   110.43  l4.32  156.43   82.63   11.95
l4t CAWrFLOW Cuulative       748.76  63.57  547.58  484.46  439.69   01.59  512.01  653.53  80.97  892.59  904.54
11)  ssnud intennt free repayable over 17 yees including 6 years gracu
12) Provided io kind by OPAT
(31 RWrsets finncing of ratsinin  Credit trnchn for plantation under 2nd Project
(41 Covrs cost of all plantatios credit nader 3rd projet and UCP operating ceots during 6 years
l5) khsuptions on recowr  retest Coffeni for carreat loans, 55? in MS87, 60 in 1998, and      thereafter;
reduction of arrears, 10 in 1997, 1S  in 1998, and 20 thereafter.
Cocoa IU ti 1997, 30S in 1988, 50S in 19, and 90? thereafter.
WAPAA
October 1986



-54.
ir                                                                   4s~    -8
~~~~~~~~~~~~Peg   I  7 3
MM 1 1wuu  un    FINWI IA A
umit ii omup mis us ninm   Ii..               inaiT
Wul Fiin  ta  urn  MiMi u"im UrL   ifmio  tm. fulb  ta   vIN  ta. PUlP  L0t  Fula  toA
--Usx Uftb}                   1 -0tfCM ml----~  ----- ----- ------*  VA ON)--------------------
%iMcIs                  0.11    0.06    0.03   37.56   28.1?    9.39                                                               0.03    0.03                    t0.4     0.03
Epwdt                   0.30    0.22    0.0?  104.39   10.29   26.10              0.22    0.01                                                                      0.2    9.01
Pw 8                    0.6?    0.00    0.6   303.74    0.00  303.14                                               0.00    0.87                                     0.00    0.N
Pistito                 3.40    3.20    0.20 1169.76 ti183    it.3                                                 3.20    0.20                                     3.20    0.20
00Watla  Cuts           0.24    0.23    0.01   05.36   00.26    5.12              0.23    0.01                                                                      0.23    0.02
s-tow               4.9     33    W.9  t20.a3   05.09  415.74
EWitt                   0.10    0.09    0.0    34.98   32.6    2.10                                                                0.09    0.01                     0.09    3.01
fqtzies                 0.26    0.26    0.00   9.46   91.46    0.00                                                                0.26    0.00                     0.26    0.00
hfrt*t              0.36    0.36    0.01  12.44  124,34    2.10
so   o,M        a        0.43    0.17    0.20  152.23   60.45   90.B                                                                0.27    0.21                     0.11    0.20
ftlKWilINI  li
fqsIou.t                0.04    0.00    0.02   27.%    20.97    .99                                                                0.0     0.02                     .0      0.02
f.r_l                   0,8.   0.03    0.38  134.66    0.00   34.16                               0.00    0.3S                                                      0.00    0.30
owstiq cuts             0.29    0.26    0.13  20.34 I    5.24   45.10                             0.16    0.03    0.00    0.10                                      e.26    0.o3
Wtoth)              0.,5    0.22    0.53  2626   76.21  186.75
1of  fktwi*.            I.4C    1.41    0.00  44.34  44.34    0.00                                1.47    0.0                                                       1.41    0.00
am  £tieIsst            0.0     0.09    0.00   33.24   33.24    0.00                              0.09    0.00                                                      .09    0.00
Wrf  frtotl             0,.5    0.5    0.0   296,35  296.35    0.00                              0.5    0.00                                                      0.5    0.00
s-t           '     2.36    2.36    0.00   W5.93  825.93    0.00
fhilihp                 0.06    0.02    0.03   19.78    7.91   11.07                                              0.02    0.03                                     8.02    0.03
%imlas                  0.20    0.03    0.25   98.27   22.00   66.47                                                               0.03    0.25                     0.03    0.25
pigwt                   0.09    0.06    0.02   30.20   22.65    7,55                                                               0.06    0.02                    0.06    0.02
tp w                    0.57    0.00    0.57  190.15    0.00  196.15                                              0.00    0.57                                      0.0     0.57
lrntiq Cuts            2.22    0.9    2.43 sM.46  m.19  500.27                                                   0.3S    0.3'    0."      0.33    0.00    0.93    0.19    I.43
tm*imCl "do"            0.57    0,57    0.00  I98.00  290.0      0.00                                             0.57    0.09                                     0.57    0.00
-taot               3.18    3.46    2.30  322.9%  517.65  004.31



- 55 -
*35 448
9 P   ilo  3
Slide1                   0.t    c.t3    0a    24         to0     &1.                                                               L       0.02                    0.15    0.02
(t5pmt                  0.04    0.0l    0.01   52.73    9.5s    3.86                                                               0.03                o.0i00               0.05
ftrA1                   0.41    LO       0.41  4L3174    0L.   u42.74             0.0     0.45                                                                     0.00   L04
ort5tlC  bta            0.42    0.26    0.12  147.15    4.317   432                                               0.S0      .12                                     0.s     0.12
JulIus houlu            0.36    0.36    0.00  124.46  124.46    CO                                                                                 0CM     0.O      L.A     0.0
tst"                1.29   0.n3        6  04."   54.4   591L
6651                    3.01    2.U      0.L  ISS0.50  719.6   26.3                                               5.03   0L61    0.42    0.54                       226    0.t6
aeIemm                  0.07    0.05    0.02   24.29   51.21    6.0                                                                0.O5    0.02                     0.OS    0.02
t"d                     0.15    0.00    0.15  X15.50    0.00  265.50                      0.00.15                                                                   P.      0.15
06watI  bit.            3.65    3.35    0.26 1252.5  5572.43   90.50                                              3.       0.36                                     3.35    0.26
to-tow              7.43    3.46    I.71 201.15 50.47  620.0
NM      JflhSOlll?
elS4u                   0.54    0.50    0.0    4.99   5.99   52.00                                                                 0.50    0.03                    0.50    0.0
f4dWt                   0.      0.14    0.05   46.       9.03    6.61                                                              04    0.15.1                    0.14    0.
0rwmm.                  0.2     0.40    0.77  269.1      0.00  26.9.5            0.O      0.7                                                                      LO0   0L7
Ilwatiq c               0.96    04       0.52  337.65   54.04   5S7                                               0.44    0.LE                                     0."    0.5
tse.)cd bo      r       0.07    0.7    0.0O       59   23.S      L.OO                                            0L5    0.0o    0.5     0o         06      0.0     0.07    Coe0
St   a i "to            025    0.20    0.15   57.16   70.29   1.57                                                0.26    0.5                                      0.2O    0O.
tSfta               3.51    1.S    8.4  15343  613.74  I49.Je
Fs1U
wlltp                   0.59    0.01    0.55   464         S.4   39.05                                            0.00    0.5                                      0.1      0.5
mclu                    LOU     0.60    0.20   111.45  215o.   7L36                                               0.0     0.3    0.21    0.0                       0.60    0.
W odt                   0.17    0.13    0.4    5.52   439    U.6                                                                   0.13    0.LO                    0.53    0.LO
* 0 A                     2.46    0.C0    2.46  M.1       00   2.1                                                  0.0     2.66                                     0.00   L26
Wt"   gosh              1.17    0.15      .22  407.41  332.32    14                                                                0.95    0.22                    05 0f2O
.-hcu  butu#            0.20    0.20    0.0e o   0.4    74       0.00                                             0.20   .L                                        0.20    0.0
all-tw              L.5     5.9     3.23 5054.56  60.35  5521.63
0.02    0.02    0.05 OUI                                6.45    2.54.02S LO  L Mt    0.05                                                                         0.0     0.01
*tukd  kOia.            0.00    0.4  o           LO    SLO3    0.40                                                 4      .00                                     o.49    0.00
burumel                0o.0    0.00    0.10   365U    0.00   36                                                   0.00    0.1                                      0.o    0.50
'vattq CUt.             0.07    0.00    0.0o   22.19  59.00       .1                                              0.00    0.05                                     0.06    0.05
Tr"" cugbet             0.15    0.15    0.00   39.61   IL6    30.911                                              LOS    0.06                                      0.15    CS0
8Ftow               0O.     0.22    0.16 139.u 5    7L62   42LS
MI:).                   0.44    0.03    0.1   14.00   50.5    3.0                                                                  0.3    0.0o                     0.03    0.0
OtrumI                  0.57    0.00    0.57   3.97    0.0 e    s.?"              0.0     0.1?                                                                     0.00    L.?
llwratsuo beub          0.43    0.02    0.05   11.02    L.21    2                                                 0.02    0.05                                     0.02    0.01
t-tow               0.10    0.15    0.1t   63.9    5.0   65.



a ~      tn                              3  R |gt    ili
w -°'g22....2.S°
0     ".4I      -     -S0         w        _-
lI                                I
i      -
f t  .       o@ 0 0 0      0 0 0 0 0 0
I       
i                               o.o
0o     '°. .O-°o



T060
THIRD COFFEE  N  COCOA DEVELOPNT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
WS KILLION
IDA FY MD         ESTIMATES         CUMULATIVE        STANDARD
YEAR    JRTERS              BY             DISBURSEMENTS     DISBURSEMENTS
ENDING            QUARTERS
__       -- - -- -       -- -- --          -- -- - -- -      --------- __    ___ -
:987          3             0.00               0.00              0.00
4              0.00              0.00              0.00                      TOGO 3RD COFFEE/COCOA DEV. PROJECT
1988          1              1.79              1.79              0.00               18-                                                                                    13 DN
2              0.98              2.77              1.79               17                                                                                _
3              0.99              3.76              2.77
4              1.04              4.80              3.76               t6
16 
1989          1              0.75              5.55              4.65               14
2              0.89              6.44              5.55               13 -
3              0.89              7.34              6.44               12 -
4              0.90              8.23              7.34               ,1
-j  10
1990                         0.89              9.13              8.23               t
2              0.90             10.02              9.13      j         9
3              0.89             10.92             10.02      "         8
4             0.81              11.72             10.92                7 
1991          1              0.81             12.53             11.72                6
2              0.81             13.34             12.53                5
3              0.81             14.14             13.34                4
4              0.63             14.77             14.14                3-
2-
1992          1             0.63              15.39             14.77                1
2              0.54             15.93             15.39
3              0.54             16.47             15.93                0          1
4             0.45              16.92             16.47                 1987  1988            190            1990          1991          i t            1093
1993          1              0.45             17.36             16.92                                 3   CUM.DOSB.                          SIR.DIS8.
2              0.54             17.90             17.36
3                                                 17.63
4                                                 17.90



- 58 -                                             Annex 4-10
TASl
THIRD COFFEE AID COCOA DEWLOPIIENT PROJECT
COfFEE AND COCO PROUTION WC   TIStTES
COFFEE PRODUCTION 11TONS
Robusta       Ne"             Forgone       Total         Projct
planted     Robtsta           Niausli   national        increetal
Year        Niaouli    under 111    undr III          production   production      prouction
1986          4,800          5,500              0               0         10,300              0
1907          4,675          6,143              0             101         10,717           1101)
1988          4,250          7,277              0             203         11,324           (203)
1M            3,875          8,268            231            3M5          12,059            (84)
1990          3,500          8,806            902             439         12,769            443
1991          ',125          8,925          2,025             563         l3,512          1,462
1992          2,750          8,728          3,508             563         14,423          2,945
1993          2,375          8,431          5,064             Sb3         15,309          4,503
1994          2,000          8,500          6,074             563         16,019          5,511
1995          2,000          8,592          6,422             5b3         16,651          6,059
1996          2,000          8,327          6,613             563         16,377          6,050
1997          2,000          8,164          6,504             S63         16,105          5,941
1998          2,000          7,925          6,421             563         15,783          5,858
1t9           2,000          7,664          6,77t8              3         15,879          6,215
2000          2,000          7,660          6,773             563         15,870          6,210
2001          2,000          7,664          6,819             563         15,920          6,256
2002          2,000          7,688          6,480             563         15,605          5,917
2003          2,000          7,492          6,374             563         15,305          5,813
20            2,000          7,271          6,293             563         15,001          5,730
2005          2,000          7,017          6,631             563         15,085          6,068
2006          2,000          7,015          6,579             563         15,031          6,016
2007          2,000          7,030          6,615             563         15,082          6,052
2008          2,000          7,073          6,276             563         14,786          5,713
2009          2,000          6,907          6,181             563         14,525          5,618
2010          2,000          6,732          6,092             563         14,261          5,529
2011          2,000          6,508          6,235             563         14,180          5,672
COCOA PRODUCTION ITOII)
Existing          1No                         Forgone          Total         Project
production      plnting    Rehabilitation   production        national      incremental
under fi1      under III  old  ocKoa tres  production       production
1986          5,500              0             83             20           5,563             63
1987          5,500              0            715             50           6,165            66
1988          5,500             14          1,430             90           6,054          1,354
1989          5,500             43          2,100            220           7,423          1,923
1990          5,500            107          2,6S0            400           7,857          2,357
1991          5,500            261          3,200            400           8,561          3,061
1992          5,500            521          3,750            400          9,371           3,871
1993          5,500            800          4,300            400          10,200          4,700
1994          5,500          1,103          4,850            400          11,053          5,553
1995          5,500          1,292           ,l50            400          11,242          5,742
1996          5,500          1,465          5,400            400          11,965          6,465
1997-2011          5,500          1,520          5,950            400          12,570          7,070
WAPMA
July 1986



- 59 -
TOGO                            Annex 4-11
Page 1 of 3
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRODUtCERS' INCENTIVES ANALYSIS
A.  COFFEE
1.        Returns per ha and per manday at various producer prices are
estimated using the following assumptions:
a)   The traditional tecbnology represents the low risk, low
input practice. Improved planting material (Robusta) would
be planted witb the recommended fertilizer application
during the establishment period. After the third year, some
weeding would take place, but pruning and fertilizer are not
applied.
b)   The improved technology represents the situation where
improved planting materials and the recommended fertilizer
doses would be utilized during the establishment period.
During the production period, regular weeding (at least four
times a year), application of fertilizer (400 kg/ha for both
zones), and pruning would be carried out by the farmers.
2.        Detailed analysis is in the project file and the results are
summarized on the following page (Table 1). At the present producer price
of CFAF 400 per kg, the ratio between the inerelmental income and
incremental cost using an intensive technology is about 2 to I in Zone II
and 4 to I in Zone III sufficient to cover risks incurred. At higber
price, the ratio improves and at CFAF 525 per kg, the ratio is about 3 to I
in Zone II and 5 to 1 in Zone III, highly attractive for farmers moving to
a higher tecbnology.
B.     COCOA
3.        As shown in Table 2, a plantation yielding over 300 kg per ha (of
which there may be about 30% of all areas under cocoa) may be able to save
at least 150 kg with blackpod treatment. The cost per ha of treatment is
estilmated at CFAF 32,800 without subsidies and including labour charges
( 24 mandays at CFAF 575 per day), and CFAF 23,300 if sprayers and
chemicals are subsidized at 50X. At the present producer price (CFAP 360
per kg), proprietors holding high yield potential plantations with about
300 kg per ha would be able to pay for the treatment as the incremental
gains about CFAF 49,500 would outweigh the cost of treatment at a ratio
about 2 to 1 at the present subsidized level. For the majority of farmers
holding plantations with average yields less than 300 kg per ha, on which
100 kg per ha might be saved through blackpod control, the cost of
treatment would be prohibitive at the present price level. However, witb
higher producer prices, more farmers holding lower productive plantations
would have incentive to apply blackpod control. t.nder the current
sharecropping arrangements, in wbich sharecroppers traditionally receive
the equivalent of about CFAF 1,500 per charge or CFAF 46 per kg of cocoa
pods, a sbarecropper on the most productive plantation would have no
incentive to apply the treatment as the returns to labour would be well
below the opportunity cost of labour. A change in the current
sharecropping arrangement would be necessary for sharecroppers to apply
blackpod treatment.



T060
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPfEhT PROAECT
SIMNARY OF RETURMS UNDER INPROVED AND TRADITIONAL CULTIVATION PRACTICE
Table I
COF F E E                                                        ZONE II                                                           IONE III
lsproved          Traditional        Increment  Dy/Dc a/         Improved          Traditional        Increment  Dy/Dc a/
Average yields (kg/hal                  414.3              188.1             226.2                        845.2             258.3              586.9
Labour (uanday)                         104.6               79.0              25.6                        145.9              89.8               56.1
NPV of labour cost (CFAF'OOO)           496.5              410.7               95.8                      646.4              459.4              186.9
NPv of cash cost (CFAF'OOO)             244.0              89.0               155.0                      311.0              105.6              205.3
NPV of gross value (CFAF'OOO)
at price           CFAF/kg
365.0            1030.9              531.6              499.1      2.1             2047.9             767.0             1280.9      3.3
400.0            1129.6              582.6              547.0      2.3             2244.3             840.6             1403.7      3.6
450.0            1270.B              655.4              615.4      2.6            2524.9              945.6             1579.2      4.0
525.0            1482.6              764.7              717.9      3.0             2945.7            1103.3             1842.4      4.7
a/ lcremotal gross value J Incresatal cost including labour
00 
01
4 _



- 61 -
Annex 4-11
T0OS                                                    Page  3 of  3
THIRD COFfEE AND CocoA DEYELOP~ENT PMJECT
RETUNS tO LABOUR AT VARIOUS PRODUCER PRICES
COCOA
Table 2
-----                                              Traditional             lith blackpod treateent
Potential Yield (kg/ha)                                                200            450            630
ktual yield (it/hal                                     125            155            300            420
Bross Revenue/he
At predutcer prices of CFAF/kg
360                                               45,000         72,000         162,000       226,800
375                                               46,975         75,000        168,750        236,250
425                                               53,125         85,000        191,250        247,150
500                                               62,500         100,000       225,000        315,000
Labor Requireunts
Haintenance                                           7             IS             20             25
Spraying and hygiene                                  0              16            16             16
Hrvestinq, dryinq etc.                               13             20             27             34
Total                              20             51             63             75
Cost of fungicides and sprayers (no subsidy)                        19,000         19,000         19,000
Returns per ha (incl. labor at CFAF 571 per day)
360                                               33,500         23,675        106,775        164,675
375                                               35,375         26,675        113,525        174,125
425                                               41,625         36,675        136,025        205,625
SO0                                               51,000         51,675        169,775        252,875
Returns per anday fors
Omner eanagers at producer prite CFAF/kg
360                                               2,250          1,039          2,270          2,1
375                                               2,344          1,OS8          2,377          2,897
425                                               2,656          1,294          2,734          3,317
500                                               3,125          1,588          3,270          3,947
sharecroppers at CFAF/charge (32kg)
1,500                                               293           (1691            34            154
3,500                                               654             76            461            679
5,000                                               977            260            781          1,073
6,500                                              1,270           444          1,101          1,466
vith 1001 subsidy on fungicides and sprayer
Returns per unday for:
oener  ngers at producer price CFAF/kg
330                                               2,250          1,412          2,571          3,024
375                                               2,344          1,471          2,679          3,150
425                                               2,456          1,667          3,036          3,570
500                                               3,125          1,761          3,571          4,200
sharecroppers at CFAF/charge (32kg)
1,500                                               293            284            320            394
3,500                                               684            429            747            919
5,000                                               977            613          1,066          1,313
6,500                                              1,270           797          1,386          1,706
vith 501 subsidy on fungicides and praYer
Returns per unday for:
owmer tmnagers at produCer prite CFAF/kg
330                                               2,250          1,382          2,548          3,004
3175                                              2,344          1,441          2,655          3,130
425                                               2,656          1,637          3,012          3,550
SO5                                               3,125          1,931          3,548          4,180
sharKroppers At CFAF/charge (32kg)
1,500                                               293            154            296            374
3,500                                               684            400            723              9
5,000                                               977            583          1,043          1,293
6,500                                             1,270            767          1,363          1,686
WAPM
October 1986



- 62 -
Annex 4-12
Page 1 of 4
TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUNMARY OF FARM BUDGETS
FARM MODELS
A.  Coffee
1.        Crop budgets represent four possible situations, for one hectare
coffee, intercropped with food crops. The four situations are:
Zone II - with and without fertilizer on coffee
Zone III - wlth and without fertilizer on coffee
Pruning is carried out on the coffee over a three year period,
one third of the area each year. Fertilizer is applied to food crops in
all situations.
2.        Farm budgets include an external plot for food crops and cover
ten situations as follows:
Zone II          Zone III
ha      no.       ha        no.
Type I. 0.6 ha new coffee
with fertiliser                    450     750       3,060    5,100
without fertiliser                 450     750         540      900
Type II. 0.6 + 0.3 ha new coffee
with fertiliser                    150     500       1,020    3,400
without fertiliser                 150     500         180      600
Type III. 0.9 ha existing coffee
+0.3 ha new coffee
with fertiliser                    425   1,400       1,075    3,600
Total                            1,625   3,900      5,875   13,600



- 63 -
Annex 4-12
Page 2 of 4
3.        Coffee and lntercrop areas are given below for the early years.
Type I                          Coffee              n(ha
(ha)                 (ha)
New planter       Ni           0.6                  0.36
N2          0.6                   0.36
N3          0.6                    -
Type II
New planter       Ni           0.6                  0.36
N2          0.6                   0.36
N3          0.6                    -
N4          0.6 + 0.3             0.18
NS          0.6 + 0.3             0.18
N6          0.6 + 0.3              -
Type III
Existing planter  Ni           0.9 + 0.3            0.18
N2          0.9 + 0.3             0.18
N3          0.9 + 0.3              -
4.        The objective of the external plot is to maintain the total food
crop area at about one hectare. The area of the external plot In each year
would therefore vary from 0.6 - 1.0 ha in the case of Types I and II and in
the models is shown as 1.0 ha except in the first two years. In type III
the external plot is assumed to be 0.5 ha throughout, the reduced area
being due to the larger labor need of the larger coffee area. The external
plot model is restricted to maixe, the most common food crop, although
rice, groundnuts, cowpeas, cassava and yams could also be grown.
B.  Cocoa
S.        Farm budgets are estimated for the two  replanting methods
recomended under the project: interplanting and hedge planting (haie
fruitiare).
Typ I - Owner-operated plantation of about 4 ha. Replanting would
take place In four tranches Ni, N7, Nil and N15 to avoid substantial losses
of current cocoa yields. New cocoa trees would be interplanted among the
old cocoa trees in layons of 12 a. This method would result in about 1,320
trees per ha.



- 64 -
Annex 4-12
Page 3 of 4
Type II - Owner-operated plantation of about 4 ha. New cocoa trees
would be planted in a clear area of about 24m, giving 660 trees per ha.
Fooderops would be cultivated in the plantation.
ha           no.
Type I             1,600          400
Type II              400          100
Total            2,000           500
6.        Detailed calculations of crop and farm budgets for the above
models are in the project file. Results are summarized on the following
page.



RESULTS OF FAR  UDETS
(At fill developeent in CFAFI 11
COFFEE (at producer price of CFAF 400 per kg)
Type I - With fertilizer                                                                  -                  Type I - Without fertilizer
Zone 2                                       zone 3                               Zone 2                                       Zone 3
h/O Projett -WI Project       2          K/0 Project  WI Pro3ect       2           l/D Project Wi Project      2           W/D Project W/ Project      %
Without Subsidies
*et Revenue                   88,000     234,300     166 t             98,000     368,700    319 2              98,000     229,000    159 t              88,000     318,200   262 S
Return per eanday                680       1,000     47 l                 680       1,890    176 1                 680       1,090     60                   680       1,370    101 t
With Subsidies
Wet Revenue                   88,000     246,300     190 l             88,000     380,700    333 2              B8,000     228,000    159 t              88,000     318,200    262 2
Return per sanday               680        1,100      62 t                680       1,940    1852                  680       1,090     60 2                 680       1,370    101 2
Type II - With fertilizer
Without Subsidies
Wet Revenue                  88,000      272,800    210                88,000     417,000    374 2              88,000     287,440    327 2              86,400     358,900    315 2
Return per eanday               680        1,300     91                   680       1,800    165 t                 680       1,540    226 t                 665       1,760    165 t
With Subsidies
Net Revenue                  88,000      292,000     232               88,000     435,000    394 t              88,000     289,000    329 2              86,400     360,000    317 2
Return per uanday                660       1,460     121                  680       1,890    178 2                 680       1,550    228 2                 665       1,770    166 2
Type III - With fertilizer
Without Subsidies
Wet Revenue                  225,200     348,700     55 2             328,800     627,300    91 t
Return per manday              1,430       1,730     21 t               1,800       2,330     29 2
lWith Subsidies
Net Revenue                  243,200     374,500     54 2             346,800     653,100     88 2
Return per eanday              1,550       1,860     20 t                1,900      2,420     27 2
MCOA (at CFAF 360 pr kg(
-------------                         Type I                                  Type tl
KIO Project V/ Project    2              t/O Project  W/ Project      2
Without Subsidies
Net Revenue                  264,000   1,112,000    321 2             264,000   1,471,760    457 2
Return per sanday              1,650      4,000      142 2              1,650       3,510    113 t
With Subsidies
Net Reenue                  264,000   1,112,000     321 2             264,000   1,502,960    469 2                                                                                                 o
Return per auay                1,650       4,000     142 2              1,650       3,590    118 2
1/ Full developeent is defined as about the seventh or eighth year for coffee, and year 20 for all four ha of ccoa, each ha reaching full developent about the seventh year frou planting.
WAPAA
October 1986



- 66 -                                                 Annex 4-13
Page 1 of 2
I060
M1INDI COmE AND COCOA OMEELll         PRUECT
SO     M _ r E         fRN EIPOTS 0  COFFEE AND COCOA
(in 19E6 prices)
1986     1987     1990    I5
Ibrld Pricn (US/ton) at
Coffee                             4,300    3,395    3,269    3,254
Cocoa                              2,090    2,037    1,868    1,938
Value Fab ICFAF OOO/ton) o/
Coffee c/                          1,116      923      807      863
Cocoa                                697      678      619      643
llarketing Cost (CFAf'000/ton) d1/
Coffe                                 94       84       84       84
Cocoa                                 59       59       59       59
Taxes (CFAF'OOO/tonl di
Coffe                                 82       82       82       82
Cocoa                                 61       61       61       61
Producer Prices ICFAF'OOO/tonl
Coffee                               365      400      400      400
Ceoa                                 330      360      360      360
National Production (ton)
Coffee                            10,300   10,717   12,769   16,651
Cocoa                              5,500    5,563    7,423   11,053
Incrtental Production Iton) ci
Coffee                                 0     (101)     463    6,059
Cocoa                                  0       63    1,923    5,553
OPAT surplus (CFAF eillion)
Cof fee                            6,63     3,817    4,097    5,276
Cocoa                              1,351    1,096    1,023    1,796
Tax Rteenues (CFAF million)
Coffee                               846      880    1,040    1,367
Cocoa                                338      342      456      680
Soverwnent Revenues ICFAF million)
Cof fee                            7,485    4,697    5,145    6,643
Cocoa                              1,609    1,438    1,479    2,476
Incremental Governmt Revenue
Coffee                                 0      (44)     187    2,417
Cocoa                                  0       16      383    1,244
Pfroject Contribution (as I of total)
Coffee                                 0        1)       4       36
Cocoa                                  0        1       26       50
a/ lorld bank projections (Au. 1996)
b/ at USCFAF3SO
c/coffee is discounted by 202 since the projKtod price is Arabica cif Me York
d/according to barm  15/1986
i/ assming producer prices are mintained   at lesit in real term  at the prent lvel



- 67 -
Annex 4-13
Page 2 of 2
HIRD COIFFEE *151A COCOA OEYELIF     PRO1ECT
SbMM  CWlO a/
fin current CFAf  llils)
17      19s6     19m9 1990         19       1912    1993     1n       1995    19%
IlCENETII lO11E COFFEE                                            756      457    1,442    3,092    4,953    6,613    7,677    7,665
11NTI1 INCONE COCOA                              41      449      921    1,344    1,768   2,479   3,445    4,371    5,553   5,742
PROJECT ERIERIIAL FINIANCI                       525   2,487    1,777    1,60f8   1,500    1,062     508
TOtlL IJBUL                                 5"    2,936    3,454    3,612    4,810   6,634    6,906   10,984   13,430   13,607
=1111 PSOECI
Sam PR_IL COt                                    31       44      110      220      330
hItE  ca REVOLVIt  FMJI                         IS0
A'9 6oWTS to UC                                   24      26       30       26       25
FARMEIS' OSMAE b/                                 23     259      569   1,104    1,950
AFTER PROECT
Su  P;IMIO L COT                                                                            500      540      563      630      60
SIUTWIE£ OF FEEWIEDR                                                                         at   1 6         95      102      11O
111RID CONTROL                                                                               461     497      537       60 627
hAT'S IITB    UCP                                                                             t6      15       It        6        4
FRM'S GM  bl                                                                               2,922    5,010    6,680    8,181    6,307
TOTAL OUTLF0N                               226     329      709   1,352   2,305    3,862   6,210    7,907    9,50       9,728
AEJI.I SALAIICE                                 339   2,607    2,745   2,260    2,505    2,752    2,67    3,078    3,924   3,679
CUWIATIVE BALANCE                               339   2,945    5,U91   7,950   10,455   13,207   15,904   18,981   22,905  26,784
a/ aecludie  debt ervic  diich  will icuar after 1994
b/assusioq prodcr priCes be sintainhd in real tern
WAPM
October 1986



- 68 -
Annex 4-14
Page 1 of 6
TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Prices
1.        Economic prices for coffee, cocoa, and fertilizer are derived
from the projected world market prices by the World Bank (August 1986).
Economic prices of pesticides are based on the present imported prices.
For foodcrops, the financial prices are used as the amount produced from
the project is small, and prices are determined by market forces.
Assumptions
2.        The following assumptions are used in the analysis:
(a) benefits and costs are expressed in constant 1986 prices, net
of identifiable taxes and duties.
(b) Cost estimates include physical contingencies at the rates
specified in para 4.25 of the main text.
(c) Benefits from the planting program and the plant protection
program are included in the analysis of the project economic
rate of return. It is also assumed that 50% of the new coffee
area would replace old Niaouli varieties and 50% will replace
fallows or forest land. Planting of cocoa would be carried
out on old cocoa plantations. Benefits from the existing
coffee planted under the first two projects have not been
included as it is difficult to separate effects of the third
project from the first two projects.
(d) After the project implementation period, recurrent costs as
well as replacement of vehicles, and maintenance of building
and roads would continue. No investment costs would be
incurred.
(e) As the average planting areas would be small (0.6 ba and 0.3
ha), a family with about 2.4 active members would be able to
carry out t;Ie cultivation with an occasional hiring of labour
during the peak season (around July when foodcrops are
harvested). There is no apparent sign of serious
underemployment during other months. Consequently, labor is
costed at the financial price of CFAF 575 per manday.



- 69 -
Annex 4-14
Page 2 of 6
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
3.        ERR is estimated for new coffee and cocoa plantings (including
interplanted foodcrops). Benefit/cost ratios are estimated for the
plant protection program as the expenses are mainly recurrent. However,
as the latter is a part of the cocoa development program, the cost and
benefits are included in the calculation of the project ERR.
Components                     ERR            B/C
Coffee (new planting)          22%
Cocoa (new planting)           10%
Mirid control                                  7
Blackpod control                              10
Entire project                 32%
4.        Sensitivity Analysis
ERR (7)
Base                            32
Yields decrease 25%             27
Prices decrease 30%             21
Labour cost increases 30%       29
Project cost increases 30%    26
(Other than inputs)
A combination of delays in
benefits two years, vields
decrease 25%, labour and
input costs increase 25%,
and proiect cost
increases 30%                    10
Cost                  Benefit
Switching Value  (at 10%)              + 138%                   - 56%



Annex 4-14
10GO                                   l'age  3 of  6
THIRD COFFEE ANC COCOA OEVELOPMENM FR'JECI
FINARC!I! AND ECONOMIC PRI['F
* 986 nrc;PS'
COFFEE
------                                  Financual                                                         Econanic
1086       1987      1990i      1 9 5                          19%6       1987       1990       1995
worct Price  a!                 4,300     3,395      3,269       3,254                         4,300      3,395      3,269      3,254
Insu,ante & Freight               100        It 00      10         1 0                           100        100        100        100
iUS$'ton)                  -- - - -- - - -- - - -- ---i-    ---------                      ----------- ---
Value FOB Lome 1US$Ston)       4,200      3.2Q5      3,169      3154                           4,200      3,295      3,169      3,154
…---------------------------------------…CFAF!ton----------------------------------------------
V'alue FOB Loae      bi    1,470,000 1,153,167 1,109,008 1,104,06.                         1,470,000 1,153,167 1,109,008 1,104,062
Qualty Discaunt(20%)         294,i00   230,633   221,8Q2   220,812                           294,000   230,633   221,802   220,812
Value FOB Lome'            1,176,000   922,533   887,207   823,250                         i,1?6,000   922,533   887,207   883,250
Marketing & Distribution
Cost   El
Cosassionl                 15,419    15,410    15,41$0    15,41i                           15,410    15,410    15,410    15,410
Transportation              7,000      7,000      7,00       7,CQO                          7,000      7,000     7,000      7,000
Others                     61,870    61,870    61,670    L1,87?0                          61,870    61,870    61,870    61,870
5ub-Total                   84,280    24,280    84,  4) _4,-20                              84,280    84,280    84,280    84,280
Taxes    a/
Exit Taxes                 21,000    21,000    21,100    ._,.A                                  L          0          0          0
Sales Tax                  4!,680    41,680    41,tBO    41,t3t                                 0          0          0          0
8thers                     19,430    19,430    '',4 .0    i1.9A0                                0          0          0          0
8ub-Total                   82,110    82,110    82,110   82,A:1                                 0          0          0          0
Hulling & Sorting            146,695   109,867   104,714   104.!59                           '56,626   121,798   116,665   116,090
Farigate Price               862,915   646,2?6   616,083   1!2.701                           4'7.094   716,456   686,262   682,880
a/  World Bank projection (August 1986)
b/  Projection is arabica CIf New York, thus a 2::Z discount -. applied te  efictt  the difference in quality
cU Bareee 1985186
di 17: of the farugate price



- 71 -
Annex 4-14
Page 4 of 6
11 COCOA
Financial                                                     Econonic
1986      1987      1990       1995                         1986       1987      1990       199'
World PrIee    al             2,090     2,037      1,868      1,938                        2,090     2,037      1,868     1,938
WUS$/ton)
Insurance & Freight             100        100       100        100                          100       100        100       100
(US$-toni--------                                                                      ----------------------------------------
Value FOB Lose'
US$Iton                    1,990     1,937      1,768     1,838                         1,990     1,937      1,768     1,838
-------------------------------------------CFAF/ton---------------------------------------------
Yalue FOB Lone'             696,500   677,900   618,719   643,473                        696,500   677,900   618,719   643,473
Marketing & Distribution
Cost    bJ
Connission                13,690    13,690    13,690    13,690                         13,690    13,690    13,690    13,90
TrF ,portation             7,000     7,000      7,000     7,000                         7,000     7,000      7,000     Q,0Q0
C   rs                    38,770    38,770    38,770    38,770                         38,770    38,770    38J770    38,770
Sub-Total                  59,460    59,460    59,460    59,460                         59,460    59,460    59,460    59,460
Taxes    b/
Exit Taxes                10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000                              0         0          0
Sales Tax                 35,350    35,350    35,350    35,350                              0         0          0         0
Others                    16,140    16,140    16,140    16,140                              0         0          0         0
Sub-Total                  61,490    61,490    61,490    61,490                              0         0          0         0
Faragate Price              575,550   556,950   497,769   522,523                        637,040   618,440   559,259   584,013
a/  World Bank projection (August 1986)
bi Barene  1985/86



- 72 -
Annex 4-14
T06O                                                            Page  5  of  6
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF FERTILIZER
(in 1996 prices)
UREA
1987         1990         !9S5
FOB US Gulf  (USS/ton)                          155         20'           189
Isurance and transport (US$/ton)                30            it          30
CIF Lose (USS/ton)                              185          23'          219
CFAF/ton
CIF Lose                                    64,816       82,409       76,692
Port fees                                 2,000        2,000        2,000
Transport to warehouse                    3,230        3,230        3,230
Transport to villages                     3,510        3,510        3,510
Handling cost                               280          280          280
Sub-total                       7,216        7,216        7,216
Faregate prices                             72,032       89,625       83,908
20-10-10
1987         1990         1995
FOB US 6ulf (USS/ton)                          115          162          160
Isurance and transport (US$/ton)                35           35           35
CIF Loae (USS/ton)                             150           197         195
CFAF/ton
CIF Lose                                    52,478       68,960       68,100
Port fees                                 2,000        2,000        2,000
Transport to varehous?                    3,230        3,230        3,230
Transport to villages                     3,510        3,510        3,510
Handling cost                               280          280          280
Sub-total                       7,216        7,216        7,216
Faregate prices                             59,694       76,176       75,316
PNH4 Idap)
1987         1990        1995
FOB US Gulf (lSt/ton)                           179         226          236
Isurance and transport (lSt/ton)                50           80           80
CIF Lose (US$1ton)                             259          306          316
CFAF/ton
CIF Lone                                    90,803      107,100      110,741
Port fees                                 2,000        2,000        2,000
Transport to warehouse                    3,230        3,230        3,230
Transport to villages                     3,510        3,510        3,510
Handling cost                               280          280          280
Sub-total                       7,216        7,216        7,216
Faragate prices                             98,019      114,316      117,957



- 73 -                               Annex  4-14
Page 6 of 6
TOEiO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
…----------- ------------    ------------
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAM
TOTAL             TOTAL              TOTAL             TOTAL               NEI
GROSS           PROJECT             LABOUR              INPUT          BENEFITS
YEAR   BENEFITS               coSI              COSt               COST                                  ERR
-------------------------------------------…(CFAF fILLION)-------------------------------
I       153.9            2426.8              342.8               75.8           -2691.5                 32X
2       481.5            1652.1              437.5               45.0           -1653.1
3      1005.6             1605.0             558.5              135.6           -1293.5
4      1734.0            1526.6              711.6              180.4            -684.6
5      2631.0             1364.5             771.1              138.7             356.7
6      4090.6            1034.7              667.8              165.6            2222.5
?      5667.2             794.2              748.8              187.6            3936.6
8      6870.2             794.2              820.5              208.7            5046.8
9      7765.9             794.2              862.5              212.5            5896.7
10      7873.0             794.2              846.2              203.7            6028.9
11      8231.2             794.2              848.0              205.4            6383.6
3      3856.1             794.2              860.1             209.4             6672.4
!3     8785.3              794.2              880.1             210.4             6Q00.6
14      8786.0             794.2              856.5              201.1            6934.2
15      8814.7             794.2              863.4              202.3            6954.8
16      8576.7             794.2              864.8              210.7            6707.0
17      8503.9             794.2              865.8              213.3            6630.b
18      8445.8             794.2              838.4              198.6            6614.6
19      8683.1             794.2              855.3              194.2            6839.4
20      8655.3              794.2             858.7              193.8            6812.6
21      8671.2             794.2              861.0              193.8            6822.2
22      8433.9             794.2              848.1              196.3            6595.3
23      8368.1             794.2              845.8              196.8            6531.3
24      8305.1             794.2              842.3              194.6            6474.0
25      8405.2             794.2              853.0              189.9            6568.1
NET
PRESENT
VALUE   43972.1            11001.4            b409.1             1468.0           25093.6
WAPAA
October 1986



IBRD 19605
! |   _                                            ,, Z  _          ~~~~~~~~~~~GHANA 22 sEI
S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T .                           ,    , W" ,  ".   ' , - F.b;
I t    Ai                                             _       _       )' A; '    (.2OGO~~~~~~~~~~t ~- 
wa.-aft~~~~~~Aa ho,
%~~~~~~~~~~CP0 ,>                                 d -- .GHAN-A  OG 
<   <   trZ   k   , J                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT~~~~~~~~- LOM
c   u I )  e a
' \    gis  /  J  {  1    5           ~~~~Admanistrativo Distr7ct No  Secor                Crop
/   ,8   /  1/   /                         ~~~~~ ~~KLOTO          KPALIMF NORTH             C.K
AKPAME  y    2 KPAUME SOUTH            C.K
12  A~~~~~~~~~0                                    AO                         .
PETE 05E ' /IE,NA/                                                                 KPELE                    C.K
THIRD AD TA  |cOFFDAYES                      C
30 {>st i/ V r,~~~~~~~~~~~~ AKEBOU                                                                   C
Admiistrtiv j     No}      AKPOSSO                   C
KLOTO  ,,/ ,  '       AKPOSSO NORTH            C     70
5vsX,                                                               C3 Aw7  GOBE                      C
I9t>    U                                              0 UTIME  I  TOMEGBE-KPETE-8ENA    K
0+t i    *\  BAD7OU               K
4 NZ1 PredominantlyACScOa
,    Coffee and Cocoa
A     Cocoa Seed Garden (Zozokondji)
*    Coffee Nurseries (SRCCIFCC)
,  \    g SRCC Headquorters
-,  \   Ti   .   Tarrmoc Roads
…O\ Dht Roads
f -° - -Sector Limits
,°    ! , 2    }       .                      °,              )             -.-  International Boundanes
KIttOMETERS 1
MAY 1986



IBRD 19606
B U R K I N A                          ,           
->' --.-.-F  A S                        /
O <Ar.A(G                  |
0   g                   f              ~TOGO                     
'THIRD COFFEE-COCOA
IDEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
PROJECT AREA
K f  A.
Z        (                               l <   @ AV1A KA'4A \   /
\.                                        N  't
4r
PROJECT AREA    \
CO`CoA
-         ASP'ALT ROAD'            )
_   ,ATEP TE ROAD,               N)|I
, , - 1-A.*AYS YWAYUES                                                    |
Q   REGI0N CAP:TALS                   -°,ro
REGION. BOUNDARIFS   !
*   NATIONYAL CAPITAL
-. -  INTERNATIONAL B0UNOLOAAES
LU-
~~~ADo ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    C
lITIMFm              A                                 )
m.~~~~~~ wwAY eiN 4F~                             
T        ho    -r w _. AW t                    G4 
v0        40000hOO              4
ALU2tAt_t                             DT                             _<, 
'..*s -t .*00 T  1h 0.0    tt                       so    
..day.t 0 .0o  .              G-ff 
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~a~~ 
te..  ett-    T ,d *7.            KLOTO\ 
0.40    r  400,  04                                                  <t            
SENE        --                        
I.. ~ ~    ~    Sacf>                  ,-i LI
AI4A04r/C OCfAA(       E00.,4&P                                                            1986  
APRIL 1986



