The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR ay2-To
Report No. P-4367-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 11, 1986
This document has a restricted dismbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discioe without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit      -       CPA Franc (CFAF)
US$1               -       CFAF 350
CFAF 1             -       US$0.0028
CFAF 1,000,000     -       US$2857
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNCA      -    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Togo
National Agricultural Credit Agency
DAY       -    Direction Administrative et Financi&re
Administration and Finance Department
DOA       -    Direction des Operations Agricoles
Agricultural Operations Department
DRA       -    Direction de la Recherche Agronomique
Directorate of Agricultural Research
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
French Development Aid Agency
ICO       -    International Coffee Organization
IRAT      -    Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
-             Research Institute for Tropical Agronomy
IRCC      -    Institut de Recherche du Cafe et du Cacao
Research Institute for Coffee and Cocoa
MBR       -    Direction Materiel, Batiment et Routes
Civil Works Department
OPAT      -    Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
Agricultural Commodities Marketing Agency
SRCC      -    Societe Nationale pour la Renovation et le Developpement
de la Cacaoyare et de la Cafgiere Togolaises
National Cocoa and Coffee Development Company
STCP      -    Societe Togolaise de Commerce des Produits
National i±arketing Agency
UCP       -    Uniee de Credit du Projet
Project Credit Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government     January L to December 31
SRCC           January L to December 31
UCP            October 1 to September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:         Societe Nationale pour la Renovation et le
D6veloppement de la Cacaoyare et de la Cafeiere
Togolaises (SRCC)
Amount:              SDR 14.9 million (US$17.9 million equivalent)
Tenrs:               Standard IDA terms
FlDW of Credit
Proceeds:           Borrower to SRCC (US$17.9 million): Grant
Project
Description:         The project would aim to increase coffee and cocoa
production through both improving the productivity of
investments under the first and second cocoa-coffee
development projects and by plantings in new areas. It
would be implemented over five years and would include:
(a) provision of inputs and technical advice to farmers
for the planting of 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha of
cocoa, maintenance of existing 16,600 ha of coffee
planted under the first two projects, and development
of some 22,000 ha of foodcrops; (b) implementation of
annual plant protection programs against pest attacks
on existing cocoa trees (mirid and blackpod); (c)
applied research in coffee, cocoa and foodcrops; (d)
construction (250 km) and maintenance of feeder roads;
(e) establishment of about 250 farmers' groups for
marketing, input distribution and saving purposes; (f)
support to SRCC, including 14 man-years of technical
assistance and 12 man-months of short-term consultants'
services; and (g) studies of land tenure problems in
the project area and a future strategy for cocoa-coffee
development in Togo.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii - 
Estimated Project Costs a/
Local        Foreign       Total
JUS$ million
Agricultural Development              1.5          5.1           6.6
Applied Research                      2.2           1.7          3.9
Feeder Roads                          1.4           4.4          5.8
Institutional Development             5.2          4.2           9.4
Total Base Cost                      10.3         15.4          25.7
Physical Contingencies                0.3          0.8           1.1
Price Contingencies                   2.7           3.7          6.4
Total Project Cost                   13.3         1929          33.2
a/ including US$1.1 million for taxes and duties and
US$1.5 million for activity financed under the Project
Preparation Facility.
Financing Plan                       Local         Foreign    Total
US$ million -
IDA                                   6.6         11.3          17.9
CCCE                                  2.1           3.6          5.7
PAC                                   1.1           1.8          2.9
Government                            2.2          0.4           2.6
UCP                                   1.3          2.8           4.1
13.3         19.9          33.2
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit:
F8   F8   FY90   FY91   FM9   FY93
Annul                        3.76  3.58  3.58   3.22   2.33   1.43
nslative                     3.76  7.34  10.92  14.14  16.47  17.90
Economic Rate of Return: 32%



Benefits and Risks
Project benefits would accrue to the Government through iqcreased
foreign exchange earnings (US$20 million annually at full development) and
to farm families through increased incomes. Farmers' per capita income
would more than double and would increase to US$170, about 60Z of the
national average. The main project risk would be the cocoa replanting
program component (accounting for 2Z of the estimated project costs) which
was beset with technical and financial difficulties under the first two
projects. To limit the risk, an initial planting program (aboit 450 ha)
would be implemented over two years taking into account the lessons from
the earlier two projects and successful trials of new techniques elsewhere
in West Africa. A joint Government/IDA review of technical progress and
farmers' acceptance of the cocoa program would take place during the third
year of the project to determine whether it should continue and on what
scale.  Another risk is the viability of the credit unit (UCP), given the
poor recovery performance under the first two projects. Specific project
features, including better selection of farmers, and an increased role of
coffee and cocoa marketing agents and farmers' associations in credit
recovery would improve the recovery performance and therefore maintain
credit availability to farmers.
Staff Appraisal Report No. 6220-TO
Maps: IBRD 19606
IBRD 19605



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF-THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR
A THIRD .COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR !4.9 million (US$17.9 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Togo to help finance a
proposed Third Coffee and Cocoa Development Project. Additional external
financing for the project would be prnvided by France's Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), in
amounts estimated at the equivalent of US$5.7 million and US$2.9 million,
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Togo is a small country (56,800 km 2) with a population of 2.9
million and a per capita GNP of US$250 (1984). Between 1980-85, phosphate
mining accounted for more than 40% of exports, and contributed about 17% of
government revenues. The three main agricultural export crops (coffee,
cocoa and cotton) accounted for 25% of exports and about 10% of government
revenues.
3.        Until 1974, the Government of Togo pursued cautious economic and
financial policies and succeeded iti achieving rapid economic growth, with
an average annual growth rate of 7% in real terms, while maintaining public
and external financial equilibria. However, during the second half of the
1970s, after the 1975 fourfold increase in world phosphate prices, the
Government undertook expansionary fiscal and monetary policies and embarked
on an ambitious public investment program which proved inadequate and
contributed little to long-term economic growth.
4.        Because of the low returns on public investment, a deterioration
of the terms of trade and increased financing constraints, the economy
started to slow down by the end of the 1970s and then declined, while
serious imbalances occurred in the public finances and balance of payments.
The gross domestic product (GDP) declined in real terms by 4.1 per year on
average between 1980 and 1983. The Government began to accumulate payment
arrears to external creditors and local suppliers in 1978. In 1979, the
overall f'scal deficit reached 14.3% of GDP and the balance of payments
current account deficit 23.1% of GDP. Under two IMF-supported financial
stabilization programs, Togo negotiated external debt reschedulings in 1979
and 1981. However, the stabilization programs were not fully implemented
and the external debt service continued to increase as well as domestic and
external arrears.
5.        Faced with a worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government recognized the need for a more comprehensive recovery policy at
the end of 1982. Since 1983, it has adopted additional and more stringent
financial stabilization programs supported by four IMF stand-by



-2-
arrangements and two structural adjustment programs supported by two
consecutive.IDA credits and a credit from the Special Facility fQr
Sub-Saharan Africa. Togo has made good progress in achieving the
objectives of these programs..
6.        IMF-supported Financial Stabilization Programs.  The performance
criteria under the four IMF-supported financial stabilization programs
adopted since 1983 were met. The Government made all purchases provided
under the 1983/84, 1984/85. and 1985/86 stand-by arrangements (SDR 21.4
million in 1983/84. and SDR 19.0 million in 1984/85, and SDR 15.4 million
in 1985/86), and is awaiting the third purchase under the two-year 1986/88
stand-by arrangement. Under these programs, efforts have been made to
increase government revenues and limit public current expenditure in both
personnel and operating spending. Public investmpnt was scaled down in
1983 but has begun to increase since 1984.  In addition, debt reschedulings
were granted from 1983 to 1985. For 1986, the Government decided not to
seek further debt rescheduling.
7.        IDA-supported Structural Adjustment Programs.  Under the first
structural adjustment program, significant progress was made in reforming
economic policies and institutions, and in stabilizing public finances. A
new system of public investment programming was launched, producer prices
for key export crops were raised, a number or uneconomic public enterprises
were closed and two other public enterprises were leased to private opera-
tors. The Government, with assistance from the Association, prepared a
second phase of its structural adjustment program. The IDA and African
Facility Credits totalling SDR 38.2 million support measures aimed at
consolidating and expanding the progress achieved under the first structur-
al adjustment program with regard to government finance, the public sector
investment program and public enterprise rehabilitation, as well as initi-
ating the reorganization of key economic ministries. The second structural
adjustment program also includes an action program to achieve a substantial
expansion of output in the agricultural sector, the main supply potential
of the economy- After Goverment compliance with specific conditions of
program implementation, IDA released the second tranche on July 29, 1986,
and the IDA Credit and African Facility Credit have been fully disbursed.
8.        Recent Economic Developments.  After the economic decline between
1980 and 1983, real GDP increased by 2% in 1984 and 5% in 1985. The
resumption of economic growth in 1984 and the strong performance in 1985
stemmed from further increases in food and export crop output which re-
sponded to favorable weather, agricultural price incentives and improved
extension services. In addition, in 1984, phosphate rock production and
export- increased, and in 1985, commerce and manufacturing increased, as
well as construction activity in connection with the regional Nangbeto
hydroelectric project. On the financial side, the external current account
deficit declined to 7.5% of GDP in 1985 and the overall fiscal deficit to
1.5% of GDP. For 1986, GDP is expected to continue to grow in real terms
and financial ratios are expected to be stable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
9.        Bank Group lending to Togo (Annex II) totals 25 credits,
amounting to US$273.58 million of which US$88.22 million is undisbursed,
and a loan of US$3.50 million. Eleven credits and the loan are fully
disbursed. IDA lending has financed roads; agriculture (cocoa, coffee,
cotton and food crops); education; the feasibility studies for a



-3-
phosphate fertilizer plant; and technical assistance to the Ministries of
Planning, Rural Development and State Enterprises.   Togo has also
benefitted from Bank group support td regional operations; including
two DFC operations, a credit for the feasibility study for the Nangbeto
regional hydroelectric power project and a further credit for the
development of that project; a fully disbursed Bank loan of US$49.5 million
to CIMAO (a regional clinker plant) jointly and severally guaranteed by
Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo, and a further IDA credit of US$5.7 million for
CIMAO.
10.       In the past, project lending has dealt with development needs and
policy issues in specific sectors. However, following the deterioration of
the overall economic situation in the late 1970s, sector specific actions
were no longer sufficient. Therefore emphasis in lending to Togo shifted
to a more comprehensive approach supported by policy-based lending such as
under the first and second structural adjustment programs. Moreover, in a
small country like Togo, structural adjustment lending provides an opportu-
nity to support development in a broad range of sectors. In those sectors
where the Association is already involved, not only has project lending
been consistent with the goals of the structural adjustment program, but In
addition, components of new projects, particularly in agriculture and
transport, are designed to prepare for and support the adjustment measures.
11.       The first and second technical assistance projects have helped
the Government formulate sound investment and macroeconomic policies.
Through these projects, the Association initiated a fruitful policy dia-
logue which has been essential for the .preparation of the first and second
structural adjustment programs. Consultant studies of several state
enterprises have been financed in order to determine their potential
viability, and for those which are viable, to identify measures necessary
to improve their performance.  A capacity to conduct project evaluations
and to monitor the performance of ongoing development projects is being
established in the Ministry of Planning. A planning unit has been
established in the Ministry of Rural Development to analyze agricultural
project proposals. Under its auspices, a review of all rural development
projects has been conducted in order to provide the basis for the
formulation of a rural development strategy. In addition, a price analysis
and monitoring unit located in the agricultural conmodities marketing
agency, OPAT, and a research group in the Ministry of Rural Development,
have been created.
12.       IDA has financed credits for agricultural projects designed to
increase farmer's incomes and to stimulate foodcrop production through
development of major cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, and cotton. The
latest was a supplementary credit for the Second Rural Development Project
in cotton areas approved in FY86. Additional financing has been provided
to help finance one additional ginnery, village storage facilities and
additional transport equipment, all in response to a considerable increase
in cotton production over the past three years well above original
expectations. The proposed project would support the development of coffee
and cocoa, and an Agricultural Extension Project is being appraised to
improve national extension services.
13.       A water supply project approved in 1983 has improved Lome's water
supply and contains provisions for future project preparation and other
studies. The water and sewerage agency (RNET), an economically viable
state enterprise, is being strengthened as a result of the project. The
four credits in the road sector supported efforts to build up an efficient



-4..
maintenance service, upgrade the country's main roads, and start comprehen-
sive tranBpprt planning and coordination. A separate project for feeder
road development provides for improvement works and rural maintenance
operations. The first education project financed the construction of
teacher training facilities and the expansion of existing facilities, and
fellowships. A second educational improvement project seeks further
improvements in the education system through teacher training,
organizational and management reforms.
14.       Execution of most Bank Group-financed projects in Togo is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. However, delays in disbursement have been frequent
in recent years because of the cumbersome administrative regulations
governing public contract award in Togo. The Government has been made
aware of this problem and is working on appropriate means to simplify
procedures.
III - THE RUEAL SECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
15.       Togo's agricultural sector accounts for about 302 of GNP and
employs about 1.0 million persons full or part time (about 80% of the
national labor force). Domestic crop production assures a satisfactory
overall level of food self-sufficiency (about 1800 calories per person per
day). The sector also produces cocoa, coffee and cotton which contribute
about 30% of Togo's export earnings, with cocoa and coffee providing about
202. Taxes on export crops and profits on export crop trading generate
about 10% of government revenues.
16.       Farmers plant annually about 450,000 ha in fooderops (maize,
sorghum, yam, cassava), 30,000 ha in cotton, while the area of perennial
crops is 110,000 ha in coffee, cocoa and oil palm. Foodcrops account for
about 75% of agricultural production and the cash crops for the remainder.
Annual growth in the sector has teen modest since the early 1970s: about 2%
for cereals, slightly less than 1% for root crops, and an actual decline in
coffee and cocoa production. The major exception of these trends has been
in cotton production which has grown at 8% p.a. Most of the growth in
annual crops has come from area expansion. It does not appear chat this
modest performance has resulted from lack of resources or uncontrollable
factors. An adequate land base exists. Rainfall has been more sporadic in
recent years than in the past, but Togo has not been as severely affected
as its northern neighbours. With more than 50% of cultivated land found on
farms of more than 2 ha, farm structure has been adequate to permit the
production of marketable surpluses. Farmers themselves have been willing
to innovate and to adopt improved technology when this has been shown to be
in their interest. The major constraint thus lies at the sectoral policy
rather than at the farm level. Farmers as a whole have not been adequately
serviced, and equally important, they have not received the prices required
to permit and encourage widespread investment in improved techniques.
These issues are being addressed under structural adjustment programs as
well as in sectoral lending.
The Institutional Framework
17.       Responsibility for the agricultural sector is shared by two
ministries. The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) is essentially con-
cerned with policy formulation and coordination of production activities
and includes directorates for'research, development, cooperatives and



-5-
credit, livestock, and training. The Ministry of Rural Equipment, is
concerned primarily with infrastructural development and support services,
and includes directorates for rural engineering, pedology, plant protec-
tion, veterinary services, forestry and fisheries, and inspection of
produce.
18.       Because of weak Government institutions, execution of agricultur-
al development projects has been generally entrusted to independent project
units which focussed on specific tasks, such as Soci±t6 Nationale pour le
Palmier a Huile (SONAPH) for oil palm, Soci6t4 Togolaise du Coton (SOTOCO)
for cotton, and Soci6tk Nationale pour la Rinovation et Developpement de la
Cacaoyere et de la Cafeiare Togolaises (SRCC) for cocoa and coffee. In
addition to their crop specific mandates, these organisations have assumed
broad responsibilities for general extension,.applied research, input
supply, seed production, marketing, road construction and maintenance, and
social infrastructure development. These organizations have had compara-
tively limited clientele (e.g. SOTOCO about 100,000 farmers, SRCC about
24,000) although these farmers are relatively well served. A broader
approach to extension is currently under examination in the context of a
proposed Agricultural Extension Project.
19.       Agricultural credit is a responsibility of the National Bank for
Agricultural Credit (CNCA). In accordance with the recommendation of the
Central Bank of West Africa, the preferential rate for lending in
agriculture is 8% to 9%, while the commercial rate is 9.5% to 14.5%. A
Project Credit Unit (Unite de Credit du Projet, UCP?) was created in CNCA in
1974 to handle credit under the coffee and cocoa development in the project
area (para 26).
20.       The Ministry of Trade hnd MDR supervise two agricultural state
trading companies: Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) which
purchases and exports coffee, cocoa, cotton, palm oil, and palm kernels;
and TOGOGRAIN for procuring domestic food crops. OPAT's trading activities
produce sizeable surpluses for the Government. These have been used to
finance overall government expenditures and development in general, with
some 6% reinvested in agriculture. OPAT is also responsible for price
stabilization, but except for 1985/86 cotton trading, this has not been
necessary owing to low producer prices compared to realized export prices.
TOGOGRAIN was intended to play a stabilizing role for foodcrops by tiwely
interventions in the market. However, it did not master the techniques
required of a price regulatory agency and has now become a manager of
security stocks of about 10,000 tons.
21.       Agriculture research is carried out by researchers (both expatri-
ate and local) employed by the commodity-oriented institutes such as
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivriares
(IRAT) for foodcrops, Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et les Plantes
Textiles (IRCT) for fIber crops and Institut de Recherches du Cafe et du
Cacao (IRCC) for coffee and cocoa. Soil studies, classification, mapping,
and analytical work are undertaken by Office de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique Outre-Mer (ORSTOM). Foodcrop research is also carried out by
the Directorate for Agricultural Research (DRA) in MDR.
The Coffee and Cocoa Subsector
22.       Coffee is planted in the Plateau region, principally in the
Akpossc and Dayes areas (Map 29605). The area planted in coffee is esti-
mated at 60.000 ha, although onlv some 35,000 ha of Niaouli varieties are



-6-
reported in production outside the 16,600 ha of Robusta planted under the
first two IDA supported Cocoa-Coffee Development Projects. Farm size is
relatively small, with an average of about 0.7 ha in Robusta coffee, and/or
one ha in Niaouli coffee and one ha in foodcrop for a family of about
seven. Average yields are 100-150 kg per ha for old Niaouli coffee trees
compared to 500 kg per ha for newly planted and adequately maintained
Robusta coffee trees. Coffee production reached a peak of 17,000 tons in
1968/69 and rapidly declined in the early 1970s. This was partly due to
inadequate services for providing improved planting materials and technical
advice to farmers, and partly because the producer prices have been set too
low to induce growers to care for their plantations.  Two DA-financed
projects were aimed at removing these constraints (paras. 24 and 25) and
the technical recommendations have been well accepted by farmers. At
present, the level of production is around 10,300 tons.
23.       Cocoa cultiration is also concentrated in the Plateau region, in
particular in the Litime and Kloto plains (Map 19605). The total area
under cocoa is estimated at 35.000 ha. Farmers in the area have on average
4 ha of cocoa and 0.5 ha in fooderops. Very little cocoa was planted in
the 1960s because of low prices and the absence of a development effort
geared to provide farmers with technical and financial assistance. In
1969, the Government took steps to provide support for the cocoa subsector.
A program to control capsid pests and swollen shoot virus disease was suc-
cessfully initiated, and in 1971, a cocoa rehabilitation program with
financial assistance from FAC was started. The first IDA-financed
Coffee-Cocoa Development Project was a follow up to this program. The
achievement to date has been disappointing due to inappropriate replanting
techniques as well as inadequate financial incentives, aggravated by the
land tenure problems.  In addition, serious technical constraints were
evident in the form of pests (mirid), and diseases (swollen shoot and
blackpod). These could only be controlled with substantial chemical
treatments which were not financially affordable at the low producer
prices. After reaching a peak of 29,000 tons in 1970/72, cocoa production
declined markedly to an annual average of 15,000 tons during 1975-84, and
5,500 tons in 1985/86. Average yields are low, around 150-200 kg/ha.
Where adequate measures have been taken to control pest and disease
problems, yields of 400 kg/ha could be expected.
Experience in Past Lending
24.        The Association helped finance a Cocoa-Coffee Development
'Project in 1974. Its main objectives were to: plant some 4,400 ha of cocoa
and 4,000 ha of coffee; strengthen the executing agency, SRCC, and the
agricultural bank, CNCA; conduct applied tree crop research; and construct
and rehabilitate about 160 km of feeder roads. A Project Performance Audit
Report (Report No. 4552) on this project was prepared in June 1983.
The coffee planting program was substantially ahead of appraisal estimates
(43Z) while the cocoa plantings were only half the estimates. The project
proved to have closely integrated adaptive research, production and distri-
bution of improved planting material, extension and supervised credit
disbursement, and through its feeder road program, has facilitated the
spread of these activities in the cocoa and coffee producing areas.
Management of the Project Credit Unit was punctilious but operating costs
were high relative to the lending volume. Project yields were lower than
appraisal estimates because of slower respntoE t  t.he new cultural



-7-
practices. However, the revised economic rate of return was still
satisfactory at 2SC for the project as a whole.
25.       The need for continuing cocoa and coffee rehabilitation led to
further f$nancing by IDA, CCCE, and FAC of a Second Cocoa-Coffee Develop-
ment Project in 1979. This project, expected to be completed in December
1986, provided for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500 ha of
coffee and 4,000 ha of cocoa as well as services, applied research,
associated foodcrop development and seed production, and construction of
300 km of feeder roads. From the start of the project, the cocoa component
encountered serious technical difficulties due to unsuitable replanting
techniques under the local conditions and the prevalence of mirnd pests and
blackpod disease (para. 23). Only 20% of the replanted area is expected to
yield satisfactory results. In view of the poor performance of the cocoa
component, a detailed mid-term review of the project was carried out by the
Bank. As a result, the Government decided to revise project objectives and
stopped all new plantings of cocoa (after 500 ha had been achieved). A
pilot program was set up to test. on farm sites, various blackpod control
techniques, as well as alternative methods of replanting old cocoa. The
plant protection program was strengthened with additional staff and
equipment, and better management. Support was also provided from IRCC to
this unit in various techniques to control the disease and to monitor the
effect of treatments. The coffee planting program, however, continued to
be at 10-15% above appraisal estimates. A pruning program has been
undertaken to sustain yield levels and a promising start was made without
the provision of a financial incentive (prime de recepage) as proposed
under the second project. The number of farmers participating in the
1985/86 pruning program is at least triple that of the previous year (about
1,000 farmers covering 750 ha).
26.       Togolese institutions performed weil in project execution.
Extension services provided by SRCC continue to be satisfactory. However,
some improvements could be made in the use of extension workers' time in
various tasks and in the training content and method. Road execution
continues to progress well due to an excellent organization and implementa-
tion capacity. SRCC management has been effective but there is little
delegation of responsibilities, and control is mainly by expatriates.
Credit is administered by the UCP. Between 1975-1985 UCP's costs were
within an acceptable limit (5% of outstanding loans) considering that over
30,000 separate small accounts were involved. However, recovery of credit
awarded for plantation establishment was only 55% of credit due for coffee
and 10% of credit due for cocoa. Recovery of seasonal credit was 40%.
This performance is explained in part by the fact that credit was
distributed through loosely constituted groups with no organized means for
repaying, and no adequate marketing channel such as exists for cotton,
which provides a check-off system for credit recovery from individuals.
Moreover, the combination of generous cash advances to cover hired labour
costs during the establishment period, and official low producer prices for
coffee and cocoa, had the effect of raising farmer's debt service costs to
as much as 30% to 35% of net farm cash income which discouraged voluntary
repayment. UCP has been able to cover its operating costs with the
recoveries it makes, but by end-1985, credit worth about CFAF 1.6 billion
(US$4.6 million) was outstanding, almost all of which is still considered
recoverable if the credit program continues. UCP also held cash balances
of about CFAF-740 million at CNCA, but owed Government about CFAF 2.4
billion borrowed under the first and second projects. Thus, while UCP is
theoretically solvent, this set of circumstances will have a negative



impact on VCP's cash flow in the latter years. These issues will be
addressed under the proposed project (paras. 55 and 56)..
Project Formulation and Rationale for IDA Involvement
27.       In March 1985, the Government formulated a medium term strategy
for the development of the rural sector. The Government's strategy calls
for the continuing promotion of coffee and cocoa production in view of
their major contribution to export earnings and farm incomes. The areas
planted under the two projects financed by the Association are about 16,600
ha of coffee and 2,600 ha of cocoa, a total of 19,200 ha. This represents
about 24% of the existing 80,000 ha of coffee and cocoa plantations, most
of which are low yielding, obsolescent plantations owned by relatively poor
snall farmers.  The present level of coffee production, including that from
the first two projects, is about 10,300 tons which is well below the
international quota for Togo of 18,000 tons. Thus, there is ample room for
expanding and marketing cc&fee production. There is no international quota
on cocoa. Improvements in cocoa production are justified on grounds that
the present level of production is well below the historical peak reached
in 1971/72 of 29,000 tons. Furthermore, most farmers producing coffee and
cocoa are small family operations with incomes substantially below the
average national per capita income. Thus, there continues to be a need to
promote greater productivity in tree crop production in the interest of
increasing rural incomes.
28.       During meetings held between the Government, CCCE, FAC and IDA in
early October 1985, there was general agreement thzt a third externally
financed project for coffee and cocoa development would be justified for
the reasons cited above. The momentum achieved under the second project
needs to be supported until SRCC and farme-s can self finance the develop-
ment of the ct,ffee-cocoa industry. Also, in view of the experience under
the first two projects, the focus should now be oriented towards more
growth in productivity rather than just in area expansion, given the
limited capacity of SRCC, emerging signs of Is-d constraints, and the
higher marginal benefits from intensification than from extensification.
with respect to t.he cocoa program, new replanting techniques adaptable to
cocoa farmers in the a-_aa need to be explored. However, high returns could
be achieved from continuing with an adequate maintenance program of exist-
ing cocoa trees. The proposed project fits IDA lending strategy in agri-
culture as it is aimed at supporting investments with high returns as well
as promoting exports and increasing ioodcrops production.
The Project Area
29.       The project would be located about 100 km from Lom6 in the
western part of Togo's Plateau region which is well suited to cocoa and
coffee cultivation (Maps No. 19605 and 19606). The project area is delim-
ited by four urban centers (KpalimE, Atakpame, Badou and Amlame) and covers
about 580,000 ha.  It has a population of 2about 330,000 with a density
varying from 30 to 100 inhabitants per km . The climate is tropical with a
bimodal rainfall pattern strongly influenced by the mountainous character-
istics of Lhe area. As a consequence, the project area enjoys generally
higher precipitation than the rest of the country, 1,400 a annually,
distributed ove- eight months.
30.       Topography and Soils.  The topography is heterogenous, encompass-
ing lowlands, plateaus and mountains. About two thirds of the cultivable



-9-
soils are considered suitable for both cocoa and coffee plantings. The
area can be divided into four zones. Zone.I consists of lowlands situated
in the eastern part-of the project area. With an altitude less than 300 m
and an average rainfall of about 1,300 mm, the area is predominantly a
coffee zone with low productivity, about 200 kg/ha. Zone II is situated
mainly in the plateau between 300 m to 500 m of altitude, with an average
rainfall of about 1,400 mm. The zone is predominantly a coffee producer
with an average yield of about 400 kg/ha. Some cocoa is also cultivated in
the south in the Rloco plains. Zone III consists of highlands to the west
of the project area. With an average yield about 650 kg/ha, it is the most
productive area for coffee production due to the high altitude above 500 a
and the favorable rainfall of about 1,500 im. The plain of Litime consists
of lowlands near the Ghanaian border. It has an altitude of 200 a and is
predominantly planted in cocoa. With an average rainfall of about
1,400 mm, it is well suited for cocoa cultivation.
31.       Land Tenure.  Traditionally, as in other parts of West Africa,
land rights have been vested in the village authority and admirnistered
under the tribal law. The development of cash crops and the limited land
in the project area have resulted tn a different pattern of land tenure.
Individual village members have acquired quasi-permanent land rights which
they may transfer to non-village members under rental or sharecropping
arrangements. This is a situation found rarely in other West African
countries. The arrangements and agreements between the landowners and the
tenants of coffee and cocoa farms vary according to locations.   They
appear to work well in the coffee growing areas, while in the Litime plain,
the cocoa growing area, thev seem to be a major factor hampering cocoa
development. As the understanding of the sharecropping practices in the
project area is still inadequate to arrive at appropriate solutions, the
Government would complete a study on this issue for which terms of
reference have been agreed, no later than December 31, 1987 and implement
the recommendations by June 30, 1988.
32.       Cultivation Practices.  About 136,600 ha (23% of the total area)
is under cultivation. Most of the farmers in the area practice both
cultivation of foodcrops and cash crops. About 50,000 ha are under
fooderops, 35,000 ha under Niaouli coffee, 16,000 ha under Robusta coffee,
and 35,000 ha under cocoa. Foodcrops consist of maize (40% of area under
foodcrops), rootcrcps (35%), rice (11%), groundnuts (5%), and cowpeas (5%).
The remainder is cultivated in sorgrium, potatoes, vegetables and bananas.
All work is done manually, with little use of fertilizer and improved
varieties.  Average yields are: 1 ton per ha of maize, 0.9 ton per ha of
rice, 0.7 ton per ha of groudnut, 0.5 ton per ha of cowpeas and 7 tons per
ha of rootcrops. The cashcrops ate mainly cofiee and cocoa with areas and
yields described above (paras. 22 and 23).
33.       Communications.  The project area has an excellent road connec-
tion with Lome and there also exists a railway connection between Lom& and
Kpalime. Within the project area, major rural centers are connected by
good tarmac roads. There is also an increasing number of rural roads that
were constructed by SRCC under the first two projects. However, there is a
need for additional feeder roads, which would be included under the
project, to reach remote villages in the plateaus of Dayes and Akposso, the
most productive area for coffee.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
34.       The project was prepared in June 1985 and appraised in February
1986. Negotiations were held in Washington in September 1986 with a
delegation led by His Excellency, Yaovi Adodo, Minister of Plan and
Industry. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 6220-TO ia being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data appear
in Annex III.
35.       The objective of the project would be to increase coffee and
cocoa production through improving the productivity of investments made
under the first and second projects and planting in new areas.
Simultaneously, the project would improve foodcrops productivity in the
project area in order to release labor for better cultivation of export
crops. Furthermore, the project would propose measures for a gradual
transfer of responsibilities to farmers in activities such as village
nurseries, distribution of inputs, and marketing. The proposed project
would be implemented over five years. Its main focus, agricultural
development, includes the provision of inputs and technical advice to
farmers for planting of 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha of cocoa,
maintenance of 16,600 ha of coffee planted under the first two projects,
and development of 22,000 ha of foodcrops (maize, rice, cowpeas and
groundauts). The Government would implement annual programs of pest
control over 35,000 ha of cocoa, while farmers would, by the fourth year of
the project, control blackpods on 3,000 ha of cocoa. An applied research
component would provide technical services, infrastructure, equipment and
vehicles to IRCC and IRAT, Togo's two main research organizations, for
carrying out short-term adaptive research in cocoa, coffee and foodcrops.
A feeder road program would help SRCC construct and subsequently maintain
250 km of new feeder roads and maintain 500 km of feeder roads constructed
under the first two projects. Institutional development includes the
establishment of about 250 farmers' associations for produce marketing.
input distribution, establishing village nurseries and conetructing village
stores, and support for SRCC through training and technical assistance.
Study will develop a future strategy for coffee and cocoa development and
examine land tenure practices.
Detailed Features
36.       Coffee and Cocoa Plantings.   Smallholders would carry out the
coffee planting program, about 7,500 ha over a five-year period, on land
cleared of old and unproductive plantations and fallows. The project would
finance the production and distribution of rooted cuttings, credit for
fertilizer and materials required for nurseries, and technical advice to
about 17,500 farmers. Each new participating farmer would be expected to
plant on the average 0.6 ha of coffee, while existing coffee growers would
plant an extra 0.3 ha. Participants would be selected according to
criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 49). The main improvement from the
second project would be the promotion of village nurseries and the increase
of planting density from the present 1,320 to 1.650 trees per ha.
37.       The project would continue to support a limited program of
on-farm trials of methods for replanting cocoa under interplanting and
through hedge planting. A limited program (50 ha), tested during the last
two years, needs to be expanded in order to produce meaningful results



- 11 -
(para. 25). These methods differ from the technique previously employed in
that cocoa trees would be planted in full sun but with windbreak, a
technique successfully tested in Cote d'Ivoire. Furthermore, they would
not require felling all old cocoa trees, a factor which discouraged farmers
from participating in the previous projects. The hedge planting method
would also allow foodcrops interplanting which would be attractive to both
owner and tenants. The planting target, about 450 ha over a three-year
period, is considered appropriate given the uncertainty surrounding the
suitability of the proposed replanting technology. A review would take
place at the end of the third project year (November 30, 1989) in order to
determine whether the cocoa program would continue. The review would
examine the level of farmer's response to the new replanting technique and
yield increase in the areas treated for pest attacks. If the technical
solutions were to be successfully tested and satisfactory progress has been
made on the sharecropping problems (para. 31), the planting program would
be increased by 1,550 ha during the last two years of the project. The
project would finance the production of cocoa hybrid plants, insecticide
treatments against pest damages to young cocoa plants, and other inputs
(fertilizer, moisture retainers), and technical advice to selected farmers
according to criteria acceptable to IDA.
38.       Coffee Maintenance Program.  Coffee trees planted under the first
two projects are now in production and there is a need to maintain these
trees through frequent weeding, regular application of ferttlizer and
adequate pruning to maintain young fruit bearing branches. About 7,700 ha
would be expected to be pruned during the project implementation period.
The project would finance technical advice and credit for fertilizer to
about li,000 farmers (about 45% of the total existing farmers) expected to
join the pruning program.
39.       Plant Protection Program.  The mirid control operation would be
undertaken by the plant protection service of SRCC, and the blackpod
control program by indilvidual farmers. The project would finance
equipment, vehicles, additional personnel, and insecticides needed to mount
the mirid control program over an area of 35,000 ha annually. Under the
previous project, the mirid control program, financed by OPAT, was not
carried out properly due to :Ladequate supervision and poor management.
Measures have been taken during the last two years to strengthen the
operation (para. 25). In addition, under the proposed project, Government
would cause SRCC to contract an iadependent inspector annually to certify
the effectiveness of such an operation. The project would also finance the
purchase of knapsack sprayers and fungicides to be sold to farmers for
blackpod treatment. The treatment method has been tested successfully in
400 ha under the second project. The operation woull be limaited to about
3,000 ha of owner exploited plantations which is the area of productive
existing cocoa (above 300 kg/ha) that farmers can afford to treat at the
present producer price. The swollen shoot disease which was a major
problem in the past (para. 23) has been brought under control and no
further measures need to be taken under the project. IRCC is mon±toring
the occurrence of this disease and control measures would be readily
reintroduced if the need arose.
40.       Fooderop Development.  Foodcrop production in the project area
would be intensified in order to release labor for better maintenance of
coffee and cocoa while maintaining an adequate supply of cereals to farm
families. The project would provide improved seeds (through seed multipli-
catiDn at the farm level), credit for fertilizer (along with credit for



- 12 -
coffee and cocoa planting) and technical advice to farmers. Priority would
be given to areas interplanted with coffee and cocoa. About 22,000 ha of
foodcrops would be developed during the project period and would consist of
maize: 9,860 ha, rice: 7,800 ha, groundnuts: 2,880 ha, and cowpeas: 1,500
ha.
41.       Applied Research.  The research program would continue to focus
on direct support for the national cocoa and coffee program, with an
increased emphasis on short term adaptive research. This would include:
for cocoa, introduction and selection of hybrid materials with resistance
to drought, blackpod and swollen shoot; determination of fertilizer re-
quirements, testing of replanting techniques for old degraded cocoa, and
refinement of measures to conLtrol blackpod diseases and mirid pests; for
coffee, testing of new Robusta clones for high yield and drought resis-
tance, fertilizer needs, maintenance techniques, and pruning cycles.  The
applied research program would be carried out by IRCC. The Government
would cause SRCC to arrange a yearly independent review of the IRCC re-
search program and budget. The project would finance additional housing
for IRCC in the Litime area, equipment, laboratory and experiment materi-
als, greenhouses, vehicles, short term consulting services, training
program for local staff, and operating costs to carry out the defined
research program during the five year project period. Fooderop research
would be carried out by DRA and IRAT aiming at developing a stable
intensified agricultural system with yield driven growth. Research would
focus on on-farm trials of improved varieties and technologies,
particularly in maize, t:he main staple foodcrop in the area. The project
would finance materials, equipment, and short-term consultants for DRA and
IRAT.
42.       Feeder Roads.  The project would finance vehicles and equipment
for the construction of 250 km of feeder roads and maintenance of those
constructed under the first two projects and those completed under the
project. The program would be carried out by the SRCC feeder road service
(para. 45) which is well organized and performed well in the past. The
standards would be the same as under the first two projects which have
proved to be appropriate. Total per km cost is estimated to be CFAF 2.6
million (US$7,000) for the road construction and rehabilitation and CFAF
100,000 (US$270) for the maintenance component.  Construction would be
mainly in new areas of zone II and III on the northern part where most of
the coffee plantings would take place.
43.       Farmers' Associations.  At present, SRCC staff is responsible for
supplying and distributing inputs to farmers. This has resulted in high
operating costs for SRCC and preempted the time that could be used by SRCC
staff for extension purposes. Some of the responsibilities would be
transferred to farmers through the establishments of farmers' associations
(FA). They would collect coffee and cocoa from the village for sales to
licensed agents; construct village stores for storage and sales of inputs
and produce; obtain credit for village investments such as hulling
machLnes; and promote group savings that could be used for lending to
members of the association. The project would ftnance the services of a
specialist to help set up about 250 FAs and train SRCC staff as well as
representatives of the associations in group formation and management. The
project would also finance limited materials (cement, steel bars, etc) for
construction of viJlage stores. FAs would provide labor and local
materials such as sand and gravel and construct the stores under the
general supervision and advice of-SRCC staff. To provide incentives for



- 13 -
forming groups, the Government has authorized FAs to market their coffee
and cocoa and to receive the sales commission attributed to primary market-
ing (para. 65).
44.       Institutional Support.  SRCC has been effective in implementing
the first two projects. It would continue to be responsible for the
agricultural development in the cocoa and coffee area with an expanded role
(para. 45). To support SRCC in its tasks, the project would finance 14
staff-years of technical assistance and 12 staff-months of short-term
consulting services, equipment and vehicles, construction of about 6
central and 12 section offices, 2 central stores, a training facility and a
strengthened program of local staff training.
Organization and Management
45.       Organizational Structure of SRCC.  In the past, the Government's
cocoa and coffee production policy has been to expand areas and SRCC has
had as its principal functions the production and distribution of planting
materials. To meet the objectives where SRCC would function to increase
output from both improvements of existing plantations and new plantings,
SRCC's responsibilities would be strengthened and expanded in the'following
areas:
(a) promoting planting and replanting of coffee and cocoa, and
selecting participants;
(b) assisting farmers to prepare farm plans and loan applications;
(c) assisting farmers in establishing village nurseries and
supervision of the operation;
(d) assisting farmers in establishing and managing village stores
for distribution of inputs, marketing of products and other
economic purposes;
(e)  procuring inputs and implements for distribution to FAs
and to individual farmers;
(f) providing technical advice to farmers to improve productivity
of existing investments in coffee and cocoa;
(g) executing and maintaining the project's infrastructure
development program; and
(h) working in close contact with IRCC, DRA and IRAT so as to
remain up-to-date on progress and results of applied research on
one hand, and to provide a constant feedback of field problems
deserving research attention on the other hand.
46.       SRCC is administered by a board of directors whose members
include representatives of: the Minister of Rural Development (President);
the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Commerce and Industry, Rural Equip-
ment, Transport, Foreign Affairs, and Interior; the Directors of OPAT, CNCA
and three representatives/coffee and cocoa growers. The overall responsi-
bility for project execution would continue to be vested in the newly
appointed General Manager, who is a Togolese. He would be assisted by an
internationally recruited Technical Advisor.



- 14 -
47.       The General Manager would supervise SRCC's main activities
executed by four departments: (a) the -Agricultural Operations Department is
responsible for extension services, production and supervison of planting
materials, supply and distribution of inputs, training and supervising
farmers' associations and plant protection; (b) the Training Department is
responsible for organizing racycling and updated monthly training for
extension workers as well as the preparation of an overall training plan
for SRCC staff; (c) the Civil Works Department is responsible for road
construction and maintenance, building maintenance, stocks management and
vehicle maintenance; and (d) the Administration and Finance Department is
responsible for project accounting, procurement, and personnel. The
positions of General Manager, the Technical Advisor, and Departmental heads
would be staffed at all time with qualified and experienced personnel
acceptable to IDA. To accomodate the expanded functions outlined above, as
well as new planting activities, 24 additional Togolese staff would be
recruited during the first year of the project. They would reinforce
technical activities at headquarters, provide administrative support to
FAs, improve training and equipment maintenance.
48.       Technical Assistance.  The project would finance 14 staff-years
of technical assistance. A new Technical Advisor to assist the General
Manager in project execution would be employed for a period of five years.
A newly recruited specialist on farmers' associations would be appointed
for a period of three years, to be extended for another two years if deemed
necessary. Job descriptions have been agreed upon and suitable candidates
are now being screened. Their appointment would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The existing expatriate staff would continue their services
under the proposed project: the Director of Agricultural Operations until
mid-1989, the Director of Training until end-1987, and the Director of
Civil Works until mid-1987. Qualified local staff to take over the
positions of the Director of Agricultural Operations, Director of Training,
and Director of Civil Works has beeen indentified and would be sent abroad
for management training during the first year of the project. They would
assume the positions vacated by the expatriates and would stay with the
project for at least five years.
49.       Criteria for Selecting Farmers.  Before an interested farmer
could participate in the coffee cocoa planting program, SRCC extension
service would have to be satisfied that he has land of suitable quality for
coffee and cocoa, and that he is capable of properly establishing and
maintaning his plantation, including the required manpower. A family with
about 2.4 active members would be qualified for new planting of about 0.6
ha. Existing coffee growers who have about 0.9 ha coffee would be limited
to new planting of 0.3 ha in order to ensure proper maintenance of both
existing and new plantings with family labor. Farmers would be required to
form informal groups of at least five members with a total area of at least
three ha to facilitate delivery of the technical package consisting of
extension advice, the supply of planting material, fertilizer, and pest
control, and this has worked satisfactorily in the past. For cocoa,
interested farmers would have to be present and work on the farms as under
the present sharecropping practice (para 31). tenants receive inadequate
remuneration to have an incentive to participate in the project.
50.       Credit.  As under the first and second projects, credit would be
awarded to farmers to finance establishment and maintenance of coffee and
cocoa plantations. Measures would be implemented under the project to
improve the poor financial performance of the credit system (para. 26).
First, better selection of farmers, based in part on availability of



- 15 -
household labor, would allow the elimination of cash payments for hiring
labor, thus reducing the credit amount. Second, cocoa and coffee buyers',
would be held responsible for credit recovery (para. 65). Third, farmers
would be encouraged to constitute formal associations for marketing,
distribution of inputs, and for savings (para. 43). 'The associations would
also be used to improve credit recovery as members would exercise pressure
on one another to repay loans. Such a system has worked well in a few
villages where SRCC and UCP have set up pilot groups. Finally, the
Government would assure that SRCC and UCP did not award new credit (neither
seasonal nor developmental) to farmers who were in arrears. These measures
are expected to gradually raise recovery rates from the present level of
55% to 90% by 1991.
51.       Financing arrangements between Government and the UCP would also
be modified in order to preserve UCP's financial viability during the
period when credit recovery is improving.   UC? was committed to begin
repaying loans taken from Government under the first and second projects to
finance farmer credit, in the first year of the proposed project. The low
rate of credit recovery had not yielded sufficient funds to repay these
loans. As a result in the absence of appropriate actions UCP's reserves
would have been eliminated and its cumulative cash flow would have been
negative from 1987 onwards. Raising interest rates on new credit was not
seen as a viable solution to UCP's cash flow problem as a rate of 25% would
have been required to cover outstanding obligations and maintain the new
credit program. This rate, given current producer cocoa and coffee prices,
would have resulted in debt service charges of between 25% and 45% of
farmers' cash incomes which would have increased the risks to further
credit recovery. Therefore, the Government has decided to maintain present
interest rates of 8.5% which are higher than expected inflation of 8%, and
only slightly lower than commercial rates of 9.5% (para. 19). OPAT would
continue to grant UCP 2.5% of the volume of credit awarded.   In addition
the Government has transformed the CFAF 2.4 billion in longer term loans to
TICP into grants.
52.       Strenthening of Extension Services.  The extension agents1 (EAs)
activities are thinly spread between extension work, distribution of
inputs, allocation of credit and credit recovery, the collection of
subtanstial amounts of data and the preparation of reports. The project
would attempt to improve the extension service as a first step in the Agou
area (about 1,300 ha). The work program of the EAs would be more struc-
tured and organized on a fortnightly basis, with a fixed date to visit
groups of farmers. The EAs would receive fortnightly training where the
relevant theme for that particular period would be discussed. Once the
method is proven to bring a significant improvement to extension services,
it would be replicated throughout the project area. While these
improvements are being undertaken in the cocoa/coffee production zone, a
program to strengthen extension services throughout the country, following
the same principles, is being planned.
53.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A Monitoring and Evaluation (ME) unit
was established in 1983 to carry out ad hoc studies and special evaluations



- 16 -
which have been useful under the second project. This role would be
expanded under the proposed project. The-ME would systematically collect
statistics that would allow ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of projects;
monitor and evaluate farmer's response to various technical recommendations
developed under the project and-changes in incentives; and conduct specific
studies at project management's request. Routine monitoring of project
activities would remain the responsibility of various sections, which has
worked well under the second project.
54.       Present Status of the Project.  All implementing agencies are
already in existence, and current facilities are adequate for the start-up
of the project. Supplementary offices required for additional staff would
be constructed prior to Credit effectiveness with financing from a Project
PrepErattLoi Facility Advance (para. 58).  Recruitments of additional
international staff would also begin prior to Credit effectiveness. Orders
for the agricultural development program (i.e. planting materials,
fertilizer, seeds) are being placed which should permit a quick project
start-up in 1987.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       Cost Estimates.  The estimated cost of the project is US$33.2
million equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to US$1.1 million.
The estimated foreign cost component is US$19.9 mill±on representing 60% of
the total costs. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed for
operating costs other than staff expenses and production inputs, and 15% on
building and road construction. Price contingencies have been included on
local costs at 8% and on foreign costs at 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7% for
1989 and l990, and 4% for 1991.
56.       Financing Plan.  The project would be financed by IDA, CCCE, FAC,
Government and UCP. All external financing would be under parallel ar-
rangements. The proposed IDA credit of US$17.9 million would finance 54%
of the total project costs, including US$6.6 million equivalent local costs
financing. The remaining external financing would be by CCCE (US$5.7
million equivalent), and FAC (US$2.9 million equivalent). The Government
would finance part of wages and salaries and equipment and operations costs
for the mirid control program, and UCP would finance the credit requirement
(US$4.1 million) under the project out of the repayments from outstanding
loans, and grants from the Government (para. 51). Effectiveness of
financing agreements between the Government and the CCCE and the FAC would
be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. Proceeds of the IDA credit, the
CCCE loan, and FAC grant would be passed on by GC -rnment to SRCC, a
government entity, on a grant basis.
57.       Recurrent Cost and Government Financing.  Under the proposed
project, the Togolese contribution would amount to 20% of the total project
cost. External financing would cover the operating costs, and 58% of the
personnel cost (about US$4.6 million) on a declining scale during the
project implementation period. This is justified given the tight budgetary
situation in Togo and the increase in the Government's contribution to the
development of cocoa and coffee sector (which was 13% under the second
project). In the past, Government's financing of the project has not been
a regular item in the annual budget. The inscription of the Government's



- 17 -
contribution to the project in the 1987 annual budget to be passed into law
in December 1986, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness, and the
Government would be expected to maintain an annual budget item for SRCC
thereafter.
58.       PPF Advance.  To allow for a smooth transition of activities from
the second project and a quick start in the third project, a Project
Preparation Facility Advance of US$1.5 million has been granted to finance
technical assistance, operating costs, training, research, and other
start-up activities for the project.
59.       Procurement.  Vehicler, technical assistance and consultants and
incremental agricultural inputs, for which IDA funds are to be allocated
would be procured under ICB. A small program for building housing, village
stores and basic infrastructure is scattered geographically and not
suitable for ICB. It would be procured through LCB procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Additional heavy equipment, light vehicles and some
trucks would be financed by CCCE as the existing fleet at SRCC is of French
origin. Road construction and maintenance would be carried out by SRCC on
force account. The highly efficient and cost conscious road construction
division has been tested under the first two projects and has demonstrated
its ability to meet appraisal targets, within budget, in a timely manner.
All procurement decisions in excess of US$100,000 would be submitted for
IDA's prior review, which would likely amount to 80Z of the value of
contracts for vehicles and services. Details of procurement arrangements
are in Annex IV.
60.       Disbursements.  Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed
over a period of six years. The IDA Credit would be disbursed for: (i)
100% of the estimated cost of buildings; (ii) 100% of the costs of vehicles
and equipment; (iii) 100% of the costs of technical assistance and
consultant services; (iv) 100% of the costs of pesticides; and (v) 100% of
the operating costs net of wages and salaries. Personnel cost would be
disbursed at 93% for 1987, 90% for 1988, 75% for 1989, 50% for 1990 and 25Z
for 1991. After refinancing of the PPF advance of US$L.5 million, an
amount of US$800,000 would remain unallocated. Disbursements against
operating costs, except for spare parts, fuel and lubricants for
construction and maintenance of feeder roads (about US$3.2 million
equivalent) would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs), under
normal IDA procedures.
61.       To ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project, the
Government would: (a) cause SRCC and CNCA/UCP to continue maintaining in a
banking institution acceptable to IDA, separate accounts for project
expenditures; (b) make an initial payment of CFAF 150 million (about
US$429,000) to the SRCC account prior to Credit effectiveness; and (c)
replenish the SRCC account in quarterly installments on the basis of SRCC's
annual budgets. In addition, a Special Account equivalent to US$200,000
would be established in a banking institution acceptable to IDA thrDugh a
withdrawal of this amount from the IDA Credit. This would be used to
purchase smaller items and materials, and for the intermittent financing of
short term consultant services.
62.       Accounts, Audit and Reporting Requirements.  As under the first
two projects, SRCC and CNCA/UCP would maintain separate sets of accounts.
The research institutions, IRCC, DRA and IRAT, would continue to maintain



- 18 -
separate accounting records. They would also present annual budgets to
SRCC for negotiation of annual contracts for implementation of thelr
respective research programs.
63.       As is current practice, both SRCC and CNCA/UCP would prepare
annual budgets for project Implementation. Detailed budgets would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment not later than two months prior to
the beginnlng of the Implementation year. Annual audits of SRCC and
CNCA/UCP would continue to be performed by independent firms acceptable to
IDA. Audit reports would contain a long form report on the project
accounts and a detailed report on internal control.  The auditor would be
required to express an opinion on the reliability of SOE procedures, the
legitimacy of expenditures utilizing the IDA special account, and the
utilization of goods and services financed under the project.  Audited
accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than six months folloving the
end of SRCC and CNCA/UCP financial year.
Production, Marketing and Pricing
64.       Proaiction.  By 1995, the project would increase coffee and cocoa
production by 6,000 tons and 5,500 tons, respectively. Together with the
existing trees and those planted under the first and second projects, the
level of production would reach 16,600 tons of coffee and 11,000 tons of
cocoa. Total coffee production vould be below the ICO quota for Togo
(about 20.000 tons) by 1995. The level of cocoa production would be below
the historical peak production of 29,000 tons. Thus. there would not be
problems in marketing and exporting coffee and cocoa production as a result
of the project. This is also consistent with the Association's policy for
lending in coffee and cocoa projects.
65.       Marketing.  Primary marketing of cocoa and coffee is in the hands
of licensed traders, the largest of which is a mixed Government/private
firm (Soci6te Togolaise pour le Commerce des Produits, STCP) with a 70%
market share. All primary marketing terminates with sales of cocoa and
coffee to OPAT which is responsible for Togo's coffee and cocoa exports
(para. 20). Licensed traders maintain a number of sub-buyers throughout
the cocoa/coffee production area who receive products from farmers. The
situation is not effectively controlled, however, with the result that
there may be several sub-buyers in each village. This does not create
competition since commissions for licensed traders and sub-buyers are
negotiated periodically as part of the cocoa/coffee pr-icing schedule
(baremes).  OPAT and CNCA have also prefinanced the buying activities of
STCP and other licensed traders. The traders in turn have prefinanced the
sub-buyers. Following recent studies of OPAT and CNCA operations pinpoint-
ing the heavy losses in prefinancing licensed buyers, OPAT and CNCA have
discontinued these transactions. The Government has issued a decree to
regulate the marketing operations of licensed buyers and sub-buyers to
improve marketing efficiency, to authorize farmers' associations to market
their produce, and to assign new responsibilities for credit recovery to
the buyers.
66.       Pricing.  Prices paid to coffee and cocoa farmers over the past
22 years averaged 36% and 402 of the realized export value of the respec-
tive crops in current terms.  In real terms, they have declined signifi-
cantly since 1981, reaching 25% of the export value in 1984/85. The
dialogue concerning the effect of producer prices on farmers' incentives
are being carried out between the Government and IDA under the Second
Structural Adjustment Program, in which the Government agreed to raise



- 19 -
prices for 1985/86 and 1986/87 to increase'rural incomes In real terms. In
1985/86, producer prices for coffee and cocoa were raised by 16% and 10%,
respectively. The Government has recently agreed to raise the respective
prices by 10% and 9% for 1986/87. Under the project, the Government would
be asked to agree to the annual review of the producer prices for coffee
and cocoa and adjust them, if needed, prior to June 30 after consultation
with IDA. The annual review would be based on the following factors:
limits imposed by world market conditions; the level of expected production
increases; demands on OPAT by the national treasury; and the incentive for
adequate maintenance of existing coffee and cocoa investments.
Benefits and Risks
67.       Project Benefits.  The project's primary benefit would be the
Increases in production and exports of coffee and cocoa, and thus in
foreign exchange earnings. Project-induced net annual foreign exchange
earnings are estimated to rise to about US$20 million in 1986 prices
annually by 1995. The planting program would benefit about 17,500 families
in the coffee and cocoa areas. The coffee maintenance program would
provide needed services to about 23,000 farm families who participated
under the first and second projects, and the plant protection program would
increase incomes for about 7,000 cocoa growers. The average per capita
income for farmers in the project area would rise from about CFAF 23,000
(US$65) at present to CFAF 60,000 (US$170) at full development, putting
farmers to the level of about 60% of the national average, about the same
level of the income of a low grade civil servant.
68.       Financial Impact on Government's Revenues.  The financial impact
of the proposed project on the Government' s revenues is dependent on the
rate at which the Government continues to raise producer prices, as well as
on the actual development of world market prices. Under the assumption
that the Government would at least maintain the value of producer price for
coffee and cocoa in real terms, and using the Association's projections on
world prices, total coffee and cocoa exports would generate government
revenues of about CPAP 6.1 billion (US$17.4 million), CFAF 6.5 billion
(US$18.6 million) and CFA? 9.1 billion (US$26 million) in 1987, 1990 and
1995, respectively in 1986 prices. The project would account for about 9%
and 40% of coffee and cocoa export earnings in 1990 and 1995. Over the
next ten years, prior to payments of debt service, the discounted value of
the expenditures as a result of the project (at 10) would amount to 70% of
the revenues.
69.       Under the project, the Government would increasingly finance the
recurrent cost of SRCC and of project administration. Given the level of
earnings resulting from the cocoa/coffee exports, there should not be
difficulty in continuing to finance these costs after project completion.
The relevant question is whether further development of coffee and cocoa
could be self-financed by the Government (including OPAT, CNCA) and farmers
after the completion of the proposed project. This also depends on the
results of the project, and whether the Government would pursue an
intensification or extensification policy. To assist the Government in
planning a future strategy for the sector, the project would finance a
study which would be completed by December 31, 1990.
70.       Environmental Impact.  All pesticide usage under the project will
follow the recommendations of the Direction-de la Protection des V6g6taux
(DPV) in the Ministry of Rural Development. All pesticides selected will



- ct. -
be tested by DPV for efficacy and safety under local conditions, including
determination of pesticide residue levels resulting from use of the product
at the rec6mmendud dosage rates and frequencies. The Government would
cause SRCC to select, handle and use the pesticides under the project in
accordance with the Association's guidelines.
71.       Economic Rate of Raturn.  Using a project life of about 25 years
and incremental benefits from the planting program and the plant protection
program, the estimated economic rate of return for the project is 32Z.
Benefits from the maintenanco program for coffee has not been included as
It Is difficult to separate the effect of the third project from the
previous two projects in the existing area. The project would become
marginal at 10% only if benefits would be reduced by 56% and costs
increased bv 138%, or under the scenario of a combination of a yield
decrease by 25%, labour and inputs costs increase by 25%. project costs up
by 30% and benefits are delayed by two years. This is not likely to occur
given the experience in implementing the previous projects.
72.       Project Risks.  Since this project is built up from experiences
gained from the previous projects, the risk of failure is limited. The
main project risk would be the cocoa replanting progranm component
(accounting for 2% of the estimated project costs) whicb was beset with
technical and financial difficulties under the first two projects. To
limit the risk, an initial planting program (about 450 ha) would be
implemented over two years taking into account the lessons from the earlier
two projects and successful trials of new techniques elsewhere in West
Africa. A joint Government/IDA review of technical progress and farmers'
acceptance of the cocoa program would take place during the third year of
the project to determine whether it should continue and on what scale.
Another risk is the viability of the credit unit (UCP), given the poor
recovery performance under the first two projects.   Specific project
features, including better selection of farmers, and an increased role of
coffee and cocoa marketing agents and farmers' associations in credit
recovery would improve the recovery performance and therefore maintain
credit availability to farmers.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed project would comply with the
Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington D.C.
November    , 1986
Attachments.



- 21 -                                Annex I
Page I of 2
ECOWnMITC  TND ICATORS
=5 mAn(NAL PRMLCr IN 1984          LISS millon       X       kual rate of  cth (  current prices)
1978--84
GNP at market prics                   624.0          92.7           6.4
MP at nfarkt prices                   673.0         100.0           7.6
Cross darsgtic Lmrasints              157.8          23.4          -7.4
Gross dcustic savins                   96.3          14.3          -2.9
Qnrut acount balance                  -32.9          -4.9
1xpors (G + .NS)                      236.2          35.1           7.6
Tzports (C + NFS)                     .97.7          44.2           1.6
auin'r. L.AcM FRWcE AND PRMCrrTrY IN 1984
Vale w1ded         Labor forre        Value adde  per wnii
tSS nrlUum    X      _                    LISS  2 oF averas
Agriculeue                                    187.6      32.1    850        77.2      220.7      41.5
Idiustry, camt= c & pi lU± works              126.1      21.6     31         2.8    4067.7    765.6
Governnat                                      59.3      10.1      39        3.5    1520.5    286.2
Ccwurce arpd trzi t                           167.7      28.7      90        8.2    l863.3    350.7
Ocher services                                 43.7       7.5     90         8.2      485.5      91.4
CDP  fc factor csts                    584.4    100.0   1100        100.0      531.3    100.0
GOVERO    F:DqAE                                CFA biUlicn          % of CDP
1979     1984      1979      1984
Re4venu                                        58.2     88.6       27.4     30.1
Ta receipts                                  49.9      67.4      23.5     22.9
Other                                         8.3      21.2       3.9      7.2
Mqwnditurns                                    94.0    109.9      44.3      37.4
current budget                               46.5      76.5      21.9     26.0
Envsoim budget                              40.4      33.4      19.0      11.4
Odter                                         7.1      -         3.3       -
Sp=:ial ac:ults                                 -  
,An     budgets                                          -                     -
OveraU deficits                               -35.8    -21.3    -16.9       -7.2
Mm iten:
GDP Current prlces                          212.1    294.1       -         -
EY. CREDTr AND PRICES                 1977   1978    1979   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984
(Billion CFAF outstamling end petid)
!'bey quasd i  xne                       48.1   64.9   69.2   80.0  107.0  124.7  130.1  154.1
BLik credit to publlc sector              1.8    fi.7    6.6   11.9   20.7   20.3   22.3   22.8
Bank credit to private sector            44.2   51.D   57.;1  65.2   62.7   68.0   65.3   63.9
(Perc-mmage or indec ruraer)
Money ad quasi =NWey as X of GDP         25.1   32.4   32.6   33.9   40.9   46.2   46.2   52.4
consmm price inke  (1978 - :00) 1/       99.6  100.0  107.5  120.8  145.7  160.7  176.3
Auwal percentage change In:
Consumr price  ?inx                    72.4    0.4    7.5    12.4   20.6   10.3    9.7
Bm* credit to public seczr             50.0  244.4    6.4   80.3   73.9   -1.9   -1.5          2.'
Bank credit to private sector          37.3   15.4   12.0    14.:   -3.8    8.4   -4.0   -2.2
imzk  averag



-2 -                           Annex 
Page 2 of 2
TRADE PAkI'S Alt CAPITAL R158
Bgta  OF PAMYS                                  1980      L98(  1962         1983      In
hponus ( WG    S MS)                            543.8    380.5    336.9    274.5    279.9
Ixwru (CG .. n                                 -692.8   -529.2   -452.2   -337.7   -321.1
R    eawr   gap CdA( t a -)                    -149.D   -148.7   -115.3    -63.2    -41.2
Itzeint prji tu (w)                             -55.8    -49.3    -49.6    -56.7    -46.5
'  z           rim                                6.1      11.0      12.2     13.1      16.0
Ott's fact  pycu  (no)                           11.4      33.1       7.9    -13.4    46.0
.mt        r                                     36.4      29.5      17.4     23.9      24.5
Balnm  n       n  acu                          -i1o.9   -124.4   -117.4    -96.3    -5.2
Dizwc for4p  brwainws                            14.2      18.4      12.2     13.1       9.2
Nat £1T bormdn                                   36.4      43.8    -17.3      54.0      40.0
CqMitaL p                                        47.3      29.4      21.3     18.4      32.0
(>J  capitgl (.,t)                               22.2      78.5     26.8      29.9      18.5
Oda itw  n.. .i.                                 44.0      43.4    110.1      34.2       3.5
alr.s In rs     s (crm    -)                    -13.2    -89.0    -35.6    -14.9    -38.0
No nrua_   (anyer) 1/                            92.8    160.1    171.6    189.2    214.9
MlCTISE         3  (avuera  1980-84 reo )
1iss uiat14
99.0               46.1
Cooa beau                                        29.7                13.9
Cofft                                            16.4                7.6
Cottmm                                           14.0                6.5
Al1 oher  ±c1aria                                55.2               25.8
Total                                    214.3               100.0
:3AL DEBT, ecber 31. 1984                    5S mLl
Public debt (disbed) ircl. parztd               732.3
Nonpartcd privce dbC                              -
Toal  =tzcauding ad disbhu.d                    732.3
Err SERICE RATIO FM 1984 2/                                 EO{CF RATE (CFA par USS)
-e cencPg                 Year      Period aweraw        Bd of perid
Public debt. incl. guaratesd 3/    31.2                   1977          245.67               235.25
Noe-uarnnmd private debt              -                    1978          225.64              209.00
Total ctsaating a-d dishned         31.2                   1979          212.72              101.00
1980         211.30               225.80
I981         Z71.73               287.40
[982         328.62               336.25
1983         381.07               417.38
1984         437.00               479.60
MR/DALEDDl,  September 30, 1986 (US$ millior.)                   am   m/ MA
Qitacadlag ad dishursd                                           30.1              189 .2
LltMsburssd                                                        5.5             102.4
Ouitsaing ftr.hdtig uldishrsed                                    35.6             291.6
1/ Net foreip assets of the Cai-.-l Ba*i
2/ Debt smie  - peem of  X (C + NES)
3/ After debt machruJ4z
ri S53.0 of dhS3.5 tlion CIhfl lozn to Top ad S49.5 miUlin to CltW with tn pasts of Gta.
- Ivory Coet ad Tqp



- 23 -
Annex II
page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A.    Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1986)
Credit No.     Yeor   Borrower       Purpose                        Bank   IDA 3/   Undlib.  /
Eleven credits and one loan fully dIsburned                          3.60   121.80       -
810-TO         1976      Togo       Feeder Roads                      -      6.80    0.07
946-TO        1979       Togo       Cocoa/Coffee Dovelopmnt II        -     14.00    4.00
1018-TO         1979      Togo       First Educetion                  -      11.00    0.79
1139-TO        1981       Togo       Fourth Highwey ?J                -      20.0    6 .88
1169-TO         1981      ToCo       Phosphate Engineering            -       6.70    3.14
1270-TO         1982      Togo       Technical Assiotance II           -      3.50    0.06
1302-TO         1983      Togo       Second Rural D-v. Cotton Areas  -       23.50   11.38
132B-TO         1983      Togo       Restructuring Project CIMAO       -      6.70    6.43
1354-TO        1983       Togo       Loa  Water Supply                 -     12.00    9.76
1508-TO        1984       Togo       Nangbeto Hydroelectric Project  -       165.8    12.02
1658-TO        1986       Toga       Education Improvemnt Project   -        12.40   14.91
1605-TO        1986       Tooo       Third Technical Assistance        -      5.20    6.64
A-2-TO          198a      Togo       Second Structural Adjustment    -       15.50    6.50
1302-1-TO       1986      Togo       Second Rural Dev. Cotton          -      5.90    7.64
TOTAL                                     3.60   273.58   88.22
Of which has been paid                    1.55     0.73
Total now outstanding                     1.95   272.86
Amount sold                                         -        -
Of which has been repaid                    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA            1. 9    272.86
Total undisburosd                           -       -      88.22
3/   Prior to exchunge adjustment.
O/   Beginning with Credit 1139-TO, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing Rights.
The dollar amounts in thes columns represent the dollar equivalent at the time of
credit negotiations for the IDA amounts end the dollar equivalent as of September 30,
1988 for the undisburood amounts.  (I SDR = USS1.213420)                                -



- 24 -
Annerx II
page 2 of 2
B.   Stateet of Bonk Loan Guaranteed by Ghana, Cit. d'!volre and Te
Loon or
Credit No.     Year  Borrowr        Purpoas                        Bank   IDA       Undleb.
1296-WAF       1978    CINAD        Regional Clinker               49.60   -
Repaid                                      21.93   -          -
Now outstanding                             27.57   -
C.  Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to:
Benin, Buriclnm Faso, Cito d'Ivolre, Niger, Senegal, Togo
Credit No.     Year  Borrower       Purpose                        Bank  IDA  / Undisb  j
969-WAF       1960    WAD          Project Preparation Credit       -       3.0     1.43
1331-WAP       iS    BOAAD         Regional Developmnt              -      14.9    12.73
2242-WAF       1963    BOAt         Regional Development            8.16      -      6.56
TOTAL                                     6.10   17.0    19.71
Repaid                                      -       -       -
Now outstanding                           8.10   19.77
j/    Prior to exchange adjuatant



- 25 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAY DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Tine taken to prepare project:      four months
(b)  Project prepared by                 FAOICP
(c)  Appraisal Mission             .    February 1986
(d)  Negotiations                  .     September 1986
(e)  Credit Effectiveness                July 1987
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
A Project Preparation Facility Advance (US$1.5 million) has been
requested to ensure a smooth transition of the activities under the second
project which is expected to be completed in December 1986 and those under
the proposed project.
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)  Appointments of the Technical Advisor and the Specialist on
farmers' associations (para. 48).
(b) Effectiveness of financing agreements between the Government and
the CCCE and FAC (para. 56).
(c)  Inscription in the Government's 1987 annual budget of its
financing of the project (para. 57).
(d)  The Government would make an initial payment of CFAF 150 million
to the SRCC account (para. 61).
Other Conditions
(a)  The Government would complete a land tenure study and
sharecropping arrangements no later than December 31, 1987 and
would implement the recommendations by June 30, 1988 (para 31).
(b)  The Government would cause SRCC to contract an independent
inspector annually to certify the effectiveness of the *irid
control program (para. 37).
(c)  The Government would review jointly with IDA no later than
November 30, 1989, the results of the cocoa program (para. 37).



- 26 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government would cause SRCC to arrange an annual independent
review of IRCC research program and budget (para. 41).
(e) The Government would cause SRCC and UCP to refuse new credits to
farmers who are in default (para. 50).
(f) The Government would cause OPAT to reschedule its short term
credit to UCP for the purchasing of fertilizer when credit
recovery is less than the anticipated rate (para. 51).
(g) The Government would cause OPAT to continue granting UCP 2.5% of
the volume of the credit awarded (para. 51).
(h) The Government would carry out annual reviews of the producer
prices for coffee and cocoa and adjust them if necessary prior to
April 1 in consultation with IDA (para. 66).
(i) The Government would cause SRCC to select, handle and use the
pesticides in accordance with the Association's guidelines (para.
70).



-               - 27-
Annex IV
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE AND COCOA DEVELOPMENT
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total
Procurement Element                      Procurement Method             Costs
ICB      LCB      Other      N.A.
Buildings, Housing and             ...      0.3       0.5 a/   ...        0.8
Basic Infrastructure                       (0.3)                         (0.3)
Equipment                                   ...       1.1 b/   ...        1.1
Vehicles                           3.0      ...        1.6 c/   ...       4.6
(3.0)                                  (3.0)
Tech. Assistance/Consultants       1.3      ...        1.6 d/   ...       2.9
(1.3)                                  (1.3)
Incremental Agricultural Inputs  3.4        .0. 0.3 e/   2.4 f/    6.1
(3.4)                                  (3.4)
Wages and Salaries                 ...      ...        ...      8.0 f/    8.0
(4.2)     (4.2)
Operating Costs                    ...      ...       ...       9.7       9.7
(5.7)     (5.7)
Total                              7.7      0.3       5.1      20.1      33.2
(7.7)    (0.3)               (9.9)    (17.9)
a_ Constructed by farmers
bl According to CCCE, FAC and UCP procedares
c/ Light and some heavy vehicles according to CCCE procedures
dl According to CCCE and FAC procedures
ef Fungicides to be procured after CCCE procedures
ff Financed by Government and UCP



-28-                       _
MAP SECTION



IBRD 19606
B U R K I N A /
----_F  A S    /
TOGO
SAVAE3  {THIRD COFFEE-COCOA I
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT!
'7  I MANGO  .                PROJECT AREA
T~~~~
C)                   N                     tD      N'
rlv ?szevnD~~~~~~~~~~~~t Af
I                        K  ,    
POLECTAREA
- COAFE
LATERITE ROADS                     BII
---RAIL WAYSThI 
REGI  CAPITALS                 b'   f              
RtGIOt ODUNDARIES
*NATIONAL CA*nfAL
IN -RTERNATIONAL ROUNnARIES
p-tm , ,¾OK 
IrAKPAME
---- 20     -S "a E
WSR APEAMLA-MAPE
'-o -w rwdv*o                          0T       U      DU 
-.aate=      r                TADS        Gi I                         I
--      EPT  POAD lb  blmamgt                                        l 
REGION BOUNW'"lE5 ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ABLGB
~s-- -,=-  -  
\ A
llIf.' .P                          VI' 'KE 
AALANIJCDAYE OCIM  fcuif                  M
APRIL 1986



IBRD 19605
___                                                  -_X___              GHANA         \BENIN
%,~~~~~~~~~~~f- - ,. ~-:    . 9
¢ s_-; ___ . C ~~~~~~~~~~~~TOGOi
Are *Shove
Q7r <; <<                                                                        [LiKOUG IO,
12    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
3   \    A        M        E    r      m AKP~~~~~~~~~~AAKAME                                      3]
t\\KPETE  RENA        ,      }            
\q>\Nm  ,  6t,   - -TOGO
THIRD COFFEE-COCOA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SRCC EXTENSION SECTORS
Administrathie District No  Sector             Crap
<   !   tC    g>Xt   ,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(icConscriptio)
KLOTO       01      KPAIME NORTH           C.K
02     KPAIJME SOLrrH          C,K
03     AGOUJ                   Ok
/0     KPELF                   C.K
(:)  4   k y   SAOETA,                              05     DAYES                   c
r   y                           ^ffi<'s~~~~~~~~~~~KPSSO  0e  AMUWME         C
07     AKEBOU                  C
10     AKPOSSO                 C
_>>;11  AKPOSSO) NOR1H        C    70°
12     GORE                    C
UIIME    ° f        TOMEGBEKPPE-BENA       K
09     BADOU                   K
rc                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Predomrnrtly Cacoao
Predomrinontly Cattee
X  SMS$m   Coffee ond Cocoa
A    Cocoa Seed Gardien (Zazokondjl)
*    Coffee Nursencs (SPCCJFCC)
XM SRCC Headarters
§ . t   \                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Torrnoc P2ocds
t;it    \                             ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~Dirt 17cis
't       W°                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ~~~~Sector Limits
°._________ _                                                         -. - 3    International Boundoaes
KILOMETERS
MAY 1986






