Documsnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rpowt No. 12538
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE/COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
(CREDIT 1745-TO)
NOVEMBER 29, 1993
hI CRF(GRAPiH I CS
RepDrt No%
Type: PCF
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ondy in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank- authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC Or TOGO
THIRD COPFEEICOCOA DEVELOPEENT PROJECT
(Credit 1745-TO)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 50         =   1 French Franc (Fixed Parity)
CFAF 350            US$1 (Staff Appraisal Report, 1986)
CFAF 296            US$l (average, 1987-91)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE        -     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CNCA        -     Caisse Nationale de Credit
(National Agricultural Credit Agency)
EEC         -     European Economic Community
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FAC         -     Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
PAO         -     United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization
GAV         -     Groupement Agricole Villageois
iRAT        -     Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
des Cultures Vivrieres (Food crop research institute)
IRCC        -     Institut de Recherche sur le Cafe et Cacao
OED         -     Operations Evaluation Department
OPAT        -     Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo
(Agricultural Commodities Marketing Agency)
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PCU         -     Project Credit Unit
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SRCC        -     Societe Nationale pour la Renovation et le Developpement
de la Cacaoyere et de la Cafeiere Togolaise
(National Cocoa and Coffee Development Agency)
SAFICC      -     Structure Nationale d'Appui-a la Filiere Cafe-Cacao
(established 1992; formerly "SRCC")
FISCAL YEAR
Government : January 1 to December 31
SRCC        s July 1 to June 30



FOR OmCIAL US ONLY
THE WORtD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffMo, of Oireotor -Ga.nwt
Opamrons Evluaton
Ncvember 29, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Togo
Third Coffee/Cocoa Develooment Project (Credit 1 745-TOI
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Togo - Third Coffee/Cocoa
Development Project (Credit 1745-TO) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II of the
report was contributed by the Borrower. It emphasizes the leaming aspects of the project and
sketches a revised strategy for the coffee-cocoa sector.
Unforeseen movements in world coffee and cocoa prices and lower crop yields
(less than half of what were expected) led to poor economic results - a reestimated ERR of
about 3 percent, instead of over 30 percent at appraisal. The project successfully established
a large number of farmer associations, but their effectiveness in providing marketing services
to, and credit collection from, their members was severely limited. The project implementing
agency itself proved to be unsustainable; monitoring and evaluation arrangements were weak
and the impact of the project on the overall quality of effective credit delivery and other
supporting services was disappointing. Hence, as for many integrated rural development
projects, the institution,1l objectives of the project were, at best, only partially achieved. This
proved critical for project benefits, which are unlikely to be sustainable. Quite apart from the
influence of shortfalls in crop yields and prices, long-term benefit prospects suffer from a
deterioration in the public entities having responsibilities for reconstructing the coffee/cocoa
sector. Thus, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.
The Project Completion Report provides a good account of project implementation
and performance including a forward looking perspective by one Borrower. based on lessons
leamed.
An audit is planned because of the apparent disagreements in the PCR over some
aspects of performance.
Attachment
This document has a resicted dstribution and may be used L. -.cents only In the performance of
thek offidal dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFIE/COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 174S-TO)
TABLE OF CONTZNTS
Paae No.
Preface .   . . . ... .* * * * * * * * * * 
Evaluation Summary  . . . . .                                              Li
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIV
1.   Project Identity ..  .  .            .  .   . .  .     .  .  .1
2.   Background  .  .       .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  . .          .      . .  . 2
4.    Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
5.   Project Implementation  . ...................   3
6.   Project Results   .... .                 . ...  . .  . . . .    4
7.   Project Sustainability   ... ....999  8
S.    The Bank's Performance  ....................  8
9.   The Borrower's Performance  . . . .   .  .   . .   .   . .   . 8
10.   Project Relationship  .         9    ........*...               9
11.  Consultant Services   .......  .   . .. . . . . 9
12.  Project Documentation and Data  . .-        .     .... -...   9
13.   Lessons Learned    .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   . .   .  . .   . 9
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVM
(Summary of Original Document in French)  . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PAf IT.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans and Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.    Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
3.   Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   . . . . 1.S
4.   Project Implementation   .     .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .. . . 16
S.   Project Costs and Financing   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 17
6.   Project Results   . . . . . . . . .. . . . ...   . . .    18
7.   Economic Impact          .        ............ ... ... ........  19
8     Studies . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . .                  . . .  .    .  20
9.   Status of Covenants   . . . . . . .   . ..........  21
10.  Use of Bank  R esources ..................... 24
AMm
1.   Economic Costs and Benefits
MAPSs IBRD 19605 & IBRD 19606
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
THIRD COFFEE/COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1745-TO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Coffee/Cocoa Development Project in the Republic of Togo, for which Credit 1745-
TO in the amount of SDR 14.9 million (USS17.9 million) was approved on December
9, 1986. The credit was closed on December 31, 1992, according to schedule. The
last disbursement was made on May 20, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Occidental and Central Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Borrower's contribution (Part II) was
submitted to IDA (in French) in December 1992. The project was cofinanced by the
French CCCE and PAC.
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Borrower's contribution to the PCR, supervision reports and other documents
relevant to the project. It was intended that it would also take into account
the findings of a final evaluation mission scheduled for December 1992 but this
was canceled at Government's request owing to difficult political situation in
the country.



- il -
PROJUCT CONPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOMO
TRZRD COFF/COCOA UDEVaELPMNT PROJECT
(Credit 1745-TO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          This was the last of the three IDA-financed projects intended to
promote the integrated rural development of ToqL-'o  coffee and cocoa producing
region; at appraisal, these two tree crops &-cJunted for one-fifth of the
nation's merchandise export earnings. The project focused on west-central Togo,
an area covering 13% of the nation's surface and containing 16% of its farm
popuxlation. Apart from promoting tree crops, it aimed to boost lood production,
strengthen farmers' organizations, and improve feeder roads. This approach
entailed strengthening the project-driven executing agency, SRCC, rather than
reinforcing Government's program of agricultural support services which remained
weak.
obitectives and De_i=n
2.          The project was consistent with Government's stated policy of
intensifying crop production by raising producer prices and providing
appropriate technical messages and inputs to the farmer. Its general aim was to
increase coffee and cocoa production, to raise foodcrop productivitys and to
promote gradual transfer of marketing and input supply functions to the farmer.
Specifically, the project sought: (a) to plant 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha
of cocoa, and to maintain existing plantations; (b) to develop 22,000 ha of food
crops; (c) to conduct adaptive crop research; (d) to build and maintain feeder
roads; (a) to develop farmers' associations; and (f) to conduct studies on land
tenure and long-term strategy for the coffee-cocoa development.
3.          Total project costs over five years were US$32.1 million, with
US$17.9 of this being provided by IDA; the balance was to be financed by CCCE,
FAC, Government, and by returns to the Project Credit Unit.
4.          The project design should have paid more attention to the long-term
sustainability of the executing agency, SRCC and addressed the fundamental
weaknesses in Government's research, extension, cooperative and infrastructure
services. Lessons from the first two projects were not sufficiently assimilated,
with no effective attempt to overhaul credit recovery mechanisms or to make
technical packages more responsive to farmer needs.
Imolementation Experience
5.          The project was approved on December 9, 1986 and became effective ln
July 1987. The project was closed on December 31, 1992, according to schedule,
and the Bank's last disbursement was made in May 1992.
6.          Effective implementation was impeded by the following problems:
(a)   Delays  and  shortfalls  in  counterpart  funding--Government met
only 67% of its committed contribution to project costs;



- iii -
(b)   Shortage  of  credit,   owing  to   inadequate  loan  recovery
procedures and the collapse of the agricultural development bank
(CNCA);
(c)   Severe erosion of the world market prices of coffee and cocoa;
(d)   Insufficient dialogue with Government concerning setting of the
producer prices and the measures required to tackle the growing
deficits of the coffee-cocoa development.
ProieCt Results
7.          Coffee planting targets were slightly exceeded whereas only 65% of
the scheduled area of cocoa actually planted; pruning of coffee trees and the
treatment of cocoa trees against blackpod was carried out over only one-fifth of
the surface envisaged--in contrast to capsid control, the target for which was
exceeded (largely because the cost of capsid treatments was not charged to the
farmer). Although there was no reliable data about incremental food crop output,
the project appears to have had only a limited impact in this respect: this may
be inferred from the shortfalls in the production and distribution of improved
seeds and the limited use of fertilizer and pesticide, factors aggravated by the
shortage of seasonal credit.
8.          The adaptive research component resulted in only limited adoption of
new techniques by farmers, mainly because the selection of research themes was
not sufficiently based on the needs and constraints perceived by farmers
themselves.  Targets for feeder road construction were almost met (88%) and
maintenance targets were exceeded. Of the 250 farmer groups scheduled for
creation, 222 were actually established: their involvement in coffee-cocoa
marketing and input distribution remained very limited and, contrary to
expectations, they did not serve as effective vehicles for credit recovery.
Finally, due to delay in the implementation of the scheduled studies, Government
could not take their re.commendations into account.
9.          The zecalculated Economic Rate of Return (ERR), over a 25 year
development period, is estimated at 3.4%, compared to 32% at appraisal. This
poor performance was mainly the consequence of a downturn in the world market
prices of coffee and cocoa, CFAF appreciation against the dollar and the failure
of farmers to adopt yield-increasing technologies.
Sustainability
10.         During the life of the project no measures were taken to ensure a
satisfactory devolution of SRCC's responsibilities to farmer groups and to
Government's agricultural services program; SRCC has not been refinanced.
Contrary to expectations, the project could not lay the base for agricultural
intensification. In the absence of a technical package acceptable to farmers,
crop yields are likely to remain beneath project estimates; and at present low
levels of maintenance, the rate at which mature tree crop plantations are going
out of production is likely to accelerate. Farmers organizations created by the
project will remain weak unless properly supported by Government's extension and
cooperative training program. Maintenance of the significant network of feeder
roads built by the three projects could be feasible if Government successfully
privatizes SRCC s civil engineering unit. Government's extension program should
benefit from the services of some of the subject matter specialists trained under
the third project.
Lessons
11.         Lessons to be drawn from this project are similar to those derived
from many of the other Bank's integrated rural development projects.   The
establishment of region-specific, specialized project institutions does not



- iv -
compensate, in the long run, for a weak national program of agricultural support
servicesl the aim should be to provide training and technical assistance that
will enable the Government to strengthen these services.
12.         The project also demonstrated that it is difficult for crop-based
rural development agencies to satisfactorily assume the responsibility for
promoting food crops.  In tackling the deficit of the tree crop development
agencies, it will be necessary for food crop promotion to be financed under
Government's general program of research and extension, rather than charged to
coffee-cocoa producers.
13.         Project-based, supply-driven approaches to credit provision are
likely to fail since sufficient attention is not paid to farner's capacity or
motivation to repay loans. Project Credit Units are no substitute, in the long
term, for farmers' savings and loan associations capable--with appropriate
training--of running their own affairs.
14.         The project revealed that it is not realistic to expect farmers to
make heavy use of inputs when faced with significant climatic risks and declining
crop prices. Rather than seeking to impose a pre-determined technical package
on the farmer, the aim should be to develop a flexible menu of low-cost options
based on detailed discussions with farmers and on-farm trials. Contrary to
assumptions made at the design phase, it seems that the non-attainment of
planting and maintenance targets was more the result of credit and pricing
constraints and the unsatisfactory nature of the technical package offered to
farmers, than to land tenure arrangements (the low revenues received by
sharecroppers). Instead of regulating the content and terms of the contracts
between landlords and tenants, Government should focus on strengthening the
institutional arrangements that permit farmers to formalize their contracts and
help ensure that such contracts are enforced.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TOGO
THIRD COFF8E/COC0A PROJECT
(Credit 1745-TO)
PART     PROJECT REVIEW  _ROM BANK PERSPECT1VE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name    s    Third Coffee/Cocoa Project
Credit Number   X     1745-TO
RVP Unit        t    Africa Regional Office
Country         t    Togo
Sector          t    Agriculture
2.    Background
2.01.       Togo is a small country of 57,000 square kilometers located on the
West African Gulf of Guinea. About 70% of the population, estimated at 3.7
million people in 1991, depend on the agricultural sector which accounts for
roughly one-third of GDP. In 1991, per capita income was estimated at US$410. In
terms of key social indicators, Togo approximates the Sub-Saharan African
averages life expectancy at birth is 56 years (compared to 52 years for the sub-
continent); the proportion of persons aged 15 or over who are illiterate is 57%,
slightly worse than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (51%).
2.02.       The Agricultural Sgctor. In the 1980s, agriculture grew at an average
annual rate of 5.1%, compared to overall GDP growth of only 1.4%. Food crops
accounted for almost two-thirds of sector GDP. The main cash crops were cotton,
coffee and cocoa. In the mid-1980s, there were about 320,000 farms in Togo,
cultivating crops on plots averaging 2.5 ha. Roughly 900,000 ha were under
cultivation, representing about one-quarter of all cultivable land. In past two
decades, cotton has replaced coffee and cocoa as the predominant export crop.
2.03.       Coffee and cocoa production is concentrated in western Plateaux
province, an area in which farmers grow on average 1.37 ha of tree crops and 0.67
ha of food crops. Cocoa production peaked at 29,000 tons in 1972 while coffee
reached its peak of 17,000 tons in 1969. The state-owned enterprise, SRCC, was
created in 1971, evolving into an integrated rural development agency for the
coffee-cocoa sone of Togo. From 1975 onwards, the first two IDA-financed cof fee-
cocoa projects sought to revitalize output of theoe crops. Between the mid-1970s
and the mid-1980s, the output of coffee grew from around 7,000 to 10,000 tons;
despite parallel efforts to boost cocoa output, over this same period, production
fell from about 16,000 to 12,000 tons.
2.04.       Sector Development Obiectives.  The Government viewed coffee-cocoa
as a critical sector in terms of export earnings and farm incomes. In 1984-85,
these crops contributed 22% of export earnings. The Governments main objective
was to continue with the program of replanting initiated in the mid-1970s and to
improve the maintenance of existing plantations.   The low yields of ageing
plantations and the poor genetic potential of existing plantations were
identified as key factors limiting coffee-cocoa productivity. In addition, many
farmers preferred to use the improved material to expand the area planted rather
than raising yields over the existing surface. Particular attention was given to
overcoming the constraints which impeded cocoa replanting.
2.05.       Government's intention was to improve the quality of support services
provided to the farmer, aiming at replacing the traditional land-extensive
approach with more intensive production techniques. Government was also committed
to bringing producer prices more in line with international trends; by providing



the producer with a larger share of the f.o.b. price (raising the producer
price), and encouraging the farmer to adopt yield-enhancing technologies. This
realignment of producer prices was consistent with the trade liberalization
objective of the two structural adjustment programs implemented in the first half
of the 1980a. Between the late 1970P and mid-1980s, as a proportion of the f.o.b.
price, the producer price rose from 27% to 37% for coffee, and from 398 to 47%
for cocoa.
3.    Project Objectives asd Description
3.01.       Proiect Objectives. The project sought to:
(a)   increase   coffee  and  cocoa  production  by   improving
productivity of investments made during the first two projects
and by planting in new areas;
(b)   raise  foodcrop  productivity  in  the  project  area,  thus
releasing labor fc- better cultivation of export crops;
(c)   ensure a gradual transfer of responsibilities for village
nurseries, input distribution and marketing from the project
implementing agency (SRCC) to the farmer.
3.02.       Prolect Description. The project was to be implemented over five
years and consisted of five components: i) agricultural develonment, the aim was
to plant 7,500 ha of coffee and 2,000 ha of cocoa, maintain coffee trees planted
under the first two projects, develop 22,000 ha of food crops and implement
annual programs of capsid and blackpod control in cocoa areas. ii) The research
institutes, IRCC and IRAT, were to be given the facilities to conduct short-term
adaptive research on cocoa, coffee and foodcrops. iii) SRCC would be provided
with the means to construct 250 km of new feeder roads, as well as maintaining
500 km of roads completed under the first two projects. In terms of institutional
develovment, the project aimed to establish 250 farmers' associations (which
would be responsible for marketing and input distribution), while reinforcing
SRCC'e capacity to provide technical assistance and training to farmers. Finally,
studies would be conducted on land tenure practices and the long-term strategy
for coffee-cocoa development.
3.03.       At appraisal, the project cost (including taxes) was estimated at
US$33.2 million, with foreign exchange costs amounting to about 60%. Funding was
to be shared among donors: IDA (US$17.9m), CCCE (US$5.7m), FAC (US$2.9m). It was
agreed that the Government would contribute an equivalent of US$2.6 million. It
was also intended that, the Project Credit Unit would contribute US$4.1 million,
out of the return to its lending activities.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01.       In 1984, Government developed a draft strategy for development of the
rural sector. By late 1985, following discussions between Bank and Government,
and in response to the findings of supervision missions for the second project,
it was agreed that a third coffee-cocoa project should be financed. This project
would provide continued support for coffee replanting, and would seek to raise
the productivity of existing coffee and cocoa plantations by introducing an
appropriate pricing policy (a condition of the second Structural Adjustment Loan)
and by improving services to coffee and cocoa growers. At this stage, the action
to be taken with respect to cocoa replanting was less clear. There was a
consensus among donors that the project should focus on raising yields rather
than increasing the area planted. It was also recognized that this would be the
last externally-financed coffee-cocoa project. This implied that during the
project period it would be desirable for SRCC to work out, with OPAT and
Government, a mechanism for supporting recurrent costs, taking steps toward
becoming a self-financing agency.
4.02.       The organization of the Third Coffee-Cocoa Project aimed to maximize
continuity with the first two projects. The project would be implemented by SRCC



which would remain independent from Government's broader extension program, and
supported by a separate extension project. Research programs would be carried out
by XRCC and IRAT. The state agricultural development bank (CNCA) would remain
responsible for credit operations, channeling loans through the exisring Project
Credit Unit. The work of SRCC's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit--set up under the
second project--would be consolidated.
4.03.       The main problem with the project design was the failure to take a
longer-term view concerning the fate of SRCC once the project was over: given
that there was to be no fourth project it was all the more important to work out
in advance how SRCC would eventually be incorporated (and financed) under
Government' .3 program. However, the Third Coffee-Cocoa Project did not address
the extreme weakness of Togo's agricultural support services.
4.04.       There was lack of agreement at the design phase concerning the
relative importance of the factors responsible for producer reluctance to replant
cocoa. Governiment did not share the conviction of Bank staff that land rights--
the insecure tenure and small revenue shares given to tenants--were the core
issue, insisting that producers were more constrained by low prices and the
inadequacy of the technical package. Commissioning a study on tenure practices
was not likely to resolve the problem and, given Government's ambivalence on the
matter, it was unrealistic to expect that there would be a significant change in
the land tenure regime. Moreover, even if Government were committed to tenure
reform, any attempt to formalize share contracts by establishing a set of rules
would have remained a dead letter unless backed up by approp=iate enforcement
mechanisms (which were not defined and established under the project).
4.05.        Questions were raised about the wisdom of providing capsid and
blackpod control free of charge to farmers: first, because there w&_ doubts
within the Bank concerning whether incremental benefits from these treatments
would be large enough to justify the (significant) incremental costs; second,
having been provided with this service free, farmers might be reluctant to absorb
the cost once the project ended, meaning that even if the project's impact were
positive it would probably not be sustainable. The option of financing input
costs by debiting the producer price was examined: although it seemed to offer
a way of ciicumventing the intractable problems associated with credit
administration and recovery, it was rejected on equity grounds since the producer
price cut would also have been applied to farmers outside the project area who
were not benefitting from the inputs.
4.06.       The problem of inadqguate loan repayment was not properly addressed
at the design phase. It was highly debatable whether coffee and cocoa buyers
could be relied upon to recover loans: buyers had no incentive to enforce
recovery; and the large number of buyers at the local level meant that farmers
would be free to sell to those buyers who were most lax about recovering credit.
It was equally wrong to assume that the farmers' associations that were to be set
up could be used as effective credit recovery vehicles--because the associations
were too weak and their membership and functions too diffuse to ensure adequate
peer pressure for loan repayment. CCCE argued that the third project should not
offor credit for replanting, a recommendation that was eventually dropped; given
the serious credit recovery problems experienced during the first two projects
the third project should have taken this recommendation more seriously.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01.       SRCC's contribution to project implementation was mixed. The units
responsible for Administration and Finance, and for Road Works, performed
satisfactorily; but the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit failed to provide adequate
feedback concerning progress toward project objectives, making it harder to
implement the necessary mid-course corrections.
5.02.       Implementation was impeded on a number of counts by Government's non-
compliance with the project agreement. Government failed to meet its share of
project costs: disbursements amounted to only 67% of what the Government had
committed itself to contribute to project costs. There was a considerable delay



-4-
in paying the research institutes (IRCC and IRAT) and the consulting firm
responsible for the land tenure study. Government insisted that technical
assistance be financed only from grant funds, contrary to the original terms of
the Credit Agreement. Disbursmimnts came close to being suspended in may 1989
following the Government's failure to pay IRAT/IRCC, leading to the suspension
of research activities.
5.03.       The Government was repeatedly urged to adopt a mechanism for setting
producer prices and distributing revenues similar to that introduced for the
cotton sectorl no progress was made on this front. No system for monitoring--a.ao
reducing-marketLng costs and overheads was lntroduced. Producer prices were not
worked out in consultation with the donors: there was no consultation regarding
changes made in 1989-90 and 1990-91. The producer price changes were made without
reference either to the cost structure or to world market trends: in 1990-91, the
producer price for coffee was increased from CFAF 175/kg to CFAF 185/kg, even
though there was an anticipated deficit for this season of about CFAP 100/kg.
During the December 1990 supervision mission steps  -ere taken to work out the
cocoa and coffee cost structures, with a view to ion-tifyin9 areas where cuts
could be mtde: it was intended that this exercise would be conducted annually but
there was no follow-up in 1991.
5.04.       Project implementation was affected by the weakness of the credit
component. It was difficult for missions to monitor the performance of the
Project Credit Unit (PCU) due to non-avaLlability of up-to-date balance sheets.
After the collapse of the agricultural development bank, CNCA, in 1989, there was
a freeze on all seasonal and developmental credit, compromising SRCC's capacity
to promote tree crops. Since there was no prospect for farmers to obtain new
loans, there was less incentive for them to repay old ones. Credit recovery rates
decl.ned progressivelys from 46% in 1986, to 22% in 1989 and 3% by late 1991.
Counterpart financing from PCU dried ups all loans recovered had to be used to
settle the debts of CNCA, and could not be relent to farmers.
5.05.       The delays in carrying out the two atudies and the review of the
cocoa program resulted in no impact on project implementation since no changes
to the policy could be made. Government was slow to respond to the
recommendations of the land tenure study. The consultant report was completed in
late 1988. A year later Government agreed that PAO should develop a "Contrat de
Plantation" (along the lines suggetted by the study); but in the end no action
was taken. Owing to delays in reack.Ing agreement on the terms of reference, the
coffee-cocoa strategy study was delayed until the tail end of the project.
5.06.       The volume and allocation of project funds changed over the life of
the project. In 1989, the project received supplementary funds in the form of a
grant of CFAF 175 million from the Swiss, intended to compensate--in STABEX
fashion--for 1986-87 shortfalls in Togo's coffee-cocoa export earnings.
Government was slow to respond to the proposals about how to use this money.
Owing to reallocations in the use of project funds, the Bank's loan was fully
disbursed by the end of 1991, while CCCE had disbursed only 37% of its loan. The
balance of funds remaining from CCCE and FAC was reallocated to cover SRCC
operating costs. Government failed to cover salary costs in 1992, contrary to the
terms of the Credit Agreement.
6.   Project Results
6.01.       The record on meeting the physical targets set at appraisal was
mixed. Given the marked credit constraints, there was more progress with nlantina
than might have been expected: 7,73S ha of coffee were planted, 3% more than
projected at appraisal; almost three-quarters of this area was planted under
credit. The area planted in cocoa (1,302 ha) amounted to only 65% of the
appraLsal target, partly because little credit was made available for input
purchase.



6.02.       Performance with respect to plantation maintenance war weaker. of the
area in coffee trees scheduled for pruning, only 22% was actually pruned.
Blackpod control was carried out on 20% of the cocoa area scheduled for
treatment. However, capsid control was applied to an area 12% larger than
originally planned--essentially because this service was provided free of charge
to the producer. At appraisal it was envisaged that 67,000 ha of coffee (the
cumulative area over the five years of the project) would receive fertilizerl in
practice, only one-third of this surface was treated.
6.03.       Performance of the food crop component was weak. Seed multiplication
targets could not be met, e.g., 65% of the estimated maize was produced while for
rice, groundnut and cowpeas, the proportion was 17%, 36% and 79% respectively.
The data on foodcrop extension is unreliable since even though it gives some
indication of the proportion of the farmers visited, there is no indication of
the extent the farmers actually followed the advice given to them. There seems
to be limited monitoring of this component in the supervision reports.
6.04.        The feeder road component showed good results, reflecting the
efficiency with which SRCC's Road Works Unit ran its operations. The building
program produced 220 km of new roads, 88% of the appraisal target. The
n-aintenance record was particularly good, covering 2,935 km (48% more than
envisaged at appraisal).
6.05.        There were 222 farmers' aroups (GAVs) created during the life of the
project, close to the 250 target. However, a better indicator is the extent to
which these groups assumed responsibility for the primary marketing of products
and for input distribution. Over the life of the project, the GAVs handled only
8% by volume of the coffee and cocoa that was marketed.
6.06.       The economic rate of return was estimated at 3.4%, compared to 32%
at appraisal. This discrepancy is mainly due to a downturn in the world prices
of coffee and cocoa, dollar depreciation and the failure of farmers to adopt
yield-increasing technologies, owing in large measure to the collapse of credit
facilities. In 1990, the world coffee price stood at US$1.20/kg, comnared to the
SAR assumption (based on projections by the Bank in 1986) of USS3.30; in the same
year, the cocoa price stood at US$1.30, compared to the US$1.90 that had been
forecast. The SAR assumed an exchange rate of US$1=CFAP 350, whereas the average
rate for tao project period was tVS$1= CFAF 296.
6.07.       At  appraisal,  it was  assumed  that,  if  husbandry  and  input
recommendations were properly followed, mature coffee and cocoa trees planted
under the project would yield 650kg/ha and 465kg/ha respectively averaging across
the three zones within the project area. These yields could not be attained owing
to limited use of fertilizer and a shortfall in pruning and disease control. For
the purposes of estimating the post-project ERR, the average yields from project
trees were reestimated at 400kg/ha for coffee and 300kg/ha for cocoas this
remains a somewhat optimistic assessment of the trees, future potential--yields
observed in the field in 1992 (for mature trees planted under the second project)
were around 200-250kg/ha. In the case of coffee, this shortfall in yields was
offset somewhat by the increase in the area planted (which exceeded appraisal
targets by 3%). For cocoa, the reverse was the case: the area planted was 35%
smaller than planned at appraisal, resulting in shortfall in incremental benefits
produced by low yields.
6.08.       The food crop yield projections made at appraisal seem to be
overoptimistic. Although SRCC produced no reliable data on the incremental output
of food crops, inferences may be drawn from certain key indicators. Although the
area served by extension agents exceeded the target set at appraisal, this is no
guarantee that farming technology was actually upgraded. The adoption of yield-
enhancing techniques was low, due to the constraints in supply of seasonal
credit. A 1991 survey indicated that improved varieties and fertilizer were
applied to 15% and %ll of the project food crop area, whereas 33% of the area in
cowpeas was treated against pests and diseases. Also, post-harvest losses and
limited storage facilities may have reduced farmers incentive to increase output.



Finally, price assumptions at appraisal were somewhat higher than levels actually
prevailing in local markets in 1988-90.
6.09.       Aaricultural  Develogment.  The  promotion  of  coffee  production
succeeded with respect to planting targets (which were exceeded). The supply of
good-quality cuttings from village nurseries was satisfactory: c. average, 76%
of the planting material used was produced by the farmers themselves. But the
goal of intensification was not realized. Farmers adopted very few of the
recommendations made by SRCC extension agents: the majority of farmers planted
under shade trees although SRCC advised unshaded planting; in 1990-91, it was
observed that 94% of farmers weeded their crop only twice a year or less, not the
four times recommended; pruning and sucker removal were neglected; and, in 1991,
fertilizer was applied to only 15% of the planted area, with dosages equal to
about half the prescribed level. Returns to fertilizer use were very poor: it was
estimated that for each kilogram of fertilizer applied the incremental output of
coffee would not exceed 0.3-0.7 kg--not enough to justify fertilizer use at the
present level of coffee prices. Apart from the adverse impact of producer price
and credit constraints, intensification was also impeded by weather risk: in the
event of crop failure, farmers would not recoup incremental input and labor
costs.
6.10.       The farmer resistance to cocoa replanting that was encountered during
the first two projects was still a problem for the third one. Although emphasis
was placed on interplanting of new cocoa trees with old (instead of the clear-
cutting recommended by the earlier projects) farmers still objected to the loss
of revenue entailed by stripping out mature trees, even when yields were very
low. Most farmers were old and therefore reasoned that they might not live to
reap the benefit of new trees. In terms of area covered, only 65% of the planting
target was met. The rate of planting accelerated after 1990 because extension
agents successfully convinced many farmers of the merits of the new hybrids. The
disease control program for established cocoa trees met with limited success. The
capsid program was hampered by lack of survey data concerning the areas most in
need of treatment; the approach was not sustainable because all labor and spray
costs were borne by SRCC; there was little response to attempts to transfer
responsibilities for spraying to the farmer. Also, it proved unrealistic to
expect farmers to assume the heavy cost of blackpod treatment: those farmers
willing to pay for the inputs sprayed a maximum of four times a year (not eight
as recommended).
6.11.       The development of foodcrops hinged on provioion of improved seeds
(through seed multiplication at the farm level), credit for fertilizer and
technical advice to farmers. Seed production was poor, reaching only 37% of the
output target. Seed distribution was equally weak, with only 44% of the seeds
that had been produced actually reaching the farmer. This was because farmers
preferred to use their own seed stock, and seeds produced by the project had to
compete with other varieties provided by SOTOCO and DRDR. Although the total food
crop area serviced by extension agents was roughly four times larger than
envisaged at appraisal, the limited use of improved technology by farmers raises
doubts about the quality of this extension work; SRCC's Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit did not provide the feedback that might have enabled the extension agents
to target their activities more successfully.
6.12.       Adaptive Research.  IRCC attempted to increase coffee planting
densities but the new technique was adopted on only 10% of the planted area,
partly because farmers were reluctant to sacrifice space earmarked for
interplanted food crops. In the case of cocoa, the hedge planting technique
envisaged at appraisal was rejected by farmers, who were unwilling to devote the
space and labor to planting these hedges. The experiments with water harvesting
(intended to reduce plant mortality rates) did not generate significant results
and no cost-effective techniques were developed. IRAT's record for applied
foodorop research was equally poor. The testing of improved varieties of maize,
tice, cowpeas and groundnuts took insufficient account of farmers priorities and
constraints; for example, the lack of appropriate storage and conservation
techniques hampered attempts to persuade farmers to adopt hybrid maize. Although
the research program was compromised by shortfalls and delays in counterpart



-7
financing, its real weakness lay in the failure to consult farmers sufficiently
before research themes were selected: the attempt to impose a pre-conceived
"package" led to farmer resistance.
6,13.       Feeder Roads. The project built 220 kmu of new roads, compared to the
250 km envisaged at appraisal. The slight shortfall was the result of problems
caused by exceptionally difficult terrain: hence the construction cost was higher
than originally budgeted for, resulting in delay while approval was sought to
transfer funds from other categories. The targets for road maintenance were
exceeded. The Road Works Unit of SRCC was well managed and the road maintenance
operations were more cost efficient than those carried out by other public road
building agencies operating in Togo. This good performance was the consequence
of flexible labor hire arrangements, the short distances over which heavy
machinery had to be transported, the exclusive focus on feeder roads and the
accumulated expertise of the staff, many of whom had been engaged on this work
since 1974.
6.14.       Institutional Development. Of the 250 farmer associations (GAV) that
it was planned to create, 222 were actually established. GAVs now exist in 44%
of the villages covered vi the project and their combined membership represents
4% of the economically active population. These associations barely existed in
the coffee-cocoa zone before 1986 and, despite rapid growth under the auspices
of the third project, they remain weak. From the viewpoint of primary marketing,
the main problem derives from the inability of the GAVs to compete with the many
small buyers operating in the zone, even in areas where GAVs have been granted
a statutory monopsony. Unlike the merchants, the GAVs are incapable of making
small consumer loans to producers (which may subsequently be written off against
coffee and cocoa sales). The attempt to use the GAVs as a medium for recovering
credit delivered by the project proved to be ineffective, merely encouraging the
members to evade debt repayment obligations by selling to merchants. Although,
in principle, 100% of the GAVe are involved in primary marketing, between them
they handled only 17% of the volume of tree crops marketed in 1991. The other
functions performed by the GAV are equally poorly developed: 59% are involved in
input distribution and 13% operate nurseries for producing planting material.
Only 35 of the 200 village warehouses that should have been built by the project
were actually constructed.
6.15.       Studies. The purpose of the land tenure study was to seek solutions
to farmer's resistance to cocoa replanting in the Litime region. The appraisal
team attributed this resistance to a tenure system according to which
sharecroppers rather than owners were the direct cultivators: it was argued that
sharecroppers lacked security of tenure and were therefore unwilling to make the
long-term investment that replanting entailed. The study proposed a formalization
of the share contract entailing a standardized specification of the crop share
and length of tenancy, administered by a specially-constituted tenure agency.
Commenting on the draft study, Government suggested that technical and price
constraints were more powerful disincentives to cocoa replanting than tenure
issues. There was some justification to this argument. The study revealed that
sharecropping in the coffee zones did not impede replanting, in any case, the
recommendations of the study were not acted upon by Government.
6.16.       The long-term strategy study conducted at the tail end of the
project, examined ways of dealing with the large deficits of the SRCC. The study
envisaged the dissolution of this agency and its replacement by an inter-
professional committee representing the interests of coffee-cocoa farmers and
traders. It was recommended that the "rural development" mandate of SRCC be
abandoned. The new Agency would not be responsible for extension, research,
farmer organization and food crop promotion, activitiee that would be absorbed
by the Rural Development Ministry, and the road works unit would be privatized.
Marketing recommendations took into account the frailty of the GAV, their current
inability to compete with the licensed buyers, arguing that full liberalization
would not be in the producers' interests, merely enabling the dominant buyer
(which already captured 70% of output) to consolidate its position, and
extracting monopsony rents. A rationalized OPAT would continue to handle export
marketing and to set reference--rather than guaranteed--producer prices. The



Government provided no substantive comment on the study's recommendations. When
the study was delivered, the (transitional) Government had neither the political
will nor the necessary leverage to implement the radical restructuring that was
called for. Nevertheless, the study's recommendations were broadly endorsed by
the donors and will probably be taken up by Government once political order is
restored.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01.       The implementing agency (SRCC), itself proved to be unsustainable.
In 1992, it was renamed SAFICC, retaining its predecessor's functions but lackin%,
the budget to carry them out. The necessary restructuring of the coffee-cocoa
filieres is still pending. The project planted a significant area of coffee and
cocoa but could not lay the basis for agricultural intensification. Shortage of
credit, absence of sufficient price incentives and the failure to develop
appropriate technologies, discouraged farmers from taking the measures needed to
raise yields. At the present low levels of maintenance, the rate at which mature
plantations are going out of production is likely to accelerate. If the
investment made by the project is to bear fruit, it will be necessary to reorient
the research and extension effort toward low-input, minimal cost techniques based
or a clearer identification of farmer needs. The third project provided training
for a number of extension agents and subject matter specialists: the services of
the most skilled among them will still be required by Government's extension
program and, in this sense, the project may potentially have a continuing impact.
It should be feasible to maintain the feeder roads that were built under the
third project: based on leasing of SRCC's heavy equipment to local private
contractors. The farmer organizations created by the project were not well
organized and will only be sustainable if the Ministry of Rural Development's
extension and cooperative services provide the appropriate training. This entails
concentrating efforts on those groups which have committed memberships and
clearly defined objectives.
8.    The Bank's Performance
8.01.       Because this was a follow-up project it was easy to take for granted
the structures and procedures established by the first two projects; and yet the
lessons contained in the preceding projects would have reduced some of the
difficulties encountered under the third project. The problem of credit recovery
was fully evident from the previous projects but not satisfactorily addressed.
Previous failures at intensification should have drawn attention to the dangers
of a *top down" approach to research and extension which paid insufficient
attention to the needs perceived by farmers. Too much faith was vested in a
technical package whose payoff in yield terms was uncertain and whose cost would
not easily be borne by the farmer once the project ended. Warnings were given
before appraisal but these were not properly heeded.
8.02.       This five-year project was supervised by four Bank staff, leading to
a loss of continuity. Supervision missions should have been more frequent (twice
a year). A mid-term review would have alerted the Government about the urgent
need for cost-cutting measures and redefining the objectives of research and
extension once it became clear that initial targets were not being met. The
supervision missions should have paid more attention to the broader issues such
as pricing policy and sustainability rather than realization of physical targets
alone in the early years. The long-term strategy study, if conducted earlier
knowing that there will be no refinancing of the SRCC, would have helped in the
sustainability of that institution after the completion of the project.
9.   The Borrower's Performance
9.01.       The Borrower could have made more strenuous attempts to comply with
the terms of Development Credit Agreement. Counterpart funds were not provided
on time, holding up the work program of the research institutes. No counterpart
funds were received in 1990 and 1991. The Government was slow in launching the
two studies envisaged and made no satisfactory response to their recommendations.
It failed to ensure that PCU balance sheets were delivered on time, making it



-9-
hard for donors to evaluate the scale of the problems associated with the credit
component. Most seriously, the Borrower failed to consult with donors before
setting producer prices and made no attempt to collaborate in developing a
strategy for containing filiere deficits. Government was slow in deciding how
best to use supplementary financing from the export stabilization fund which the
Swiss made available in the latter stages of the project. SSRC's performance was
generally adequate. The financial administration of the project was satiofactory:
with one exception, audits were delivered on time but were not heavily qualified.
10.   Project Relationship
10.01       Relations with SRCC were good. The Director General was generally
helpful in responding to the Bank's queries and suggestions and the rest of the
staff were very cooperative. Relations between the Bank and the other donors
(FAC, CCCE) were also cordial and productive. The main problem concerned the
limited assistance provided by the export marketing agency, OPATs it was
difficult to obtain accurate information on the cost structure of the coffee and
cocoa filieres, seriously impeding attempts In the latter part of the project to
develop a restructuring plan. Also, the quality of the dialogue with Government
remained poor. Partly because of the uncertainty attaching to Togo's political
transition, Government showed no interest in reviewing the long-term perspectives
for the tree crop development.
11.  Consultant Services
11.01       The project financed 14 man-years of technical assistance and this
was implemented in line with recommendations made at appraisal. After some delay,
an expatriate Technical Advisor wabs hired to work alongside the Director General
of SRCC and, as envisaged, he remained in post throughout the project. Before the
project started, qualified local staff were identified for overseas training
during the project's first year. Once trained, they replaced three expatriate
directors (inherited from the previous projects), responsible for Agricultural
operations, Training and Civil Works. The handover was carried out on time and
the local staff performed satisfactorily. As stipulated by the Development Credit
Agreement, they remained in post until the end of the project. There was no
assessment in the supervision reports of the soundness of the work conducted by
the independent consultants who were hired each year to assess the effectiveness
of the capsid control program and to review the quality of IRCC's research work.
12. Project. Documentation and Data
12.01       The appraisal report was very thorough, facilitating implementation
and (together with its associated Working Papers) providing an adequate base for
preparation of the PCR. The covenants were both reasonable and clearly spelled
out, facilitating project monitoring. The supervision reports were rather thin,
focusing narrowly on the progress made toward achieving physical targets and
making little reference to the economic and institutional framework in which the
project was located. The absence of a th.orough mid-term review is regrettable.
The biggest problem faced in preparing the PCR was the lack of meaningful data
from the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit concerning trends in the output and
yields of tree crops and food crops. The long-term strategy study contained
useful insights about the project environment and the viability of technical
packages developed for coffee and cocoa. It contains detailed recommendations for
filiere restructuring, which should assist Government in performing this
essential task. Finally, SRCCIs contribution to the PCR was delivered on time and
served as a useful input for preparation of the Bank's review.
13.   Lessons Learned
13.01       This project is typical of the "integrated rural development"
projects that the Bank financed in the 1970s and early 1980s. Very little
attention was paid to the sustainability of the investments being made
--failing to consider what would happen to project institutions and staff at the
end of the project (whether Government could feasibly be expected to absorb the
costs entailed by running the various project components). Rather than building



- 10 -
autonomous project institutions, or limiting interventions to particular regions,
it is now widely recognized that the emphasis should be placed on strengthening
agricultural support services, privatizing those services where costs can
feasibly be charged to the user and reinforcing those services (data collection,
monitoring, planning) which will necessarily remain the domain of Government.
This project also demonstrated that it is difficult for filiere-based agencies
to satisfactorily assume the responsibility for promoting food crops. In tackling
the deficit of the tree crop filieres, it will be necessary for food crop
promotion to be financed under Government I s general program of research and
extension, rather than charged to coffee-cocoa producers.
13.02       Many of the lessons that may be learned from the third project were
already evident during the second project; and yet the design of the third
project was only partly modified to reflect what had been learnt. The PCR for the
second project councils against the continued adoption of a supply-driven
approach to credit provision (one which ignores the economic and institutional
factors which determine the sustainability of lending arrangements). Project
Credit Units are no substitute, in the long term, for farmer savings and loan
associations capable (assuming appropriate training is provided) of running their
own affairs. The second project PCR also concl-ades that cocoa replanting would
be held up as long as there was a "high risk associated with the planting
technology extended"; and as long as there was "little equity" in the sharing of
revenues between landlords and sharecroppers. The first of these points may be
generalized to the whole of the technical package offered to farmers in the third
project. Faced with significant climatic risk and the prospect of declining
coffee and cocoa prices, it is not realistic to expect farmers to make heavy use
of inputs. Rather than seeking to impose a pre-determined technical package on
the farmer, the aim should be to develop a flexible menu of low-cost options
based on detailed discussions with farmers and on-farm trials.
13.03       The third project did seek to respond to the land tenure constraint
identified by the second project; but it exaggerated the significance of this
problem and overestimated the political feasibility of trying to alter existing
tenure arrangements. The terms of sharecropping contracts are extremely varied,
containing a flexibility that is appealing to both parties to the deal. If the
terms of a contract were not acceptable to the sharecropper, he would not enter
into it. In many cases in West Africa, sharecropping is a transitional
arrangement offering some long term benefits to the tenant: after some years the
tenant often acquires limited ownership rights over the land. Rather than trying
to alter the existing tenure system, or drawing up standardized contracts between
landlord and tenant, projects should leave farmers free to work out their own
arrangements and should not ask the state to regulate the terms of such
contracts. Instead of determining the contents of the contract, Governments
should focus on strengthening the Institutional arrangements that permit farmers
to formalize their contracts and help ensure that such contracts are enforced.
PART IT: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(SUMMARY OF ORIGINAL DOCUMENT IN FRENCR)
1.   Project Objectives
1.01        The overall objectives of the third project were: (a) to increase the
output of coffee and cocoa; (b) to improve food crop productivity; (c) to provide
credit for coffee/cocoa planting; (d) to promote farmer organizations; (e) to
build and maintain feeder roads; (f) to reinforce SRCC installations and
services.
2.    Project Resources
2.01        (a) Human resources: throughout the project, SRCC personnel numbered
about 600. (b) Equipment: not all the road-building equipment and machinery



- 11 -
specified at appraisal was actually purchased; the good equipment maintenance
record and the change in funding priorities made it possible to reallocate funds
to other, more appropriate, expenditure categories. (c) Funds: total financing
amounted to CFAF 11,654 million, shared between IDA, CCCE, FAC, PCU and
Government.
3.    Project Results
(a) Physical results.
3.01        Coffee.  On average, 76% of all planting material was derived from
farmers.   The planting target was exceeded (7,735 ha, compared to 7,500 ha
forecast at appraisal), with about three-quarters of this area financed with
plantation loans; the rate of planting fell off in the last two years owing to
the fall in the producer price and the drying up of credit. Farmers averaged
three weedings per year (not six, as recommended). Fertilizer use declined from
71% of the planted area in 1987 to only 15% in 1991.  Only 22% of the area
scheduled for pruning actually received this treatment. Yields varied greatly
(subject to the weather) but the mean was 700 kg/ha.
3.02        Cocoa.  The production of planting material was constrained by the
high rates of self-fertilization associated with the prevailing technique of
natural pollination.   Only 65% of the 2000 ha scheduled for planting were
actually planted, mainly owing to technical constraints in the first two years
of the project. The area subject to capsid control varied between 28,700 ha and
50,000 ha per year: monitoring of treatments was imprecise.  Treatments for
blackpod rot averaged four per farmer, compared to the recommended eight. It was
envisaged that, by project end, the cost of phytosanitary treatments would be
fully borne by the farmer; this objective was realized for blackpod control but
not for capsid control (or treatment of other insect pests). Poor farmer
participation is explained by the ingrained habit of depending on SRCC teams and
the non-availability of spraying equipment suitable for use by individual
farmers.
3.03         Tree Cro, Research. An attempt was made to increase the density of
coffee trees but this was applied to only 10% of the area planted, owing to
credit constraints and farmers' reluctance to give up space devoted to
interplanted food crops. With respect to cocoa, farmers preferred clear-cut
planting techniques (rather than interplanting with fruit-bearing hedges),
because the former allowed thera to grow food crops in between the new trees.
Experiments with water conservation techniques failed to yield significant
results.
3.04        Food CroDs. Research focused on the development of improved varieties
of maize, rice, cowpeas and groundnuts; storage facilities were not well adapted
to storing improved varieties (particularly maize), limiting farmer uptake. The
attempt to promote village-level seed production and to place distribution in the
hands of village groups was only achieved to a very limited extent. During the
project there was a rapid increase in the food crop area served by extension
agents, with the fastest growth recorded for maize. Of the area planted in food
crops, 1S% contained improved varieties, 37% was sown in line and 11% received
chemical fertilizer.
3.05        Credit. Loans for planting were expected to total CFAF 728 million
but, at project end, only CFAF 568 million had been allocated. Short-term credits
for the purchase of coffee fertilizer amounted to CFAF 241 million (compared to
the CFAF 298 million envisaged at appraisal); this credit was stopped in 1989
owing to the poor recovery record. Repayment rates for coffee planting loans fell
from 34% in 1987 to 2% in 1991; recovery of short-term loans fell to 1%.
3.06        Farmer Grouns. Of the 250 farmer groups (GAV) scheduled for creation,
222 were actually formed, covering 44% of the villag-c in the project area. The
contribution of these groups to the primary marketing of coffee/cocoa was very
limited: they handled only 8% of the total output generated during the project.



- 12 -
SRCC advanced credit to some of these groups to facilitate marketing, input
purchase and the development of village stores.
3.07        Feeder Roads. New roads amounted to 220 km in length (compared to the
250 km initially forecast), the shortfall owing to the difficulties posed by
hilly terrain and the using up of funds allocated to this component. The number
of kilometers subject to maintenance roughly quadrupled between 1987 and 1991,
at an average cost of CFAP 78,000/km (not including depreciation).
(b) Institutional Results
3.08        Various offices were built and new service units were created. A
training unit was established, geared to the needs of field extension agents and
visitors from neighboring countries; 50 agents received short-term training and
3 agents were sent on long-term courses (two years or more), with a view to
replacing expatriate etaff. Expatriate heads of the Civil Engineering, Extension
and Training Units were replaced by national staff in the first year of the
project; but an expatriate Technical Advise remained in place throughout the
project.
3.09        Studies were conducted on land tenure practices (1988), suitability
of soils in the Litime region for cocoa cultivation (1990) and long-term strategy
for the coffee-cocoa secto_ (1992). The recommendations of the land tenure study
were not compatible with socio-economic realities and were therefore not
implemented. There was no time to exploit the results of the Litime study. The
strategy study was conducted much too late to be effective--mainly because donors
and Government could not agree on the terms of reference--but shed some useful
light on the prospects for the coffee/cocoa filiere.
3.10        In line with the terms of the Loan Agreement, four missions were
arranged to inspect the effectiveness of capsid control: their recommendations
were implemented, leading to improved cocoa husbandry. Eight Bank supervision
missions were carried out: among other things, these resulted in the setting up
of a special project account (to ease cashflow problems), the study of
appropriate coffee pruning cycles, the establishment of a monitoring system for
phytosanitary treatments of cocoa and attempts to improve loan recovery. The
attempt to introduce water harvesting techniques was misconceived, reflecting a
certain over hastiness in the task managers, making of decisions. Bank task
managers changed too frequently, preventing proper follow-up and sufficient
familiarity with project details: there were 4 task managers during the project.
(c) Financial results.
3.11        The project budget was revised from CFhA  11,654 million to CFAP
11,071 million, owing to changes in the SDR/US$ parity and the difficulty faced
by PCU in recovering loans; 86% of this revised amount had been disbursed at the
project's end. All of the IDA contribution was used up but only 47% of CCCE's and
89% of FAC's commitment was actually disbursed: this was largely because SRCC
chose not to buy French vehicles for cost efficiency reasons and was obliged to
use IDA rather than French funds to finance these purchases. The Government met
only two-thirds of the financial obligation it had contracted.
4.    CONCLUSION
4.01        The project ran for five years, from 1987 to 1991. The following
objectives were more or less satisfactorily achieved: improved productivity,
provision of credit, promotion of farmer groups and the construction of feeder
roads. The extension work carried out by the third prrject boosted coffee yields
from 600 kg/ha to 800 kg/ha, leading coffee output tc double between 1987 and
1991. Despite the poor record with respect to cocoa output, there was a
significant improvement in husbandry techniques and farmer commitment, making
a recovery possible in the medium term. Improved seed production and cultivation
techniques and the use of fertilizer helped to make up for food crop deficits in
the project area. The farmer groups established under the project have assumed
certain of the input supply and nursery functions of the SRCC, facilitating the



- 13 -
transfer of agricultural support services from the state to the private sector.
One of the principal achievements of the project was to extend and maintain the
feeder road network, easing input distribution and crop marketing.
4.02        Although, overall, the project met its objectives, the following
limitations need to be recognized. First, the dependence of the PCU on the state
development bank, CNCA, severely undermined the effectiveness of the credit
component; owing to the liquidation of CNCA, PCU lost more than CFAF 2 billion
of loans recovered during the first two projects. Second, land tenure problems
and the inadequacy of the technical package offered to farmers impeded the growth
of cocoa output. Third, problems related to the post-harvest treatment of food
crops were not satisfactorily resolved. Fourth, owing to the limited
participation of village groups in primary marketing of coffee and cocoa, the
prospects for boosting farmer revenues were limited.
4.03        In the light of these findings, a new strategy should be devised,
aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the coffee-cocoa sector. The following
recommendations are made:
(a)   Develop a holding strategy for coffee, designed to check the fall in
yields; this should be based on a low-cost input package, involving
less pruning and more use of animal and green manure;
(b)  Expand cocoa production (because returns are more promising than for
coffee); this entails selective replanting, introduction of manual
pollination techniques and the adoption of appropriate phytosanitary
measures;
(c)   Develop a "lighter", more streamlined extension program geared to
introducing farmers to these new techniqueb;
(d)   Introduce a slimmed-down agency that will continue to provide the
core services originally offered by SRCC, aiming to protect the
investments in coffee-cocoa planting made over the last twenty years;
(e)   Encourage village groups to play a larger role in primary marketing
of coffee and cocoa in order to reduce costs;
(f)   Introduce a minimum producer support price for coffee and cocoa,
aiming to stabilize producer revenues while remaining in line with
world market trends.



- 14 -
PA  JII.  SATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Dank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan title          Apjroval    Puraose                        Status
Coffee/Cocoa I
(Cr. 503-TO)         1975      Plant 4,400 ha of cocoa
and 4,000 ha of coffeet
develop SRCC; provide
credit; build/repair            Closed
160 km of feeder roads          1980
Coffee/Cocoa IT
(cr. 945-TO)         1979      Replant 7,500 ha of coffee
and 4,000 ha of cocoa;
provide extension, inputs
& credit; promote foodcrops;
improve planting material &
seed; build/repair 300 km of    Closed
feeder roads.                    1986
2.    Project Timetable
Date        Date
Item                           Planned     Revised      Date Actual
- Identification                N.A.          N.A.             N.A.
- Preparation                  02/85          N.A.         02/10/85
- Project Brief (EPS)          07/85          N.A.         07/11/85
- Appraisal Mission            02/86          N.A.         02/03/86
- Ln/Cr. Negotiations          09/86          N.A.         09/23/86
- Board Approval               12/86          N.A.         12/09/86
- Ln/Cr. Signature             01/87          N.A.         01/15/87
- Ln/Cr. Effectiveness          N.A.          N.A.         07/15/87
- Ln/Cr. Completion            06/92          N.A.         06/30/92
- Ln/Cr. Closing               12/92          N.A.         12/31/92



- 15 -
3.      Loan Disbursements
Disbursumnts (in USS Nilticn)
Credit 1745-To
Bank Fiscal Year      Estimated         Actual      Actual as X   Actual as X of
-and Qarter          Cumulative     Cumulatfve     of Estimated    Loan Amount
1987      3              0              0                 0                 0
4             0      1,340.000                 0                 7
1988      1      1,790,000      2,280,000               127                13
2     2.770,000      3,460,000               125                19
3     3,800,000      5,130,000               135                29
4     4,800,000      5,740,000               120                32
1989      1     5,550,000       7,500,000               135               42
2     6,440,000      7,780,000               121                43
3     7,340,000      8,340,000               114                47
4     8,230,000      9,010,000               109                50
1990       1      9,130,000     10,670,000               117               60
2    10,020,000     11,250,000               112                63
3    10,920,000     13,120,000               120                73
4    11,720,000     15,040,000               128                84
1991       1    12,530,000      16,660,000               133               93
2    13,340,000     17,110,000               128                96
3    14,140,000     18,150,000               128               101
4    14,770,000     19,440,000               132               109
1992       1    15,390,000      19,670,000               128               110
2    15,930,000     20,000,000               126               112
3    16,470.000
4    16,920,000
1993       1    17,360,000
2    17,900,000
3
4
Effective Date: 07/15/87
Last Disbursement: 05/20/92
Actual CIotsng Date: 1V131/92
Actual Completion Date: 06/30/92
SOURCE: NIS DATA AS OF 02/27/93
Comments:
Out of the loan amount of SDR 14,900,000, all was disbursed. The final USS disbursement was higher than
predicted at appraisal because of the appreciation of the SDR (from SOR 1   US$1.20 to SDR 1 a US$1.34).



- 16 -
4.    Project laplesentatiou
ampSaisal
Indicator                                                   Actua}
Coffee Planting (ha)                 7,S00                  7,735
Cocoa Planting (ha)                  2,000                  1,302
Coffee Pruning (ha)                  ;,500                  1,620
Capuid Control (ha)                175,000                196,000
Blackpod Control (ha)               12,000                  2,379
Seed Multiplication
-Maize (ton)                           380                    248
-Rice (ton)                            624                    107
-Groundnut (ton)                       288                    104
-Cowpeas (ton)                          38                     30
Food Crops Program
-Maize (ha)                          9,660
-Rice (ha)                           8,300
-Groundnuts (ha)                     2,920
-Cowpeas (ha)                        1,500
Feeder Roads
-Construction (km)                     251                    220
-Maintenance (km)                    1,977                  2,935
Farmers' Associations (No)             250                    222
Technical Assistance (Man-years)        14



- 17 -
S.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Avnraisal Estimate,s              Actal
(CFy" m)     (US$ m)l    (CFAP m)   (US$ M)2
Road Building/Maintenance       941.8          2.7         946.4        3.2
Vehicles & Materials          1,082.0          3.1         739.4        2.5
Consultant Services           1,040.0          3.0         887.3        3.0
Operating Cost"               3,118.4          8.9       2,868.8        9.7
Salaries (Local Staff)        2,449.2          7.0       1,981.6        6.7
Crop Inputs                     773.6          2.2         709.8        2.4
Coffee/Cocoa Research           313.0          0.9         207.0        0.7
Food Crop Research              165.0          O.S          88.7        0.3
Farmer Associations              95.5          0.3          59.2        0.2
Creditt Planting                604.1          1.7         561.9        1.9
Credits Seasonal                298.4          0.9         236.6        0.8
Capsid Control                  189.8          0.5         207.0        0.7
TOTAL                        11,070.7         31.7       9,463.7       32.1
B. Financing Plan
Planned   _Actual
(CFAF m)    (US$ m)3    (CFAF m)    (US$ m)4
IDA                            5,730.2       16.4        5,298.4        17.9
CCCI                           1,985.0        5.7        1,213.6         4.1
PAC                            1,015.0        2.9        1,124.8         3.8
Government                       910.0        2.6          741.7         2.5
Project Credit Unit            1,430.5        4.1        1,115.2         3.8
TOTAL                         11,070.7       31.7        9,501.3        32.1
N2t&. The appraisal cost estimates and financing plan do not include the IDA
funds (US$1.5 million) for a PPF advance. The actual cost and financing
plan do not include the CFAF 175.4 million given by the Swiss in 1991.
At USS1 - CFAF 350 (Staff Appraisal Report estimate, 1986)
2 At US$1 = CPAF 296 (averaac rate for project period).
3 At US$l - CFAP 350 (Staff Appraisal Report estimate, 1986).
4 At US$1 - CFAF 296 (average rate for project period).



- 18 -
6.    Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Without    Appraisal    Actual      Actual Increment/
Indicators        Project       PYS          PY5       Expected Increment
Outnaut (t)
Coffee            12,050      13,512       13,414            95%
Cocoa              5,761       8,561        7,179            51s
Maize              9,660       19,320      12,075            25% (e)
Rice               7,470      12,450        8,715            25% (e)
Groundnuts         2,044       3,504        2,409            25% (e)
Cowpeas              750       1,200          863            25% (e)
Area (ha)
Coffee            60,000      67,500       67,735           103%
Cocoa             35,000      37,000       36,302            65%
Maize              9,660       9,660        9,660            na
Rice               8,300       8,300        8,300            na
Groundnuts         2,920       2,920        2,920            na
Cowpeas            1,500        1,500       1,500            na
Yieldg (kg/ha)
Coffee*              200      200 (650)   00 (400)          (44%)
Cocoa*               165      230 (450)   200 (300)          (47%)
Maize              1,000       2,000        1,250             25% (a)
Rice                 900        1,500       1,050             25% (e)
Groundnuts           700        1,200         825             25% (e)
Cowpeas              500         800          575             25% (e)
*     Figures in parentheses refer to yields on mature trees planted under
projects II and III with maintenance; figures not in parentheses refers to
average yield over project area (including older trees and trees with zero
maintenance).
(a)   Estimate. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit did not provide a full set of
data on incremental food crop output/yields.
(na)  Not Applicable. Project aimed to raise yields from existing area, not
increase the area cultivated.



- 19 -
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return
-Estimate at appraisal            32.0%
-Estimate at project's end         3.4%
Underlvin " AssumDtions
(i)   At Appraisal.  Economic prices for coffee, cocoa and fertilizer were
derived from commodity projections made by the Bank in 1986.
Economic prices of pesticides were based on present imported prices.
For foodcrops--whose prices are market-determined--financial prices
were used.  Labor was  costed  at the  financial  price of CPAF
575/manday. Benefits and costs were expressed in 1986 prices, net of
identifiable taxes and duties. Cost estimates included physical
contingencies of 10-15% It was assumed that 50% of the new coffee
area would replace old Niaouli varieties and 50% would replace
fallows or forest land. Planting of cocoa would be carried out on
old cocoa plantations.  At the project's end, recurrent costs,
vehicle replacement and building and road maintenance would
continue; no investment costs would be incurred.
(ii)   At Proiect's End. Cost stream is based on investment and operating
costs actually incurred in 1987-91 (PYl-PY5); the rest of the stream
sets operations and maintenance costs at one-half of the average
total cost incurred in 1987-91, on the assumption that SSRC will
disappear and its responsibilities for extension, road maintenance
etc will be absorbed by the Ministry of Rural Development--and that
these services will operate on a smaller scale than before. For
coffee and cocoa, the benefit stream is based on actual area planted
multiplied by the expected yield profile over a 25 year period:
assuming that at full development, coffee and cocoa yields are
respectively 400 kg/ha and 300 kg/ha (the SAR projects a yield of
650 kg/ha for coffee and 465 kg/ha for cocoa). The economic farmgate
price is based on actual world prices (1987-92) and World Bank
projections for the period 1993-2011, with internal marketing,
processing and marine freight and insurance rates based on 1992
levels. The exchange rate for 1993-2011 was assumed to be CFAF 275
= USS1.00. In the absence of reliable data about incremental food
cron output, it is assumed that incremental benefits will be only
.q% of those estimated at appraisal. This is because the adoption of
yield-enhancing technologies was very low: a 1991 survey indicated
that improved varieties and fertilizer were applied to respectively
15% and 11% of the project food crop area; and only 33% of the area
in cowpeas was treated against pests and diseases. Also, post-
harvest losses and storage constraints were not effectively dealt
with, reducing the incentive for farmers to increase output. In line
with these assumptions about lower-than-expected yield for both tree
and food crops, it was further assumed that the cost of incremental
labor and inputs would be only one-half of that assumed at
appraisal. Finally, the SAR assumption that taxes are equal to 17%
of total project costs was retained.
Comments
The 3% economic rate of return (EERR) is much lower than estimated at
appraisal because: (a) the collapse of the project's credit component led to some
fall-off in the planting of tree crops and, more importantly, severely
discouraged farmers from adopting the technologies needed to raise yields of
coffee, cocoa and food crops; (b) it is unlikely that higher-yield technologies
will be adopted in the near future given the imminent demise of SRCC and the time



- 20 -
'hat will be needed to develop alternative--mutualist--credit arrangements; (c)
owing to the fall in world coffee and cocoa prices and the depreciation of the
U.S. Dollar agair.st the CFA Franc, in 1991, the economic farmgate price of coffee
and cocoa was respectively 37% and 34% of the level projected at appraisal. If
the nominal exchange rate is eventually adjusted by the degree expected and in
the direction anticipated, the ERR would improve significantly. No attempt was
made to quantify the social benefits accruing to feeder road constructions had
these benefits been taken into account, the ERR would be somewhat higher.
C. Studies
ObiectivXegs Defined
7.De                at ADpraisal                  Status
Land Tenure         Government to                 Completed      Government
implement study's            end 1988       did not
recommendations                              act on
concerning changes
to sharecropping
practices
Future Strategy     Government to                 Completed      Government
of Coffee/Cocoa     adopt measures                May 1992       did not
Filiere             designed to                                  act on
strengthen filiere



status of Cowernts
Sectlon                                           Description of Covenants                                                     C tomllance
3.01 (e)             The borrower shalt (f) make an initial deposit In the SRCC Prolect Account of (CFAF         11) Required amount deposited; (fi) No counterpart
150,000,000); (if) replenish said Project Account as and When required.                    funds deposited in 1991 or 1992.
3.02               Procurement of the goods, works and consultants  services shall be governed by the          Satisfactory with sawe delays.
provisions of Schedule 3.
3.03               The borrower shall (I) complete and furnfsh to the Assocfatfon the recommendatfons          Draft study completed in April 1988; final study
of the land tenure and sharecropping practices study;                                      completed  end  1988;  short-term  action  plan
(if) implement those of said recommendatfons which are satisfactory to the                 submftted (12/21/89); request that FAO elaborate
Association.                                                                               a "Plantatfon Code" not followed up; study did not
produce any change fn terms of coffee-cocoa
sharecropping.
3.04               The borrower shall cause SRCC to employ an independent and qualified expert, to             Expert provided each year by IRCC Abfdjan. Last
make an annual assessment of the mfrid control program.                                    review in April 1991.
3.05               The borrower shall cause SRCC to: (a) employ an independent expert to undertake             Assessment carried out annually by CIRAD as part
annual reviews of IRCC's research program  and budget; and (b) submit the                  of revfew of allt activities; evaluated annually by
reconmendatfons resulting therefrom.                                                       national research comittee.
3.06               The borrower shall cause SRCC and PCU to submit thefr draft anrual budgets.                 SRCC draft budgets submittedwithin speeffied tme
limit; after 1990 no PCU budgets submitted owing
to liquidation of CNCA and virtual suspension of
credit operations.



Section                   .Description of Covenants                                                                          Camtliance
3.07               The borrower  shalt  cause  SRCC  to  employ  (a) a  Project Panager;  (b) an                Satisfactory, although some delays in recruitment.
internationally-recruited  Technical Advisor; and (c) Heads of the following
Departments: <i) Agricuttural Operations, (Ii) Training, (iii) Civil torks, and
(iv) Administrative and Finance. The qualifications and experience of said staff
shall be acceptable to the Association.
3.08               The borrower shall cause SRCC to coordinate and supervise the use and management             Satisfactory.
of pesticides and fungicides in accordance with satisfactory envirorwnmtat
guidelines.
3.09               The borrower shalt cause SRCC and PCU to grant credit only to applicants who are             Following  liquidation of CNCA seasonal credit
current in servicing credit already made to them.                                           stopped.  After  1990  no  credit  granted  for
planting.
3.10               The borrower shalt annuatly reviev wiuth the Association, coffee and cocoa producer          Although producer prices were reviewed antually
prices, and adjust them thereafter.                                                         the review did not take into account internal
costs or export prices; IDA was never conulted.
3.11               The borrower shall cause (a) PCU to charge an interest rate of 8.5X per annlsm on            Interest was fixed at 8.5x but interest subsidy
credits to farmers; and (b) OPAT: (i) to deposit in PCU Project Account an amount           was not paid by OPAT after 1987 and stipulations
equivalent to 2.52 per annun on all outstanding farmers, credit; and (ii) to                concerning PCl credit lapsed after dissotution of
reschedule all short-term credit assigned to and not repaid by PCU.                         CNCA.
3.12               SRCC to: complete a joint review with the Association of the cocoa program; and              Review was  subject to  lengthy delay and was
(b) implement the recommendations of said review.                                           eventuatlysubsuned underLong-ternmStrategyStudy
(see 3.13).
3.13               The borrower shall conplete and furnish to the Association, for its review and               Studywasgreattydelayed; eventually copleted by
comnments, the recoantendations of the study to design a long-term sectoral strategy        SODETEG consultants in May 1992; so ar no follow-
for coffee and cocoa.                                                                       up action has been taken by Government.
Sectlon                                   DescrlotIon of Covenants                                        _Camlilnce
t'



3.14              ALl staff having received training abroad financed under the Project to remain in         Satisfactory compliance.
their assigments for a period of at least five years after the completion of such
training.
4.01               (b) SRCC and PCU: (if) furnfsh to the Association not later than six months after       Auditing was generally satfsfactory although 1991
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the audited accounts.                    SSRC audit was heevi y qualIfied because disbursed
funds were used for wrong expenditure category.



S.      use of 3*d ReoBurces
A. Staff moout (Staff Weeks)
TASK                                FY86      FY87    rY88    FY89    FY90      FY91    FY92    FY93   TOTAL
Preparation                         19.7                         --      --        -       --      -      19.7
Appralsal                           39.9       1.1      --       -       --        -       -       -      41.0
NeWotfatlons/Board                    --       7.7      --       --      --       --       --       -      7.7
Loan Processing (LOP)                1.8       5.0      --               -        --       --              6.8
Sub-total      61.4      13.8     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    75.2
~~~~...              ...      ---      ...   .  ...     .......... .......... ......
Swpervision                                   6.5      8.7     7.8      8.4     11.3      8.5     6.5    57.7
Project Administration (PAD)         0.1       1.7      --               --        --                      1.8
ProJect Comptetion Report             --        --       -       --      --        --      -      7.0      7.0
Sub-total       0.1       8.2     8.7      7.8     8.4      11.3     8.5    13.5    66.5
...      ---     ...      ...  .    ...     ...  .    ...   ...    .  ... * . ...... .
TOTAL          61.5      22.0     8.7      7.8     8.4      11.3     8.5    13.5   141.7
*sUc=CU    C c    *C  scc-    3CU  w:U:U             U#=SE    533 3



B. UWsslon
Number     Days                     Performance
Stage of                           of          In    Specialization   Rating
Prolect Cyele .onth/year           terson    Fietd   Re3g sented a/   Status  b       Tves of Problems SI
Appraisal         Feb 03. 1986        5        21    ECU, R A, AGR          I/A       N.A.
AUR, AGR
Supervision       Mar 16. 1987         2       05    AGR  FA                 t        -
supervision       Oct 12, 1987        2        11    AE, FA                  I        Minor m_agement problems.
Supervislon       Nay 05, 1988        1        10    fA                      1        Ninor maagement problems.
Superv1slon       Nov 17, 1988        2        08    FA, AGR                 I        Mfnor probtem of availabtl1ty of funds.
Supervislon       Kay 08C  1989       3        6      A6R, FA, ECU           2        Serious problem of availabilfty of funds due to non-payment of
IRAT and IRCC as a resutt of delay in signing the 1988 and 1989
appifed research contracts (IRAT, IRCC) and the 1987 and 1988
Technical Assistance contracts (IRCC).
Supervision       Dec 05, 1989        2        04    A6, ECU                 2        Serflus problems of funds due to non-avaltsbility of
agricultural credit and minor management problems.
Supervision       Dec 03, 1990        4         5    AR, fA, AE,             2        Avaitability of funds and project management.
GCN
Supervisfon       Oct 25, 1991        3        08    FA, AR, ECU             3        Serious problems availability of funds, and development
oblective dobngraded due to inactfon by the Government as
regard future of SRCC's activities and formulatfon of long-term
strategy for the sub-sector.
pj Key to SpecialiZation: AG  a Agriculturist, ECNU Economist, AE a Ag. Economfst, FA a Ffnancal Anatyst, SfA a Senior Finanial Analyst.
IV Key to status: I i Project free or uinor problens; 2 n Moderate problems; 3 * Malor problems; N/A a Not applicable.
/ F a Ffnancial, N a Managerial, T a Technical, 0    Other.



TOO. l1D0 COFPeEICOCOA PROJI.  lemic COSIS AM 88FITt (CCMF MILUlON)s (11) POST ETIOC  ESTIMAIS
FYI     97      9T3      P14     ns P5 P4 Pi?              "a      PT)    "to    Pril      P12   Pnn3    978         pms   nT1P-25
A. ErEIWIIC MIT$
fe t rod cmtnctlgn                  115.0   2D1.3   143.0   230.1   268.4    95.6    9f.8    9S.6    95.6    95,8    95.8    95.8    9S.6    95.6    95.8    9S.
VeAg  s A utriets,                   87.8  .153.6   109.7   175.6    D4.9    732        ?3.Z    73.2    13.2    13.2    13.2    73.2    73.2        A.    73.2    73.2
cautstmt se$c.s                     1.8A     MA,1   132.2   211.5   24.8    56.1    88.1    88.1    B8.l    6al1    86.1    88.1    88.l    88.1    88.1    e8.1
Op1tIn costs                        34.3  604.8   431.5   690.5   665.4   287.4   287.6   2sr.6   267.6  237.6   287.4   28.    28.6   28.6   27.6    MA.6
Setrfs (locat xtsff                 23.9   414.5   296.1   473.7  5S2.7   197.4   197.4   W9.4   19r.74    197.4   19.4   197.4   197.4   19A    19T.4   19r.4
crp faits                          *4.7   1S   805.9   169.4   197.7    70.4    76.8    70.4    70.6 4           7.4    70.4    70.6    70.6    10.4    79.s        7.6
coffee-cocoa rewh                    2.1    4S.7    32.4    S2.2    60.9    21.t    21.7    21.7    78.7    21.7    Zs.?    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    2r.7
Food cosp resew th                   12.1    21.2    15.1    24.2    28.3       O.t 1   16.1    10.     10.      10.1    1.       10.1    10.1   1T.1    10.1   1t.t
Fa_t oenrganltatn (C)                 46      11.4     8.3     3.2    15.4      S.5 J    5       5.5     5.5      S.5     M.5     S.5      5.       S.S     S.S     5.5
Crerilta caffe*-Cvcs platklvh         0.2   *19.4    65.3   136.4    S9.2    54.9    56.9    56.9    56.9    5.9          6.9    56.9    56.9    56.9    5.9    56.9
CredWt ** eto                         211.9   50.4    34.7    57.9    47.5    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    24.1    74.1    24.1
bwtIs..id tretmeent                  22.      39.9    21.5    4S.6    53.1    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.8    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    89.0    19.6
MAI.                               1140.2  1995.3  125.2  2280.3  Z460.3   950.0   90.6   959.6   95s.0    98.0   950.0   950.0   950.0   950.6   950.0   95f.0
LESS TAES                      M1A.    359.2    42.3   3*.?   452.3   161.S    12.7   162.7   12.7  u12.?   162.7   12.7   1Z.7   142.7   U2.r   16*.7
PLUS IUVNTA.L ttA3              171.4   218.8   72.3   35.5 3S      6    333.9   34.4   416.3   431.3   43.    424.0   430.1   44.8   426.3   431.7   426.7
PUlS V* lwus*                   37.9    22.5    68    90.2    49.4    62.0    3.8    104.4   806.3   101.9   102.?   1K.7   165O.Z   10.4   101.2   "9.1
SWt of lawes aid sabgId8au
1T01  I 6l c ICIsC             8t55.7 ?1T7.3  1530.0   536.4  74.9  120.2  1255.5  1301.9  8384.8  131275  1314.0  1322.1  133.4  1384.1  1320.2  115s.1
S. Et16 IE IS
mini
I rem ntl mAput (t7              0.0   -64.5    1.5        7.5   391.5   753.0  1390.0  2046.0  2496.5  4tU.5  2697.5  1942.5  1874.5  2147.0  2506.0  2242.5
Eea  Faragat. P1ies CVAUA       50.4   S16.7   43s.3   m.2   255.5   U48          72.7   2nV.7   328.    36         32.1   32.1   32S.1    58.1   548.1   628.9
Incrnwtl lawit CAN  dl.          *.6   -3U.9    .9.9       2.9   M0A.0   *12.0   281.8   S70.*   819.    7f95.6   4         637.3   415.0  1174.5  1373.5   194.6
Infer at  WIutu  t)             3.r.9   36.3   t0   821.s   9AJ   t23.0  15.0  1J.5  2nn.6  229.5  23SI.S  2M.S  2M.5  28.5  2812.5  266.5
fee. rFeqte Price CFAP/6g      541.9   219,9   Z.3   207.4   1.    16S.3   11.8   208.3   224.7    24.7   z24.7   224.7   224.7   329.2   329.2   425.5
Incrat gSit CA o8t.    23.1   114.3   213.9   170.5   164.9   204.S   2M2.3   382,3   4M.5   50?.T   55.9   62 3.7   630.8   924.2   925.9  It34.
95 Cm"
Inerneutat Samfit rAr F.1.      M.A    35.7    7.4   151.3   288.?   343.8   310.3          7.9   MV.5    ".?    81.2    Or.?   1644    t0.4   111.4   1o1.o
M01A1 IC   C 31TS                    46.6   119.1   83.3   32.9   535.6   "0.2   944.4  1280.6  1S2t.  t39.7   647.8  838    1410.1   24.4  2410.8  281.0
m NET  ErnT 88359171         .1107.1           -1298.7 . 2014.7  -2127.3   3450.  *311.1   *61.1    W2.3    37.  *.6.9    264.7       1.5   888.3  100.7  13.0



rn      Pf2     *nS    VY4        mS     p1      nT       p       Pn9   File    PTl      Prl2      yll   Fnu              PTs 16-2s
A. EWtc tOO'St
r odv w  cotrmio                   2W2   U9.1   U.1   tSl.2    MAl.   109l.           0.6    U.O       a.     03.      asA     OJ6    X.$    85.        43.4    6.8
vdbce aZ ^ "terse                  24.0,  I".1   1".1   ltl.$    M t,12n.0   125.4  t#5.O   *2s.0   125.e   12SA   12.0   USA.   12S.0   12S.9    M3s
cwmtw* o#ricom                     mo0   tW.6   tS.6   14.r  tn2.9  S10.1  120.1   120.t   *21>.1   t20.1  120.1   12D.1   t20.1   Ml.$   t"0.l   20.1
awaim czts                       tffi.2   576.     MA.   SI0.6   ANA    32.1   32.1   32 .1   32.1   32.1   3.1   324.1    M.1    MA    U4.1   324-t
'SowWo tiecot *t f}                "2.9  4W.2    MRt.    *1t.S   U 0.0   21U.9  2W1.V   21.9   21.9    M.9   202.9    WA2   202.9   2M.9   2112.9  M8.9
crop 1qluts                         MI 1   #.1   ISO. I   I0.0,  ttLT    ". .4 SW             6.4    *A       00.4    MA4      9.4     MA.    S.4    8S.4    e9.
tof w-com YrWc                      0 2.2    SS.9    5S.9    52.A   U4O.    32        34.2    36.2    36.2    36.2    36.2    36.2    36.      36.2    3.2    16.2
food crop  *fsm                     43.3    ap.5    211.5    2Tr    mss    ".A        1.t     VM      "A       MI.    "..t     IV       F. 19.l I. t.           IM t.
ftone   ol al t" to)                2S.t   1rt    MI.   16.0    14.11,   11.0    11.0   tI.A    1t.0    t1.O           1.0    *1.0    tI   1.0 n.        1.0    1t.D
crdiu eef (e_#  tZreY              t"MA    19.4   19.4   MO.5    SL           "A      69.11    os      D.      "A.    40.8      MeA   69.1    69.    69.1    .9.
CediNts wso_l                       MA.      #,S   Si.       50.1    03.9    34.5    MAS    U.S    4.5    34.S    34.5    US S           .S    J4.5    34.5    34.S
**I-Olrw<  t_rot"                   *9.0     MY       3.9    n.9    2t.9    2t.9    21 it    21.0      1.9    n4.o     Mv    21.9    2t.9       n.9    24.9    21.9
toTA                              "W  t9na019A   16.6    "   ues.6 UWJ9    M                         916.9     G.9      A     V69,  954.   95.0          6.9   956.  t-9 f 
Less *uKs                     $t1.9   30.r   33.    30.2    m.  106             %6 2.7   M^.?  t^2.7   16.7   SU.?   162.?  162.7   la.?   t62.7   M2.7
ttus I" F VAL      t I MO      w       4vsr       sms*  ns.*&    mn.i   "ra   woe   onj    ous   .2j ' *.0    wo.i   no.1                     S   8.4.   &3.3
nos *m  3wIS*                   n-      e.0.    LA    10.4    =J.   INA    W.6   20.r   2t2,    MJ.   20S.4                    2.4 ?10.4   Xt.1   202.3   192
Mm of som  s"wsi
101RL ttOD"t eemO             &M      -2U4    2219.1  24111A   Z2nX   to60. 17t tA USA    49.2  184.1  18474   106J'  *0U.7  1051.0  lesv.s  104.r
introf    vpt   (tX             o.0  -l t.o   -M.0    *"6.0   40.0  44^2A   am.*  *.0   0lt.0   w.0    6054.4  5"14.0  "%5.0 o2S0,6.o   141.0
Etw  "twit Prlcw CrWAS         90.1   "6.5    M L T16.5   60.3   44.    66.3   60.    42.3   6.6   62.8   4S 62.4    0.8   SM.8   dut.
sfncra"t few t CF& aIt.         0.0   -1n.4  -UeS4   -AA.   31r.o  WWA.  202.2  3MX.4  SM.2   4WV.1  AMPt  40U1  3919.   *n3a.  024.2  3969.t
tneom    OWPIto                 "A -  ^   .0  104.0. IM2.0  MBr.0  3o*s.0  307.o  *700.0  %MJ   SnM.0   S.o   ?Mo.*    MAW^0 ?Ml.*  ?70.0  r7070.
Seen. Fmt* Prtto CtrWAi        ur.0   *16A    04e.4   616.4    5s.J  M5.i   sss9. j       "      SS#J    SO.5     91.s.0   SK.10    M#    I.*   s.          WA
I/tr_blW B*t CFAIall .          40.1   411.2   837.3  1181.2  11.3  tn2.0  2t6S.1  2628.7  PtoS.8  m"S.3  SM.A   MS.9  412S.9  4120.9  4128.9  *021.9
1M61Itot nit CoJ Id%.   '113a    U2.6  11my   Gs.o    M.0  13tS.2 U081.0IM    W?.# ur.t 2.&   U40                           O.r   6MJ    413.S    "S.6   4W.2
OO,Lleg_lC 19UtS                  ULt   4013    WOS.6 t73.0  201.0  400.   MC.t  6SM.2  175.0  SU1.2 eS.1SU                         6U.3  $M.11  081.1          5.2
of| llEitill                 -M"tS  -U45S.1  -UMS.  -*^.6   356.r  2I22.S  S;A   5Z.6  SW.T  60Z9  63.    W2.4  MWA                        4.2    69.S    6M.S
OQI



MAP SECTION



IBRD 19605
s                                     ne   a_t              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~\.  (
GHANA   ?N)
-.)  07  -(  \t                BENIN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   I   f./ ' 
kof
TOGO~~~TG
<  \      , / /j ,4                        ~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,| ,\ ,,; - t vX ~~~~~~~~SRCC EXTENSION SECTORS
I   ; \   Ns   ov I /  ]                    ~~~~~~~~~~Administaie Disrc No.SeorCo
i   I   ,  J/                              KLOTO             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~KPAIJME NORTH  G.K
|    I   jPEYEM  ///   /                               -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KPAUME SOUTH  C.K
!KOUGN S  S,    -AGOU                                                 CK
,    ()    4    H  aAOETA |                                  DA~~~~~~~~~~~~PEE     CK
E    @      v  E 1                                                        G    in   a C
AJj .rOSSAKP      AKPOSSO              C
y  /  >,   /                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~AJ(POSSO NORTH  C 7-
BENA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~GB
<                                                           DLITIME VTOMTPR            BECT       K
BPADJEOUTH            K
C   Coffee~AOUC.
K   Cocoa~KPLEC.
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rdmnnl CoffeeC
s. $XX6&,> \        -\                t~~~~~~j   Cocoa Seed Garden (ZozolcondJi)
t   a/;  }           \               (:~~~~~~~~~~~) Coffee Nurseries (SRCC.IFCC)
1  t   \            2               !   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRCC Headquarters
zy      \            {~~~~~~~ Tarmac Roads
0>/      \            \             -____ ~~~Dirt Roads
bector Umits
KLOMT2ER S)                                                 -* -International BoundAYEes
UKME              TOMEGBEMPETE-BENA     A  1
BADOU ~    ~ MA 198



IBRD 19606
B U R K INA    /
z+-_._ * F A S 0 /
( - o-.,' - -
/ t       TOGO
SAVANES
THIRD COFFEE-COCOA
iDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MANGO s        PROJECT AREA
N \.
CEN KARALANOE
P \OAECTARE
LATERITE ROADS        BLITTA
iRAIL WAYS
oREGON CAPrALS
IE ON SOJNIE                            A
T               AENTRAME BOUND.E.
wa.i. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~md1~~~IMh                    NUATJA
AUrITANTI, I A                                     i
MNfe \|ML                / NIE
U ~~~-           R             TEVIES 
ATLANL CAPXTAN  EI



