FOR OffiCIA
Rqkwi N% P-5599-LA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 30 MILLION
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991
hs document has a resticted distibution and ma  be used b reipients oly in the performacem of
their official datiesm Its contents may not otherwise be disclod witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(July 1991)
Currency Unit - Kip National (KN)
Kip 700   US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACR0=YMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
BCEL        Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IFC         International Financial Corporation
IDA         International Development Agency
IMF         International Monetary Fund
Lao PDR     Lao People's Democratic Republic
MEPF        Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance
NEK         New Economic Mechanism
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
SAC1        First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC2        Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF         Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR         Special Drawing Right
UNDP        United Nations Development-Programme
FIcCAL S ER
October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SaCOND STUMMAL ADJUSEN  CREDIT
CREDIT -SUMR
AgrX v r:         Lao People's Democratic Republic
aM9m=:            SDR 30 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Boscpigtlon:      The proposed IDA Credit would support the consolidation of
the comprehensive reforms undertaken by the Government under
the New Economic Mechanism in the critical areas of
(i) enterprise reform, focussing on privatization and
private sector development; (ii) resource mobilization,
through revenue enhancing policy measures and administrative
capacity building; and (iii) public resource management
upgrading, by developing a healthy public investment
program, a budget management administration better capable
of enforcing budget discipline and conducting short-term
fiscal policy, a more compact and cost-effective
administration, and a reduced but more motivated civil
service. The credit of SDR 30 million (US$40 million
equivalent) would finance general imports of goods to meet
part of Lao PDR's short-term external financing requirement,
at a time when Soviet aid is pulling out. Counterpart funds
would be available to the budget to help fund operation and
maintenance expenditures and support an expanding investment
program.
Akelilsd  aLnd    The benefits of the proposed operation would be seen
B.abk:            in (i) a recovery in domestic savings, through resource
mobilization, tighter financial supervision over state
enterprises and the expansion of a profit-oriented private
sector; (ii) & more efficient allocation of resources thanks
to improved budgetary management, more systematic investment
programming and the development of a sound regulatory and
legal framework for business activities. The program should
also contribute to building a more diversified economy, less
concentrated on a limited number of activities (rice,
electricity, timber). Sustaining macroeconomic balance in
the medium-term hinges upon institutional reforms, which
will take time to firmly root. Substantial technical
assistance accompanies this operation to help resolve
technical problems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormar.vt
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank au: I- 5  41.



- ii -
Estimated         The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed in
Ddsbau28memss:    two equal tranches of SDR 15 million each (US$20 million
equivalent). The first tranche would be available for
disbursement upon effectiveness of the Credit, whicri is
expected to take place in October 1991. Retroactive
financing of up to US$8 million is proposed. Release of the
second tranche is planned for September 1992 after
completion of a number of key actions upon which the success
of the program depends.
A&praisaal Renort: Not Applicable
IBRD 22534R



IAO PDR
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREl;T
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page NK.
CREDIT  SU AR    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .i
I.    COUNTRY pQLICIES AMD THE ASSXCIATION'S  ASSISTANCE STRAT£OY            1
The New Economic Mechanism  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Performance under the First Structural Adjustmen4t Prog-. .           2
The Current Agenda  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
The Government's Adjustment Program   . . . . . . . . . . .           5
The IMF Program    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
External Financing Requirement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
ID& Operations Strategy   .8...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  a
Summary Assessment ................ .                                12
II.   TH SA2PRORA    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
Strategy   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Enterprise Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          13
Rssource Mobilization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          18
Public Resource Managemnt  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           19
Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          22
Social Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
XII.  THE PROQOSED CREDIT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
Credit Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
Monitoring and Tranche Release  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
Credit Administration   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
Technical Assistance and Aid Coordination   . . . . . . . .          26
IV.   R.C.HW=I.N  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               27
A
I.    Key Macroeconomic Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          28
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Lao PDR  . . . . . . . .           33
III.  Supplementary Data Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           34
IV.   Government's Letter of Development Policy   . . . . . . . .           36
V.    Matrix of Policy Actions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           45



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROCRAM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 30.0 million (USS$ 40.0 million equivalent) to the
Lao People's Democratic Republic on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
to support the Goverrment's structural adjustment program for the period 1991-
93. The MF is providing SDR 22 million through a Strwetural Adjustment
Facility (SAP) arrangement running until 1992.
2.      An economic report, entitled 'Lao People's Democratic Republic:
Issues in Public Economicas (No. 8532-LAO, dated August 10, 1990) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1990. Annsx 1 provides
selected economic indicators for the country.
I.  COCnTn1YOLICIES AND THE ASSOCMIATON'S ASSISTACE STRATEGY
The New Egoomc Mechanis
3.      The Lao People's Democratic Republic has already gone a long way in
its transition from central planning to a market economy. This reflects the
determination with which the "cold turkey" approach, adopted at the Party
Congress of 1986, has been carried through. This comprehensive economic
strategy of moving swiftly to a market system, known as Othe Now Economic
Mechanism", was aimed at exposing the economy to market forces, opening up
trade and foreign investment opportunities, strengthening the role of the
private sector and improving macroeconomic management. Initial actions
included the freeing of virtually all prices, the elimination of consumer and
other subsidies, the unification of official exchange rates and the market
determination of the exchange rate, the self management of state enterprises
and the authorization of private activities. This was accompanied by a
massive devolution of administrative and fiscal authority to local
governments. Despite some initial setbacks, the Government has persevered
with its reform program. The recent Party Congress strongly reaffirmed the
commitment of the country to a market economy. Given the broad scope of the
reform program and the swiftness of its implementation, it was inevitable that
stresses would emerge in economic management. The proposed operation rests on
a thorough assessment of the difficulties which emerged through the reform
process and constitutes the second phase of a comprehensive effort at solving
them.



2
erformnce -under the First StructurAl Adjustment Program
4.       Credit Historv.  Performance under the First Structural Adjustment
Credit (SACl) was largely satisfactory. The initial reforms outlined above
had originally been undertaken on the Government's own initiative. Thev were
subsequently supported by the First Structural Adjustment Program (Credit
2037-LA) approved in June 1989, as well as an IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility arrangement (approved in September 1989) and an ADB Agricultural
Adjustment Loan (approved in August 1989). The First Structural Adjustment
Credit (SACl) for an amount of US$40 million became effective in August 1989.
The first tranche was released upon effectiveness. The second tranche was
released on schedule in June 1990, in view of the country's compliance with
the agreed conditionality and of its satisfactory implementation of the
overall adjustment program. As of July 7, 1991, US$1.5 million remained
undisbursed.
5.       The program supported by SAC  has been implemented in full. It
included policy actions in the following five fields: (i) exchange rate and
griej reforms: all prices (except public utilities but including those of the
previous "strategic goods") have been liberalized and the official exchange
rate was brought to the level of the parallel market and maintained at that
level; (ii) entegrrise reform: autonomy has been extended to almost all state
enterprises and restrictions on the operation (e.g., access to inputs and
credit, licensing requirements) of private firms were lifted; the abolition of
all subsidies to state enterprise is also furthering fair competition between
private and public firms; (iii) financial sector development: the single
multi-purpose State Bank of Laos has been transformed into a central bank (the
Bank of the Lao PDR) and its former branches have been restructured into
six autonomous commercial banks; interest rates were increased to levels which
are positive in real terms and their structure was rationalized, so as to
eliminate interest rate subsidies; (iv) fiscal reforms: on the revenue side,
Government adopted at the outset of the program a major tax reform,
introducing a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a value-added tax.
Among other public tariff adjustments, it also raised the domestic price of
electricity by more than 70 percent. On the expenditure side, the payment of
wages in kind was abolished, the civil service was reduced by 19 percent
between 1988 and ond-1990 and the appropriation for O01 ias increased in the
1990 budget; and (v) exteLnal debt management: the debt reporting system has
been centralized in the central bank.
6.       Thus, apart from supporting further progress in structural reforms,
the first operation emphasized the need for resource mobilization efforts.
This emphasis proved timely and helped the economy overcome a period of major
stress which had arisen from the adverse impact of the initial round of
reforms on public sector savings. Actions taken by the Government under SAC1
were successful in taming the resulting inflationary pressures and engendering
a healthy recovery in output.
7.       Macroeconomic Developments.  The supply response was initially slow,
as expected, in large measure because the 1987-88 drought substantially



3
reduced agricultural and hydroelectric exports, thereby reducing the country's
capacity to import raw materials and spare parts. Growth, however, revived in
1988, accelerated in 1989 and continued at a sustained pace in 1990. This
recovery was supported by a 40 percent shift in the domestic terms of trade
between agriculture and industry, between 1986 and 1989, due tc the price
liberalization and the adjustment of the exchange rate. The same phenomenon
led to a redistribution of the national income in favor of the private sector.
The resulting sustained improvement in private disposable income considerably
alleviated any adverse social impact that the reforms might have had.
8.       Despite the magnitude of the policy changes, the authorities have
been successful, under SAC1, in stabilizing the economy. Inflation had picked
up during the first part of 1989 but this flare-up was short-lived. After
peaking in the summer of 1989, inflation has steadily decelerated. It was 68
percent between December 1988 and December 1989, but had declined to 22
percent during 1990. As of end of July 1991, the annual inflation rate was
down to 13 percent, i.e. within the program target of 14 percent for the whole
year. Reflecting also the impact of prudent macroeconomic policies, the
exchange rate has remained at kips 700 per US$ since January 1990, in line
with market developments.
9.       This success in taming inflation was achieved primarily by stopping
and then reversing the deterioration of public sector savings, while financing
the remaining deficit through foreign aid. Both state enterprise and
Government savings were adversely affected by the reforms: consolidated public
sector savings declined from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1986 to a negative
3.3 percent in 1989. But these two sub-sectors reacted differently: while
Government endeavored to cut expenditures by a cumulative 27 percent in real
terms between 1986 and 1989, the expansion of credit to state enterprises led,
in 1989, to a 90 percent increase in liquidity. Subsequently, owing to a
drastic curtailment in the credit extended to these same enterprises,
liquidity growth was limited to 14 percent in 1990.
10.      The deterioration of the external current account was less than
anticipated under SAC1. Exports of goods and non-factor services grew very
strongly in 1989-90, at an estimated 17 percent per year in real terms, thanks
in part to the recovery in hydroelectricity exports. On the other hand,
import growth (about 9 percent per year in real terms) was only slightly
higher than output growth. Consequently, the current account deficit grew
from 18.4 percent of GDP in 1988 to 19.0 perce.t in 1990, well within the
bounds of available foreign assistance. The maintenance of a market-based
exchange rate undoubtedly contributed to this result.
11.      Measures supported by SAC1 were instrumental in bringing about
macroeconomic stabilization. The June 1989 tax reform succeeded in reversing
the deterioration of revenue collection: fiscal revenues, which had declined
to 9.5 percent of GDP in 1989, rebounded to an estimated 12.7 percent in 1990,
while government investment started growing again at an average annual rate of
7.6 percent in 1989-90 after having declined at a rate of 9.0 percent a year
between 1986 and 1988. Furthermore, the decision in August 1989 to maintain
interest rates positive in real terms helped curtail the demand for credit.



4
The disposable income of the public sector' thus regained about 4.7 percent of
GDP in 1990, permitting some recovery in both public expenditures and public
sector savings (from -3.3 percent of CDP in 1989 to -1.8 percent in 1990).
Finally, the inflow of balance of payments support, combined vith a recovery
in electricity and log exports. btabilized the exchange rate and provided non-
inflationary financing to the economy.
12.      The price, exchange rate, financil-l and trade reforms pursued under
SACI have laid the foundation for a resumption of growth based on a more
efficient allocation of resources.   Thanks to a relatively good endowment in
fertile land and an extremely low population density, the potential for
sustained growth exists in Lao PDR. The gains achieved so far will remain
short torm ones if they are not consolidated by fresh efforts to tackle
outstanding obstacles to the sustained development of the country. Despite
impressive inroads, private participation in the modern sector remains small,
wages are unsustainably low in the civil service and delinked from labor
productivity in the public enterprise sector, and development expenditures are
still undAsirably low. On this last score, in particular, it is clear that
recent growth performanco, however, carnot be sustained without. a major
increase in investment, in particular in social and physical infrastructure,
without which markets cannot operate. While substantial growth in private
activities is expected in the modern sector, this sector will not be in a
position to play its full role in the development of the country unless such
basic public services begin to develop. The key policy issue now is to
strengthen public savings performance to support such an investment effort,
building upon the initial achievements of SACI, while bolstering the fledgling
private sector.
The Current Age
13.      In view of the mapnitude of the task, it had not been envisaged that
all the problems of moving this economy from central planring to a market
system could be solved in the short time-span of a single adjustment
operation: SAC1 was therefore explicitly seen as the first in a series of
adjustment operations. The positive results achieved so far, especially
compared to other countries undertaking similar endeavors, amply justify
continued support of the program. The lmplementation of the reforms brought
about positive results in terms of growth, resource mobilization, external
balance, and inflation.  It also brought with it new, and sometimes
unanticipated, challenges to the authorities.
14.      The market reforms unveiled the vast inefficiency of the state
ant&lgri.ssa which had been concealed by price distortions: when exposed to
market forces, most state enterprises could not adjust their selling prices
sufficiently to recoup the increased cost of their inputs and wage payments,
in the face of the increased competition from abroad and from a more dynamic
private sector. Moreover, as common to reforming socialist economies, once
Consolidated fiscal revenues plus net transfers plus state enterprise
surpluses.



5
the corset of central regulations disappeared, employee componsation In
autonomous state enterprises started to absorb an increasing share of
enterprise gross income, reducing profits available for reinvestment.
15.      The resource mobilization base on which SACI started to build,
however, has turned out to be weaker than assumed at the time. The public
resource mobilization system under the central plasnning system was highly
inefficient due primarily to its heavy reliance on the forced procurement by
Government and state enterprises of goods at below-market prices and exchange
rates. Reduced state enterprise profitability ricocheted on the dsgggt
through a shrinking of the revenue base. Moreover, the introduction of a
proper tax system, in lieu of the previous system of pooling enterprise
surpluses with the budget, had to be carried out by an administration with
scast experience in this field. First attempts in 1988 at creating a modern
tax system proved overly complex and therefore counter-productiva. Hence,
state enterprise transfers to the budget declined by an estimated 7.4 percent
of GDP between 1986 and 1989. In addition, the abolition of forced
procurement at administered prices and exchange rates represented a cost to
the current budget eqv valent to 4.9 percent of GDP over the same period.
16.      Finally, the ab5andonment of central planning left the administration
with as yet undeveloped instruments of public Manag&eMf. The capacity of the
Governmnt to formulate development programs and to conduct fiscal policies in
a market economy was particularly affected, .snd the inherited organization of
public administrations proved itself ill-designed to carry out Governmnt's
new tasks. In particular, the existing pattern of decentralization made the
fiscal squeeze even worse on the central Government. While rich provir is
were keeping the majority of their revenues for themselves, the central
Government, notwithstanding the autonomy principle, had to come to the rescue
of poorer provinces to maintain a minimum level of public services.
17.       The experience gained during the first years of fiscal and
enterprise reforms has led the Government to revisit the design of its
enterprise and fiscal reforms, with a view to deepening the former and
broadening the latter. The initial thrust of reforms was the decentralization
of economic decision-making. The Government now seeks to complement these
achievements by developing mechanisms that ensure greater financial
discipline. In this spirit, current government policy towards state
enterprise emphasizes privatization and the development of the private se.:tor.
It also endeavors to strengthen public finance management and to deal with the
unfinished agenda of bringing back fiscal revenues at least to their
historical level, which it intends to pursue with continued vigor.
The GOvernment' s Adjustment Program
18.      The Government adopted in early 1991 a second-year Policy Framework
Paper which lays out its overall medium-term program and the macroeconomic
framework which will underpin its implementation. Growth is expected to
average at least 5 percent over the 1991-93 period based on continued
improvement in infrastructure. To make this possible, the government
investment to GDP ratio is projected to expand from 13.5 percent of GDP in



6
1990 to 15.2 percent in 1993. The authorities do not expect growth to arise
mechanically from investment: they place considerable emphasis on Improving
the allocation of resources, thanks to an expanding private sector and a
redirection of investment priorities. As to the latter, the Government's main
priorities are shifting from creating and keeping afloat state enterprises to
developing (1) infrastructure, supported by higher user fees, and (ii) human
resources accompanied by significant administrative reforms; direct
involvement in agriculture would be scaled down and restructured.
19.      The generation of a current fiscal surplus, primarily through
resource mobilization efforts, is the key component of the macroeconomic
program, as well as of the proposed SAC2. It will serve the twin objectives
of supporting the country's investment effort and ensuring that the inflow of
foreigr, savings, which is being mobilized, contribute to this effort rather
than to an inevitably short-lived consumption boom. The current fiscal
account deficit (excluding grants), which is projected at less than one
percent of GDP in 1991, should be eliminated in 1992 and a surplus is
projected for 1993. Since expenditures have already fallen below appropriate
levels, the achievement of this objective will be sought primarily through
revenue mobilization measures, includinL the introduction of excise taxes,
Improvements in the sales tax and further increase in public tariffs and user
fees (see para. 40). The target would be for revenue to increase by about 1.5
percentage points of GDP by 1993. Current expenditures, as a share of GDP,
would be contained at their 1990 level. Legitimate needs for current
expenditure increases would therefore be addressed through a prioritization
anu rationalization of expenditures, particularly at the level of local
governments -- which control half of the consolidated fiscal revenues. The
achievement of these revenue and expenditure objectives will not be possible
without a complete revamping of public finance management techniques and the
establishment of national public finance administrations (see paras. 46-47).
20.      While substantial growth in private investment is expected, this will
not become the driving force of development until basic infrastructure makes
such investments profitable. Still in its endeavor to build such an
infrastructure base, the Government will hardly have any recourse to private
savings beyond the proceeds of the privatization program, hence will not
compete with the private sector for scarce investable funds. The overall
budget deficit (including onlending of foreign funds) will continue to be
almost exclusively financed through foreign aid and the stance of fiscal
policies will therefore remain neutral. During 1991-94, about 30 percent of
the overall deficit will be financed by IDA credits.
21.      A continuation of tight monetary policies is essential to consolidate
the recent stabilization. Thanks to a conservative fiscal policy, bank
financing of the Government will remain marginal. The control of domestic
credit will increasingly rely on the use of indirect policy instruments rather
than on moral suasion or quantitative ceilings. The maintenance of positive
real interest rates is key to dampening credit demand and enhancing the demand
for bank deposits. The recently introduced reserve requirement will be
actively used and the rates at which banks refinance themselves with the
central bank will be adjusted accordingly to prevailing credit and liquidity



7
conditions. Furthermore, greater wage discipline through privatization and
the use of temporary public wage regulation will help curtail credit demands
from state enterprises. On this basis, inflation is expected to reach the
level prevailing in trading partner countries by the end of 1903. These
policies will also help maintain a stable, market-related exchange rate.
22.      To attai' higher output growth, larger imports of investment and
production goods will be needed. Exports are projected to continue to grow
faster than output, at an annual growth rate of about 8 percent in volume.
The prospect is therefore for some widening of the current account deficit
through 1992. Thereafter, the current account deficit is expected to
stabilize and gradually decline as a percentage of GDP. This would
nevertheless allow the country to maintain a strong reserves position,
although the latter would gradually decline in terms of weeks of imports to
about 12 weeks in 1993.
23.      This framework and the policies that support its attainmont are laid
out in more detail in the second-year Policy Framework Paper, which was
endorsed by the Committee of the Whole in March 1991 and the DMF Board in
April 1991.
The InF PXRorM
24.       The IMF approved a three-year Structural Adjustment Facility
arrangement on September 18, 1989. A second-year arrangement was approved on
April 8, 1991. The Lao PDR borrowed amounts equivalent to SDR 5.86 million
and SDR 8.79 million under the first and second annual SAP arrangements,
respectively. The program aims at limiting the expansion of domestic
liquidity to 7 percent in 1991.  To achieve this goal, bank financing to the
budget will be minimal, while the growth of credit to state enterprises will
be limited to 16 percent. Given the reserve target of the program, this will
allow for a large growth of credit to joint-ventures and the private sector.
The policy benchmar!' cover: (i) the centralization of foreign exchange
management with the central bank; (ii) the opening of a formal discount window
at the central bank; (iii) the setting of the central bank lending rate at a
positive level in real terms and the issuance of guidelines indicating minimum
deposit rates for commercial banks; and (iv) the maintenance of the difference
between the official and parallel exchange rates below 10 percent.
25.      The latest IMF Article IV consultation discussions were held in
September 1990 and the staff report was released on November 1, 1990. Apart
from short-term technical assistance provided in the areas of central banking,
tax administration and balance-of-payments and monetary statistics, the  W
has assigned since January 1989 a resident central banking expert to the Bank
cf the Lao PDR to assist in the establishment of the new central bank and key
operational functions. In addition, the IMF has placed a tax and a customs
expert with the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Firance to assist in improving
tax and customs administration under a UNDP-financed, Bank-executed technical
assistance program. Finally, the IMF has opened a resident mission in
Vientiane in October 1990.



8
Lc=ernal Finantin ReautreMent
26.      To support tkw necessary level of investment in productive capacities
and infrastructure as well as to improve currently underfunded social
services, the external financing requirement would average US$180 million per
year over the 1991-93 period. In view of the withdrawal of Soviet aid, this
requirement calls for an increased mobilization of the Western donors and
burden sharing among them.   Thus, official transfers are expected to provide
US$70 million annually towards covering this requirement. In addition,
private investment, commercial loans and private transfers are projected to
average about US$27 million. The remaining financing would come from
multilateral institutions, of which US$46 million from IDA and US$41 million
from ADB, i.e. respectively 25.1 and 22.6 percent of the external financing
requirement. Continued balance of payments support is essential to the
viability of the agreed framework, to finance the requirements for non-project
imports and to cover local cost requirements while resource mobilization
efforts are underway. The loss in early 1991 of Soviet balance-of-payments
support, which provided resources to the budget equivalent to an average 3
percent of GDP in 1989-90, has made the need for such assistance from the
multilateral agenr-es even more urgent.
IDA GOnAtios trLAteA
27.      The Association has played and will continue to play an important
role in the design and implementation of Lao PDR's economic reform program and
in the mobilization of the needed financial resources to support the program.
Policy Framework Papers, prepared annually by the Government, IDA and the IMF,
establish an appropriate policy umbrella for IDA adjustment and investment
operations. The objectives of the Association's country assistance strategy
are to: (a) support government efforts to move to a market economy while
maintaining macroeconomic stability; (b) assist in development of the physical
capital needed to expand production and exports; (c) support human resource
development, both for alleviating poverty and for increasing labor
productivity; and (d) promote a sustainable use of the country's natural
resources. Both our lending program and our economic and sector work program
are geared toward these objectives. Since 1986, when the Association resumed
lending to Lao PDR, nine credits have been made, totalling US$187 million.
About 218 of IDA assistance has been provided to support the economic reform
program through a quick disbursing adjustment operation which provides finance
for the balance of payments. In the investment projects, the main focus has
been the rehabilitation of essential infrastructure, with about 60% of IDA
assistance going to the energy, telecommunications and roads sectors, which
were all badly damaged during the war. About 11% went to agriculture (a
sector with enormous potential for economic growth) and St to industry.
Direct investment in thi education and health sectors has thus far been low
despite the importance of these sectors to improving human resources for the
country's development; however, more operations are anticipated in the next
few years.



9
28.      Puture Country Lendinz ODeration.  The overall level and pace of IDA
assistance to Lao PDR will take into account the progress made in
implementation of the reform program and the feasibility of specific
operations. The planned volume of lettding for FY92-94 includes six operations
(including the proposed SAC2) for a total amount of US$140 million equivalent.
The primary goal of the Association's country assistance strategy will be to
broaden the economic recovery initiated since the economic reform of 1985, by
pursuing the objectives described above.
29.      During FY92-94, it is likely that about 28% of total lending volume
to Lao PDR will continue to be in the form of fast-disbursing adjustment
operations in view of the need to maintain an appropriate level of resource
transfer in support of policy reform and growth. The proposed SAC2 Credit
would provide support for essential imports based upon continued satisfactory
implementation of the reform program. Criteria by which performance would be
judged include improvement in public expenditure management, including issues
of investment composition and adequacy of recurrent expenditure, civil service
pay and employment reform, and restructuring/privatization of state
enterprises. While maintaining support for general economic adjustment,
lending will increasingly be focused on infrastructure rehabilitation,
forestry management and human resource developmet. Ensuring adequate
implementation capacity and sufficient provision for future recurrent
expenditures will also be critical considerations in the design of all
projects.
30.      Specific issues in sectoral management will be addressed through the
orientation of IDA lending.  In the urieul=ual sector, proposed investment
operations aim to support increased and more efficient agricultural production
through provision of improved agricultural services such as extension,
research, credit, land management and titling, and basic rural infrastructure,
particularly marketing facilities. Lending would also support the
Government's efforts in the forestry sector to better manage and improve the
utilization of forest resources. The Government is placing high priority on
discouraging the practice of shifting agriculture and slash-and-burn
practices, which are currently used on about 40% of all agricultural land,
streamlining commercial logging, and simultaneously implementing a policy of
maximizing regeneration and rehabilitation of the degraded forests.
Complementing these policies, the Government intends to intensify and develop
permanent agriculture in up- and low-land and other appropriate areas, which
should also decrease deforestation.
31.      In the tran=ort sector the emphasis of IDA assistance is on
developing the backbone of a national network and rehabilitating feeder roads
in major agricultural areas. The Government cooperated with the Association
and the UNDP in carrying out a National Transport Study which serves as the
first transport master plan for further expansion of the network. The plan
will identify investment priorities and recommend the development of a network
system to provide access from industrial or agricultural surplus zones to
domestic and export markets. In this context, the Government is also
reviewing the role of user charges, which are currently very low, and
considering selective increases, particularly in vehicle license fees, to



10
foster a more efficient use of the network and provide resources for road
maintenance. On the basis of this study as well as a more specific
maintenance study to be carried out under the recently approved Highway
Improvement Project (Cr. 2218-LA, approved on M(arch 21, 1991), the Government
will adopt by end-1991 a program of road maintenance and introduce new
measures including increased user charges to help fund this program. Starting
from 1991, the Government has allocated a core budgetary envelope for
maintenance and will review the maintenance versus investment allocation on an
annual basis.
32.      The strategy in the industr  sectr is geared toward increased
production efficiency and export market development. Since 1985, this policy
has been reflected in a revamping of the incentive and regulatory framework
for state enterprises and the authorization of private sector participation in
industry. A liberal Foreigr. Investment Code issued in mid-1988 has permitted
the creation of some joint venture and leasing arrangements with foreign
partners. However, as there is still a lack of familiarity with international
practices in this field, IDA and UNDP technical assistance has been arranged
to strangthen foreign investment promotion.
33.      In the energy sector, the Government's aim is twofold: developing
electricity production and distribution facilities and enhancing the
efficiency of its use. The public investment program includes rural
electrification projects, new transmission lines, and the construction of a
new hydroplant. The dual nature of the Lao energy sector, as both domestic
infrastructure and provider of the largest export commodity, makes its
appropriate pricing crucial to achieving an optimal allocation of available
production between domestic consumption and exports. Under present
electricity contracts, Thailand is committed to buy any quantity that is not
sold on the domestic market. To achieve this balance, domestic electricity
prices, which were increased by about 75% in January 1990 and 43% in June
1991, will continue to be adjusted in steps so as to cover the long-run
marginal cost of low-voltage production.
34.      Given the country's extremely high rates of illiteracy and infant
mortality, lending to the human resources sector will be geared toward
rehabilitating, improving quality and eventually expanding the coverage of
basic health and education services. The main focus of IDA lending under
preparation for education will be on building the local management capacity of
the private and public sector, through assistance to improve the quality of
vocational technical education, upgrade the effectiveness of higher education
and strengthen the management and financing of non-formal training activities.
In the health sector, operational priority will be given to reducing the high
rates of infant mortality, child mortality, maternal mortality, and fertility,
and to increasing work output, labor productivity, and life expectancy. In
order to achieve these objectives, IDA would support Government plans to: (a)
expand the program of immunizations to control the six vaccine-preventible
childhood diseases; (b) control diarrheal disease through effective use of
oral dehydration therapy by mothers; (c) provide maternal and child health
services including birth spacing, growth monitoring, nutritional surveillance,
and promotion of breastfeeding; (d) control acute respiratory infection



11
through effective education of mothers in early recognition of pneumonia
symptoms and the availability of antibiotic therapy; and (a) control malaria
through diagnostic capability, community oducation and participation, and
availability of drugs.
35.      E=±ronvir.  The major environmental issues in Lao PDR are
associated with the management of its forest resources. The Government is
keenly aware that deforestation due to encroachment, shifting cultivation and
unregUlated logging is a serious onvironmental problem. A National Conference
on Forestry, held in May 1989, recognized that overexploitation of forest
resources had reached a stage where indiscriminate felling and burning of
forests had to cease and that the protection of forests needed to be placed at
the forefront of forestry and agricultural activities. The Conference set
ambitious targets for preservation and reforestation. After a temporary ban
on log exports, the Government decided to rely on taxation and production
quotas as interim measures to regulate logging activities, pending the
achievement of a thorough policy review. The Government has now made
substantial progress toward the latter in the context of preparing a Tropical
Forestry Action Plan which defines a feasible approach to the issues of
sustainable forestry exploitation, taxation, pricing, land use, watershed
management, and reforestation actions. This report was presented at a Round
Table meeting with the Government and interested donors in December 1991. A
IDA-Forestry Project under preparation will help establish the proper
institutions and incentive framework for sustainable forestry use. In regard
to wildlife protection, in October 1989, the Council of Ministers issued a
decree on the protection and conservation of aquatic and wild animals, and
hunting and fishing.
36.      Cofinanig.  IDA lending operations like those for education and
transport have attracted a large volume of cofinancing from various donors
active in those sectors. In addition,-Association sector studies in energy,
transport, industry and population/health will facilitate improved aid
coordination by providing a policy framework and sector strategy which can be
drawn on by other donors. There has already been active participation by
specific multilateral and bilateral agencies in carrying out several of these
studies, and this type of cooperation is expected to continue in the future.
37.      &AgigWle fgr Ban Adiusgen  L&nding. The Lao PDR is a socialist
country in transition. As the experience of similar economies has shown, the
fiscal situation is key to the viability of the reform effort. Restoring a
firm fiscal situation, under vastly changed policy and institutional
circumstances, is an endeavor which will take some time to bear fruit. In the
meantime, program support is needed for the reforms to proceed in a reasonably
stable environment with an appropriate level of investment. The withdrawal
this year of Soviet aid, particularly of balance of payments support, makes
adjustment lending from the Bank even more necessary.
38.      Owing to a lively policy dialogue and expanding project work, the
World Bank has become, over the years, a trusted partner for the Government of
the Lao PDR in the design and implementation of reforms. This operation gives
the Bank the opportunity to support the implementation of the recommendations



12
set forward In our recent economic report entitled Issues in Public
Economics". Implementation is already underway thanks in part to the
technical advice provided through (i) Bank economic and sector work, (ii)
technical assistance programs and (iiI) the early stages of preparation of the
proposed SAC2. Furthermore, Bank involvement in the design of the Public
Investment Program and of the broader budget policy, which Is supported by the
conditionality of this operation, provides reassurance that IDA resources are
directed to their most beneficial uses.
SUmma  Aissessmnt
39.     Lao PDR is in a period of rapid economic and social evolution,
largely precipitated by the economic restructuring under its reform program.
Given the difficulties inevitably associated with economic reform, together
with the problem of institutional and management bottlenecks constraining
timely project implementation, a period of consolidation seems warranted.
Therefore, IDA's strategy for the next few years emphasizes portfolio
management, with particular attention devoted to supervision of ongoing
operations, and to training local staff in a number of basic project
Implementation areas such as disbursements, procurement, accounting and
auditing and to continue deepening the policy dialogue at the sectoral level.
New lending operations are planned at the relatively rapid level of two
projects or lending of US$50 million equivalent a year. However, if external
disturbances arise for which balance-of-payment support is required,
additional funds would be allocated, provided that the economic reform is
progressing satisfactorily. To date, progress by the Goverrment in carrying
out the comprehensive set of macroeconomic and sectoral reforms set out in the
Policy Framework Papers has been satisfactory. Nevertheless, it must be
recognized that, given the magnitude of existing imbalances and the currently
very low levels of production, adjustment will be a long-term process. For
the next decade at least the country wiLl continue to depend heavily on
external assistance to finance imports that are essential for restoring the
capital structure and providing consumer goods that are necessary complements
to the reform of financial incentives.
II. THE SAC2  OGMU
Strategy
40.     The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit comprises three
components. Each of them should enhance domestic savings and improve resource
allocation and thereby raise investment and growth. In most instances, the
policies are already in place. The main thrust of the program ahead is to
strengthen the country's implementation capacity, to establish the
institutions which can carry through these policies and to develop the
enabling environment under which they will bear fruit. The proposed Policy
Matrix (Annex 1) outlines a detailed action program, in the following three
areas of emphasis:-



13
(a)  Enterorise Regorm: The ob gctiv  is to further the development of a
profit-oriented enterprise sector.  The key  i tru mnt to be used is
the strengthening of the Government's privatisation program. Other
important measures are (i) the introduction of "bottom-line"
financial supervision of enterprises prior to their privatization;
(it) the development of a legal and regulatory framework supportive
to private sector development; and (iii) the promotion of foreign
investment. The exoected outcome is a strengthening of enterprise
profitability and hence indirectly also of the tax base.
(b) lEsoulre Mobilization: The objecivx is to restore fiscal resource
mobilization at least to its historical level.  The instoents used
are a range of taxes, public tariffs and user fees adjustment. The
emphasis is on those measures which are easiest to administer or
contribute to facilitating revenue collection. The expected outcome
is to strengthen the budget.
(c)  Publlc Lesoue Manag2m=t: The  h±ective is to develop transparent
open, and universal public procedures in order to achieve a more
efficient deployment of public financial and human resources. The
iMstMents are to provide the public administration with modern
techniques of investment programing, budget manage_ent, civil
service management and administrative organization. The aggexted
MiMc2M2s are a healthy public investment program, a fiscal
administration capable of enforcing budget discipline, particularly
on local governments, and to conduct short-term fiscal policy, a more
compact and cost-effective administration, and a reduced but more
motivated civil service.
rteD,gLse Reform
41.      Privatization is the centerpiece of Government policy towards state
enterprises. In 1990, there were an estimated 640 public enterprises with
about 47,000 employees under the supervision of national and provincial
authorities, and a large but unknown number of smaller public enterprises
under the supervision of districts and villages. The authorities had
originally hoped that giving their managers almost unlimited autonomy, in
1988, would turn around enterprise poor performance, but it did not: without
an effective owner, profits were eroded by wage increases as well as purchase
and sale contracts benefitting the managers rather than the firm, and their
assets were rapidly dissipating.
42.      The Government has since become committed to privatizing all but a
few "strategic" firms. In an initial phase in 1989, about 40 firms (ouat of
70) were privatized in Vlentiane in often "spontaneous" and non-transparent
transactions, fre;quently under lease arrangements. After this initial
experience, the Government adopted a vigorous and ambitious Privatization
Program. The Program aims at raising the transparency, fairness and
efficiency impact of privatization and, at the same time at accelerating the
divestiture policy. In short, the Government is determined, through this



14
Program, to privatize as fast as possible while safeguarding the public
interest.
43.      In spite of this ambitious agenda, a number of state enterprises may
remain state-owned for some years. Their supervision in the meantime has to
be reformed in order to prapare them for future privatization, arrest the
depletion of their assets and ensure profit orientation. Public enterprises
will establish Boards of Directors, and will be converted into joint-stock or
limited liability companies, cooperatives or partnership. Moreover, their
supervision shall be set up in ways that facilitate future privatization.
Subject to further review of the practical implementation conditions, the
strategy being pursued is to establish central institutions in charge of
financial supervision of state enterprises under the form of diversified
competing holding companies that acquire the expertise to privatize their
firms, and that could themselves be privatized through the issuance of equity
to the general public. At the same time, the Government will also continue
improving the business environment, especially for the fast emerging private
sector, and strengthen its promotion of foreign investment.
44.      SAC2 would support the deepening of Government program towards
enterprise reform in the areas of (i) privatization; (ii) financial
supervision of state enterprises; (iii) business framework development; (iv)
foreign investment promotion.
45.      Prij izagion:  The Goverment is firmly committed to proceed with
the Privatiation Xrogram, which has begun in 1991, after an initial
experimental phase in 1990. The Privatization Program will initially proceed
on two tracks. The first track involves auctioning off all the smAll
enterprises within three years. The second track covers larger enterprises
which will be privatized through more customized transactions, especially
bidding, negotiation and joint ventures. Between twenty and thirty larger (by
Lao standards) firms would be privatized per year. Track (i) and (ii) of the
Privatization Program will permit a reduction of about 30 percent of the size
of the public enterprise sector (in terms of employment) by the end of 1993.
At the end of the process, only an estimated thirty enterprises, mainly
natural monopolies, would remain in the public sector. Since this plan would
take 10-12 years to complete, the GovernAent has included a third approach in
its Privatization Program, which is being developed with IDA technical
assistance, and which seeks to accelerate the process considerably. Under this
approach, the Goverment will move its public enterprises under several
holding companies or trusts that will subsequently be privatized together with
their enterprise portfolios. This route could cut the time needed to complete
the privatization program by about half, down to five or six years.
46.      The implementation of this new strategy includes the following steps:
(i)      Small gublic enterorises with up to 30 employees will be
auct.oned off by their current supervising agencies. The
national and provincial authorities h-.ve about 160 such
small public enterprises under their supervision, accounting
for roughly 25% of their public enterprises and 8% of their



15
employees. They will dispose of them all within three
years. The districts and villages are expected to auction
off the many small firms under their supervision in a
similar process and time frame.
(i)      Larger nublic eneernrises (which in the Lao context means,
more than 30 employees) will be privatized in more
customized transactions. The methods of privatlzation are
mainly direct sale through bidding or negotiations, public-
private joint ventures, and eventually also public share
issues. Lease arranBgments, by contrast, will be phased
out. Instead of engaging in a time-consuming valuation and
categorization of all public enterprises prior to the
program, the Government will (i) pragmatically review each
six month about 30-40 public enterprises, (li) select from
them a batch of 10-20 for privatization during the following
twelve months (iii) evaluate the latter group; (iv) search
potential partners and put them on the market, using
competitive bidding to the extent possible; (v) negotiate
monitorable contracts. Provided that interested buyers can
be identified, the whole process is expected to take up to a
year for each batch. Through the rolling mechanism, though,
the Government will always handle two batches in parallel,
one in its early and another in its later phase, which
requiro different expertise. The Government thus aims at
privatizing about 25 large enterprises per year.
Mill)    To further accelerate the process, the Government will in
1992-93 transfer almost all large public enterprises on the
national and provincial levels under a small number of
competing state holdU   csuganie.  Japan-funded, IDA-
executed technical assistance will help prepare and
implement the establishment of such holding companies, in
1992. Once established, these holding companies will
continue the privatization of their firms on a customized
basis as per existing procedures. Later, however, the
holding companies themselves are to be privatized,
indirectly moving all their holdings into the private
sector. Suitable mechanisms for this "rapid privatization*
will be formulated soon taking into account the Eastern
European experience and the Lao context.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the Privatization Program wlll monitored
by IDA under the proposed operation.2 During the first year of implementation
it is expected that the Government will have offered on the market a first
batch of large and medium state enterprises, and progressed in the evaluation
and putting in vendable form of a second batch. It is also anticipated that
2 Policy actions presented in bold are conditions of tranche release.



16
about 50 smaller ones would have been auctioned off and that the design of the
rapid privatization approach would have been firmed up.
47.      This Privatization Program stands on a firmer institutional footing
than the initial efforts in this field. First, the planning and execution of
the program are assisted by a UNDP-funded and Bank executed-TA program.
Second, the authority to commit the Government will now be clearly designated.
In particular the authority to privatize all firms except small ones under
provincial supervision will be transferred to the central government. Third,
the responsibility for carrying out the Privatization Program was clearly
assigned to the Department of Public Enterprises of the ESPM, created in
September 1991, with adequate staffing. Detailed yet straightforward
procedures and guidelines concerning the various types of privatization are
being finalized. For the auctioning of small firms, for instance, the central
authorities are providing guidelines focussed on ensuring transparency and
competition among bidders. For the customized transactions, guidelines
emphasize active investor search, skilled tendering and contract
formulation/negotiation rather than overly detailed enterprise valuation; in
this, the authorities would rely primarily on the competitive nature of the
process.
48.      ZianiAl sunervisn of state enterprse.  For a number of years,
there will remain state enterprises. While the managers of these enterprises
need a large degree of operational autonomy, they will not strive for
efficiency unless the State, in its role as owner, exercises its property
rights adequately and ensures a proper dividend on its capital. The
Government is aware of the urgent need to restore its ownership function.
This will be facilitated by the Enterprise Law which is currently under
preparation for adoption by the end of 1991. In view of the urgency of some
critical problems, and of the time needed until effectiveness of this Law and
the corporatization of state enterprises under the Law, the Government wants
to adopt during the third quarter of 1991 an interim Public Enterprise Decree
abolishing the self-management system and establishing Board of Directors and
dividends. Both the Law and the Decree have been drafted and will be
implemented with IDA-executed technical assistance. Pending more
sophisticated instruments for controlling state enterprise performance, the
Government is also preparing temporary wage gvidelines for public enterprises,
in order to prevent wage escalation.
49.      The new legislation and organizational changes will bring about major
improvements in the institutional arrangements and techniques for state
enterprise supervision. The Government has set up In September 1991 a
Department for Public Enterprises at the XEPY to assign their financial
supervision to the authority that ultimately bears the financial
responsibLlity for public finaences. The Government plans to establish the
principle that all public enterprises, including those currently under local
supervision, are owned by the entire state whose financial interests are
represented by the MEPF. Boards of Directors are introduced to represent at
the enterprise level these owner intereste in a professional and efficient
manner. The future establishment of several holding companies or similar



17
units, while accelerating privatization (see above), will further increase the
independence of financial supervision from the sectoral ministries. It will
also allow offering sufficient remunoration to attract qualified management
expertise. A consultant team will assist the design and establishment of
these institutions. It will also help develop and introduce adequate
instruments for strategy formulation, performance targeting, and monitoring,
and audit. For instance, the new accounting system now allows to replace the
system of asset depreciation payments to the budget, which jeopardized
enterprise capitalization, with dividend payments.
50.       ui       E WAmeSwCL The key to the development of an efficient
enterprise sector is the existence of a legal and regulatory framework which
guarantees the security of business operations, ensures fair competition
between private and public firms and provides for enforceable and efficient
commercial transactions. The Government has under preparation a wide range of
business laws for immediate implementation. On the agenda of the Supreme
Popular Assembly for this year is the adoption of laws on companies,
bankruptcy, arbitration, negotiable instruments, and secured transactions.
Also on the Assembly's agenda, but maybe not for this year due to the
complexity of the matter, is the adoption of a Land Law providing for secure
private tenure and the emergence of a land market.
51.      The Government also seeks to enhance business practices through the
introduction of a now accounting system, and of a framework for external
auditing to develop on a private basis. It will introduce implementation
guidelines for the Business Accounting Law adopted in November 1990, and
formulate a Decree on the Organization of the Accounting and Auditing
Profession.
52.      The banking system is being reformed so as to become a supportive
instrument of private sector development. The policy of granting autonomy to
former provincial branches of the central bank is reaching completion and a
first foreign bank established an office in the capital in 1990. A commercial
banking decree which will set the prudential and regulatory framework for
banking activities is expected to be adopted in 1991. The restructuring of
the financial sector is being undertaken with Asian Development Bank
assistance. One of the major tasks is to identify the full extent of the
legacy of bad and doubtful debts within the banking system.   It is planned
that ADB's financial assistance will permit the Government to deal with this
problem, primarily by recapitalizing the commercial banks. Early evidence
indicates that the reformed commercial banks have been responsive to the
financing needs of the private sector.   Credit to the private sector grew at
a rate of 40 percent and is targeted to expand by 48 percent in 1991. As a
result from this positive response, the share of the private sector in credit
outstanding to the economy has grown from 4 percent at the end of 1988 to 14
percent at the end of 1990.



18
53.      Finally, the development of a competitive private sector depends
strongly on appropriate regulation and promotion of International trade. With
Japan-funded technical assistance from IDA, the Government will undertake a
review of the licensing system for imports and exports and of policies for
export promotion.
54.      ForEign Investment.  The country adopted in 1988 a liberal Foreign
Investment Law. While this has sparked considerable interest among medium-
size investors of the region, larger international investors representing
"best practices" have yet to undertake substantial investments. As part of an
IDA-executed technical assistance program, consultants have now reviewed
various barriers to foreign inmestments, and will help organize an inter-
agency mechanism to alleviate them. They will also assist the Government to
amend Its Foreign Investment Legislation so as to streamline procedures, limit
discretion in incentives, and ensure coherence with other new laws. Moreover,
the consultants are providing training, largely on the job, in foreign
imnestment supervision and promotion.
Reoreo
55.      With the adoption of the March 1991 tax refenm, the country has
completed the establishment of an appropriate system of general taxes. Among
other desirable features, this package brought about some major
simplifications to the previous system. It Included: (i) the introduction of
excise taxes on selected products such as petroleum and luxury goods; (ii) the
streamlining of turnover and import duty rates; (iii) the imposition of a
minimum corporate tax (to be used as credit towards profit tax payments); (iv)
a simlified tax on small businesses; and (v) a further extension of the tax
withholding system. However, major improvements can still be expected from
the creation of national tax and customs administrations, in lieu of the
current scattering of responsibilities -in this field between various levels of
government with Variable degrees of commitment to or capacity for revenue
collection. Creation of these administrative services is also a prerequisite
for the implementation of the other public finance reforms, discussed in
paras. 42-44. A decree of August 1990 sets the principle of unifying the
administration of revenue collection nationwide; the Government is aiming at
completing its Implementation before the end of 1991.
56.      Sources other than general taxes can also contribute strongly to
budgetary revenues. The Government is reviewing the system of wood royalties
with IDA in the context of the preparation of our upcoming Forestry Project
with a view of capturing the full economic rent involved in domestic as well
as foreign sales. Also, it is reviewing road user fees and has agreed, in the
context of our recently approved Highway Project, to adjust them upwards, as
appropriate, by end of 1991. Telecommunication tariffs should be maintained
at levels consistent with adequate self-financing of the Post and
Telecomaunication Company, as agreed with IDA.



19
57.      The Government has adjusted the pric, of electricity for domestic
sales by 43 percent (In dollar terms) In June 1991. Finally, the Government
is placing new emphasis on raising appropriate revenues on its financial
assets through (1) the introductior of a profit-related dividend on Its equity
holdings (see para. 32); (ii) the full collectior of interest payments on
foreign loans on-lent to other entities; and (iii) market-related remuneration
on its bank deposits.
Public Resource Manamement
58.      Under SAC2, the Goverment plans to blance the current budget in
FT1992 and to move to a current surplus thereafter. Current expenditures will
thus remain extremely constrained over the medium-term, especially in view
(i) of the current underfunding of basic public services, such as education,
health and road maintenance and (ii) of the extremely low level of public
wages. There is thus an overriding need to improve the productivity of
Government spending and to ensure a meticulous allocation of public resources.
59.      Having abandoned central planning, the country still needs to develop
modern instruments to run its administration, manage its civil service and
administer public finances. One critical area concerns the role of local
government. In an attempt to overcome the fragmentation of the economy, under
the New Economic Mechanism (NEK), the country gave unbridled administrative
and fiscal autonomy to local governments. The control that these governments
obtained on more than half the budgetary revenues was neither matched by
managerial capacities nor restrained by budget control mechanisms. In
addition, there was no functional specialization or technical communication
between these various levels. This has brought about a slack in financial
discipline, growing regional disparities but very little in the way of local
public services. A second area of concern is that, with the dismantling of
the planning apparatus, the capacity of the country for development
programming has been undercut. Also, the country still needs to develop
appropriate budgeting and budget control mechanisms and institutions.
Finally, in a financially constrained environment, there is a need to
streamline administrative structures and cut back on the civil service to
improve the effectiveness of Government.
60.      The Government is well aware of the necessity to consolidate market-
oriented reforms with government reforms. A number of actions are under
preparation, which will be supported SAC2. They affect the areas of
(i) budget management; (ii) public investment programming; (iii) civil service
and administration.
61.       Budg2ting. The Government has adopted, over the course of the
summer of 1991, a Budget legislation setting a greatly improved framework
under which, starting with the FY1992 budget, a budget encompassing all tax
and non-tax revenues, foreign assistance as well as all expenditures
nationwide will be prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance. It



20
will, inter alia, (i) lnastltute llne-item budget appropriations; (ii)
consolidate revenues into a consistent framework; and (ili) set out the
expenditures to be undertaken by provincial and district authorities. Hence,
provincial governors and district presldents would recelve a delegatlon of
authority to manage the State budget in thelr provlnce and dLstrict
respectively. Maybe even more importantly, this new framework would provLds
for the budget to b.e published, which it ls not at the moment, and hence
submLt lt to the scrutiny of the general publIlc. This framework is crucLal to
provide a global approach to budget choices, ensure transparency in resource
allocation and prevent excessive discretlon in revenue and spending decisions
by line agencies; It will permit an effective conduct of flscal policLes.
62.       Eudggt exeugtign.  The Government is keenly aware of the need to
upgrade the execution of the budget, and of the necessity to enhance budget
control and monltoring mechanlsms. Once the budget is approved, the
authorities currently lack formal systems to ensure that actual out1 ays
conform to lt (financial control); to exerclse a proper monitoring and
accounting of treasury operations (public accounting) -- a function which used
to be carried out by the previous State Bank of Lao PDR; to pursue an active
cash management (treasury); and to guarantee transparency and competitiveness
in public procurement. To overcome this, the authorities are finalizing a
legislation on Public Accounting and Procurement which will strengthen the
expenditure process and the way Government receipts and outlays are being
handled. The main features of the now system are the following:-
(a)  FLi naial control: FinancLal control by the Minlstry of Finance
over the compliance of all expenditures made by the line agencies
with established procedures and the availability of funds in the
relevant line item will be exercised at the commitment stage, and
then at the payment stage.
(b)   Public "srgyMoIUr:  A single body of Tpublic a-countants will be (i)
solely authorized to handle public funds (for instance, executing
payments if payment orders are valid) at any level of
dministration and (ii) assigned the responsibility of keeping
Government books.
(c)   JreAs=:  The  implementation of the network of public accountants
will be completed by the establisbment with the 1992 budget of a
single national Treasury, in lieu of the multLple treasuries
currently maintained at each level of Government.
(d)   Pj*gmxNUU:  The new framework of budget execution would be
completed by the adoption of guidelines defining the terms and
conditions under which public procurement is to be carrLed out.
Public InvestmnAt Progr_MXing
63.       Major steps are also being taken to restore a systematic approach
to development expenditure programming. The Government has approved during



21
the sum4r of 1991 a medium-term Public Investment Program (PIP): 1991-95, the
first one prepared outside the framework of the former planned systea. The
broad level and composition of this PIP, outlined in para. 18, is satisfactory
to WA. It is also taking advantage of this exercise to strengthen important
aspects of the PIP process. The Government intends (i) to adopt a rolling
programing approach, with the PIP being updated annually; (it) to elaborate
consistent guidelines for project evaluation across the Government; (iii) to
upgrade its PIP monitoring procedures; and (iv) to develop methodologies to
incorporate O&M requirements into the project selection process. Finally, to
ensure projects actually implemented are consistent with the PIP, it plans to
give a vetting authority to the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance over all
public investment projects, whatever the source or form of financing. In
parallel with this, the responsibility for aid coordination should be
centralized with the same ministry.
Public Ad&Mnistration and Civil Service
64.       Having already carried out a first round of civil service reduction
under which Government employment was reduced by about 19 percent, the
Government plans to renew its efforts towards a sustained improvement of the
administrative apparatus and a reduction of its cost while developing a more
attractive and competitive salary poliry. The emphasis will be on reducing
concomitantly the size of the administration and of the civil service. This
objective has received top priority at the recent Party Congress of March
1991. The Government is starting to formulate an action program aiming at a
25 percent reduction In the civil service which will be adopted before mid-
1992. The approach would be the following: firstly, to take stock of
existing structures and civil service level and composition; in parallel, to
design standardized administrative structures and formulate new statutory
rules for the civil service (wages, careers, employment conditions, etc); and
finally, to match the results of these two exercises, restructure the
administration, cut back the civil service, and apply new and more attractive
employment conditions to the remaining civil servants. Actions would concern
the following priority areas:-
(i)  Structures and staffing:  The Government would create an agency
in charge of managing administrative structures and the civil
service. Its first task would be to elaborate organization and
staffing guidelines. On this basis, it would redefine
government organization charts to be developed into proper
"establishments".
(ii) Civil service manajement: The same agency would carry out a
civil service census. The data would be used, on the one hand,
for designing a selective retrenchment program and, on the
other hand, for establishing the personnel files, which are
needed to manage the civil service. Once redundant civil
servants are identified, they would be removed from the civil
service proper and would be placed in severance programs,
ranging from voluntary departures to pure firing.



22
(11I)Staff MuleS and salrieks: On the basis of the information
collected during the census, civil servants' statutory ;Ules
would be revised with a view to reducing their coverage.
streamlining personnel structures, providing more attraf 'a
career perspectives and introducing performance evaluation.
The wage scale would be revised accordingly and medium-term
compensation policy would be formulated to gradually render
government wages attractive compared to the private sector'.
(iv) Local admn istrartfn: In the immediate future, as seen in
paras. 61-63, local administrations will operate as "integrated
field services" of the national administrations, under the
hierarchical authority of provincial governors. They will have
management autonomy in the framework of national financial and
development policies. To ensure that national priorities
receive adequate support across the nation, the Government
would establish an agency in charge of supervising local
governments. The Government sees this as a first step towards
a broader decentralization. Starting in 1992, it will initiate
the preparation of a second phase, which would judiciously
combine larger local autonomy and accountability. It intends
to define policy areas which are, primarily, of local interest
And, on this basis, redefine local government authority,
administrative structures and expenditure assignments as well
as financing mechanisms (potential for creating local taxes,
transfer systems. etc).
Benefits and Rlsks
65.       The expected benefits of the reforms are: an improved allocation of
resources and reduced macroeconomic imbalances, ;'wving the way for stable and
sustainable growth. It is worth underlining that this is a "growth-oriented"
package, since its thrust is on engineering a healthy expansion in investment.
The benefits of this specific operation would be seen in (i) a recovery in
domestic savings, through resource mobilization, tighter financial supervision
over state enterprises and the expansion of a profit-oriented private sector;
(it) a more efficient allocation of resources as a result of improved
budgetary management, a more rational allocation of scarce public resources
(in particular as concerns the investment program and the repartition of
resource between the center and the provinces), and the development of a sound
regulatory and legal framework for business activities. The program should
also contribute to building a more diversified economy, away from
concentration on a limited number of activities (rice, electricity, timber),
an economy which would therefore be more resilient to the vagaries of the
weather.
66.       In the present environment, sustaining macroeconomic balance in the
medium-term hinges upon institutional reforms, which will take time to firmly
3 A top level civil servant in the capital currently earns less than a daily
laborer in a remote province.



23
root. The reforms supported by SAC2 will require (i) creating from scratch
now adfinistrations -- national budget, public accounting and treasury
administrations as well as state enterprise and local government supervision
agencies -- (Li) challenging vested and probably well-entrenched interests,
such as the authority of sectoral administrations over state enterprises and
the fiscal a.thority of local governments.  Substantial technical assistance
accompaniest this operation to help resolve technical problems. Sore
Importantly, though, the clear reaffirmation by the recent Party Congress of
March 1991 of its political commitment to the market reforms provides
reassurance that the political will to transform the economy is still as
strong.
SocialIV
67.       The implementation of the structural adjustment program has already
begun to yield substantial benefits. As an immediate outcome of the reforms--
in particular, the elimination of forced procurement of agricultural produce
below market prices, removal of barriers to internal trade, and exchange rate
depreciation--incomes in rural areas have increased. This trend has been
reinforced by the recovery of rice production in 1989/90. Further growth in
rural incomes may be eapected as a result of wider access to imported
production and consumer goods, and the spread of better production techniques.
However, it is estimated that about half of the population is engaged in
subsistence agriculture and has so far been relatively unaffected by the
recent reforms. The key to improving incomes for these groups will be the
increased investment in communications infrastructure to facilitate their
Integration into the market economy and to improve the delivery of basic
social services. Living standards for certain groups in the urban areas have
been adversely affected by the curtailment of government employment and lay-
offs from some of the privatized state enterprises. However, this effect is
being mitigated by the provision of severance payments (one month of salary
per year of seniority) to the laid-off-civil servants and by the increased job
opportunities in the buoyant private sector, where salaries generally are more
attractive. To obtain a more detailed assessment of the social implications
of the New Economic Mechanism, the Government has initiated the preparation of
a Living Standards Measurement Survey with World Bank and Swedish assistance.
68.       There are indications that the provincial governments have been
unable to meet the need for social services adequately, although this is a
problem that predates the recent economic reforms. In the health sector, for
instance, the level of annual current expenditure per capita has fallen below
US$2, placing Lao PDR at the lower end of the range for developing countries
while its health problems remain among the most serious in the world.
Therefore, a key social objective of the Five-Year Public Investment Program
(1991-95) will be to develop the country's human capital, which is essential
to sustaining growth over the longer term.



24
III. IHE PROPOSED CREDI
Credit Obletives
69.       The proposed IDA Credit would support the consolidation of the
comprehensive reforms undertaken by the Government under the New Economic
Mechanism in the critical areas of (i) enterprise reform, focussing on
privatization and private sector development; (ii) resource mobilization,
through revenue enhancing policy measures and administrative capacity
building; and (iii) public resource management upgrading, by developing a
healthy public investment program, a budget management administration better
capable of enforcing budget discipline and conducting short-term fiscal
policy, a more compact and cost-effective administration, and a reduced but
more motivated civil service. The credit of SDR 30.0 million (US$40 million
equivalent) would finance general imports of goods to meet part of Lao PDR's
short-term external financing requirement, at a time when Soviet aid is
pulling out. Counterpart funds would be available to the budget to help fund
operation and maintenance and support an expanding investment program.
Monitoring and Tranche Release
70.       The policies supported by the proposed SAC2 are already well in
train and government commitment to them is clear. Additional measures noted
below have preceded Board presentation. The macroeconomic framework is also
in place and the IMF is monitoring financial developments. Tranche release
will be contingent upon the maintenance of such sound macroeconomic framework,
the satisfactory implementation of the overall program and the compliance with
a set of key specific policy conditions; this will be monitored by IDA in the
course of the supervision of credit.
&acroeconomic Conditionality
71.       The Government will continue to adhere to a sound macroeconomic
program, as referxed to in the Letter of Development Policy. To help IDA
monitir macroeconomic developments, strict monitoring arrangements will be
observed, as defined in the Letter of Development Policy.
SneeilfeConditions
Before Board resegntatio'
(i) Adoption of a Medium-Term Investment Program, satisfactory to
IDA.
(ii) Creation of a Department, with adequate staffing, in charge of
supervising public enterprises and implementing privatization.
(iii)Increase on the domestic tariff of low-voltage electricity
by 40 percent (in dollar terms).



25
Agfore effectiveness
(i) Adoption of a Decree abolishing state enterprise self-
management and instituting Boards of Directors.
BefoXe second tranche release
(i) Preparation, publication and implementation of the FY1993
budget following provisions of new budget legislation and
generating a balanced' current account.
(ii) Promulgation of an Enterprise Law, creating joint stock
companies and implementation decrees.
(iii)Centralization of all treasury operations with the national
Treasury.
(iv) Satisfactory implementation of the Privatization Program.
(v) Adoption of a comprehensive program, satisfactory to IDA, to
reduce the civil service by at least 25 percent.
Credit Administration
72.       Disb5uruemnt. The proposed credit would amount to about SDR 30
million (US$40 million equivalent). The credit would be disbursed in two
equal tranches of about SDR 20 million each. The first would be available
upon credit effectiveness. The second tranche would be available for
disbursement following a review of performance in July 1992, and subject to
the conditions outlined in the paragraph above.
73.       The Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance (MEPF) will have primary
responsibility for the administration of the proposed credit. The Bank of the
Lao PDR will be responsible for the preparation and submission of withdrawal
requests. Disbursement for contracts of US$ 500,000 and above would be fully
documented following standard procedures used in adjustment lending.
Disbursement egainst contracts less than US$500,000 but more than US$10,000
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures from the Bank of the
Lao PDR detailing individual transactions in a given period of time together
with payment of the amounts involved and relevant information concerning their
eligibility under the credit. Supporting documentation for Statements of
Expenditures would be retained by the Bank of the Lao PDR for periodic review
by IDA supervision missions. To facilitate disbursement from the credit, a
Special Account, with an authorized allocation of US$8 million rep: -Isenting
about 20 percent of the credit amount would be established in US$ at the
Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao (BCEL). Replenishment from the second
tranche amount would be made following satisfactory performance on the
conditions specified for the second tranche release. All of the proceeds of
4 Except for severance payments which are by nature one-shot expenses.



26
the proposed credit are expected to be disbursed in 22 months from the date of
credit effectiveness.
74.        rgeuroment. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be used for
eligible imports, subject to a negative list. The list of ineligible imports
for the purpose of this credit would be standard, i.e., goods intended for
military or para-military purposes or for luxury consumption, goods financed
from other official bilateral or multilateral sources, and uranium.
Procurement on commodity markets is allowed. IDA financing will be limited to
imports procured from Bank member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan, China.
The credit would be used to reimburse 100% of the foreign cost of imports. In
light of the fact that the Government bas taken prior action on many elements
of the adjustment program, it is recommended that IDA retroactively finance
eligible items procured, in accordance with Bank guidelines, after July 1,
1991 up to a maximum of US$8.0 million.
75.       Both private and public sector imports are eligible for financing.
While Government imports are not precluded, it is expected that the credit
will finance primarily imports by private and public businesses. The market-
related exchange rate and open capital account are conducive to an efficient
use of the proceeds of the credit by these commercial enterprises. Government
procurement, if any, will be subject to the procurement guidelines introduced
under this operation; they are ln conformity with Bank Guidelines.
76.       Contracts under US$5 million each would be awarded on the basis of
normal comercial practices for private sector imports. For public sector
lmports, contracts under US$5 million would be awarded after prudent shopping,
meaning solicitation and comparison of price quotations from at least three
sources. All contracts for goods and services estimated to cost US$5 million
or more each would be procured through simplified ICB procedures in accordance
with Bank/IDA Guidelines. Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of
less than US$10,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the
credit.
77.       Accountsand Audits.  The KEPF will maintain records of all
transactions under the credit and would be responsible for reconciling these
records with the records maintained at the BCEL from time to time. There are
no accredited independent auditing firms operating in the Lao PDR. The credit
account would be subject to the normal government audit carried out by the
Audit Department of the NEPF, which is satisfactory to the Association.
MEPF would submit to the Association the annual audit report on (i) the
project account and (ii) the Special Account and SoEs within nine months of
the end of each fiscal year.
Teghnical Assistance and Aid CooXdinati
78.       Much of the success of the Government's structural adjustment
program hinges on institutional reforms. The lank is therefore providing
substantial technical assistance to design and help implement the reforms, as
well as train the local staff. They benefit from the financial support of
UNDP, Sweden and Japan. Such Bank programs cover the following areas:



27
privatization, legal development, business regulations, state enterprise
corporatization and supervision, foreign investment promotion, budget
management, and investment programming. The IMF is providing assistance in ax
and customs administration and central banking. And the Government has
requested UNDP support to help it carry out its administrative and civil
service reforms. More generally, to address the crippling problem of lack of
qualified staff, the Bank is undertaking, upon Government request and with
UNDP financing, a Manpower Development Study.
79.       The proposed credit is part of a coherent effort by the
multilateral institutions to support the reforms undertaken by the Lao
Government. Coordination is particularly close with the IMF, thanks to the
PFPs that we have been preparing together. Apart from its traditional role of
monitoring financial and macroeconomic development, the IMW has focussed its
attention on central banking and revenue administration. IMF support
translated, in April 1991, into a second-year SAF arrangement. ADB, on its
part, has taken the initiative in the field of banking and agricultural policy
reforms. The ADB Board approved a US$25 million Financial Sector Loan to Lao
PDR in December 1990 and is currently preparing a second Agriculture Program
Loan.
IV.   B__l
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 1991



28
Annex I
Page r of 5
I(Y IICATORS. 1988-1994
166       15  19      0 t0     1001       100        1068      1064
me.. co                                       8.2      10.7        5.8       5.0        5.0        5.1        5.2
seel sP er ccip0.? 0.70                                            2.7       2.4        2.4                   2.6
flol Pubili inwestimet                      -14.7      12.6        4.7      10.0       15.2        5.6       15.7
Reel priv*ot .uweaditur.                     T7.?      18.6        4.9       8.9        5.7        2.9        2.2
COP deoftoer                                 27.1      $9.9       25.2      18.7        7.8        5.6        5.4
Coowwwr Priae  (ead of period)               11.9      08.1       22.0      14.0        6.5        6.0        5.0
Dsbo amrvice
0.bb service (U$ oil)                        12.4      18.5       12.1       18.2      15.8       17.3       19.0
Of which:
Interet (SS 11all)                        8.4       8.9        5.0       6.3        o.o        9.0       10.2
Dabb er"ice / XKS                            18.0      17.5       18.0      14.1       12.6       18.1       12.2
ludget Raties to COP
(In crre t pOrioe)
verwet lweetwet.                             18.7      12.6       18.5      14.1       15.4       15.2       10.8
G.v.reet .vwiao                               0.7      -1.6       -1.9      -0.8        0.1        0.6        1.2
Go _-Saws trosUs                             18.6       9.5       12.7      18.0       13.4       14.5       18.1
Gowarmet .     ;_peeditre                    25.0      28.5       25.1      26.4       26.6       29.1       80.2
Of wbish:
Cirrai eaSeditvre                        18.0      11.1       14.6       14.8      18.4       18.0       18.0
Oeall dlefiit (-) or                        -13.0     -15.8 6    -10.       -15.5     -N6.2      -15.4      -1.9
surplus (+)          _
om_etic fialdlt7 Ogrow"                      86.6      69.8       14.0       7.1       17.0        6.8       10.5
meetic crdit grwV                            47.5      -0.7       16.6      82.5       16.8       14.9        7.7
Public a      iterprie credit growh          49.1      60.8        8.1       15.6        7.0       7.0        4.5
EFport roetb (wow.)                           0.7      17.6       16.7       1.1       10.5        7.4        6.6
Easets / COP                                 12.5      12.2       12.9      12.2       14.4       14.6       15.1
luset growth (Volume)                         8.2      18.2        6.8       8.7       14.7        2.1        8.4
Imp' t- / MP                                 2.7       25.6       to.?      80.1        8.0       31.9       81.0
Curreat seceot (9US6 Si1)                   -97.6    -122.1    -125.1    -106.6    -156.5    -198.9    -102.6
Crrt account / Gop                          -16.4     -19.4      -10.0     -21.       -21.9      -20.4     -16.6
°rew. rewar  (M  all)                        16t.      46.   656.0          60.0       66.0       64.0       06.0
In w_ he of total iionrt                    0.1      15.1       15.4      14.1       18.8       11.        11.4
la weeha of coevertiblo
are Wports                                9.A      19.2       17.5      14.7       18.6       12.8       11.6



29
L
AnueS
Page 2 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. 1988-1994
(in m±ll±ons o: US dollars)
1s33      1939      1990       19$1       m92 198             134
Trea  bal.se                               -98.      -lL 2    -188.1    -U3t.3    -132.2       N1 .6    -t17.0
Cefwortibl or                              t2       -64.84    -114.4        -1.   -10.0    -164.8   -497.
monceonvoribi* ore                        -23.9     -23.9      -10.7      -0.1        0.3       0.9       0.6
Exuerts                                      49.2      64.3      @2.7       67.8 .3.0            9.       112.1
Ce.onrtibB. oer"                           41.3      47.2       64.3      69.1       78.5      33.2     102.8
Woee wvrtibl oee"                           7.4       7.8        t.9       3.2        9.5       9.9      10.3
Impoer                                     -142.3    -167.7    -198.9    -220.3    -235.2    -273.6    -299.9
Co.ewrtiblo *ru                          -103.0    -181.6    -109.2    -212.3    -233.5    -20.5   -40.1
N; -sa.ertibi. *me                        -84.8     -#6.2      -23.0      -8         -.78.     -9 t0.9
swyie. ean traw4f.e (sot)                    -4.7      -0.9       -5.6      -3.0       8.5       -0.8      -2.a
Servie                                    -11.4     -17.2      -14.6     -16.4      -10.3     -15.5     -19.6
Ceer rtibl- *er                          -9.9     -14.3      -14.1     -14.9      -10.0     -13.0      -19.8
N.._,,.r,,blo see                        -1.6      -2.4       -0.5      -0.5       30     .5  .0 °0.5
Peiwot o .fwe                               0.7       3.8        9.0      10.4       14.0      15.2       17.3
Cumme rteeuut bal                           -37.6    -122.1    -183.7    -153.6    -173.7    -138.6    -10.$
Ceo*.tibI, am*                            49.8      -90.6    -119.5    .137.9    -179.0    -194.1   -409.0
Ne..w.rtibl. are.                         -23.3     -81.8      -19.2      -0.6        0.8       0.a       0.8
C*@it.I tcovo                               105.6     1.1        160.1     147.6      177.9     179.7     191.8
Offilc.I t,rs-f*eg                           68.9      61.3       57.2      57.3       32.1      67.0      72.8
Ce.wrtibl a's                              52.8      59.6       56.7      57.0       01.6      60.3      71.3
94e.nv.'* Ible *ee                          1.6       2.8        0.S       0.5        0.5       0.5       0.3
Cuita1 inflow  (t")                          51.7    1O.8        92.9      90.1      116.6     11i.?     11.0
C.nvert4b1. *ves                           24.7      71.4       74.1      10.2      110.0     113.5      119.9
Lowe-tern too"I                          13.5       39.6      60.6       74.7      68.8      66s.6      331
Iraieg                                 28.7       0.4       OC.9       30.6      99.0       91.2     106.6
Aaertitltion                           -0.2       -3.3      .4.8       -5.9      -3.7       -6.6      -6.9
copr                                      9.2       11.6      11.5       15.6      81.8     2V.9        20.1
tl_on"rtibl. *r,                           27.0      26.9       13.3      -0.1       -0.8      -0.6      -0.6
LO".-trm #                               .15.0     11.5       0.0       -0.1      -0.6       '0.9      0..
Orwiug                                 15.6       12.8       1.4        0.7       0.0        0.0       0.0
Ae.rtint.bon                           -0.6       -0.3      -0.        * -0.6    -0.3      -0.        -0.8
#I I*tt*i r ere_"'                       12.0       17.4      13.2        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Error* and getusions                        -12.3     -15.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
O0wi i bele.                                 -4.6      24.4       11.4     -10.9       -0. 6     -4.1        2.0
Cheap.. in        o                           4.5     -24.4      -11.4      10.9        0.8       4.1       -2.0



30
Annex I
Page 3 of 5
EXTNAL  FIANCING REQUIRENTS, 1990-1993
(in millions of us collars)
12990     1991       19S2       1998
Conwrtibl- currency are
Current sccount de leit , excluding
official transfer.                                  119.6      157.9      179.0      184.1
Amortisation                                            6.8        5.9        6.7       7.1
Chan   In grw.  reorve                                 11.4        2.0       8.0       -4.0
IMF reprorhaec                                           -                    -
Totl financing rquiremmnt                         18t.2      15.8       192.7      107.2
0l.bur.esta
Exitting commitment.                                  137.0      114.0      77.0       20.7
offitcial    nefor. and leon                        128.6      114.0       77.0      20.7
Loons                                             66.9        68.6      46.2        20.7
Of which:  M                                   (41.6)     (20.1)     (88.0)     (14.7)
IDA                                 (24.4)      (86.0)     (13.2)     (6.0)
OffiCl.i trV"an e.                                 56.7       51.0      30.8         --
Prirate credits and traft-er,
Including *rrers and omission                   18.5         --         --         --
IMF (SAf)                                             -          -          --
Expoetd  now coiitnta                                    -        89.1      106.9      166.6
Offiell trafer  and loa                               --       28.0       78.8      147.0
Lo                                                   -        17.0      42.0       00.5
Of whihet As                                      -          -         14.7      85.8
Projec                               ()         l-)      (40.8)     (15.8)
Prog                                 ()         (-)      (18.0)     (20.0)
IDA                                      -         -        27.1       89.4
Project                              (-)        (-)       (7.1)     (19.4)
SAC                                  ()       (16.0)     (20.0)     (10.0)
Officil transfers                                    -        0.0       80.8       66.5
Private credits aW transfe. 1/                         -        10.1       17.8      19.5
Ottwr 2/                                              .--         -        1.3        10.0
Tetal identified finacing                               187.0      18.?       168.9     107.2
Financing gap                                              -        12.2        8.7        --
SAF                                                        -        12.2        0.7        --
Residual fi nacing gap 
eaooonvrtlbl  curreny ore
Curret account deficit , excluding
offictil tranafers                                   19.2        0.6      -o.8       -0.8
Amotl iation                                           0.0         0.8       0.8         0.9
Total financing requirmant                         20.0        1.4        0.5        0.5
Existing c,ui_tmmnt,                                   20.0         --         --         --
Official trnferx                                     0.5          --         --         --
Le"n  _8/                                            19.5         --        --         --
Expected n  cometenta                                   --         1.2       0.5       0.
Official tranfers                                      --       0.5         0.5      0.
Loans ,8/                                              -         0.7       0.0        0.0
Total identified financing                              20.0         1.2       0.5        0.5
Financing ga p
1I Include direct inveatmant
2/ Nonconceaionrl public entrprise lean
_8/ Including c_madity credit



31
ems% I
PAge ' of 5
SOURCES AND USES OF GOVRNNENT PMNS1"
(%of current GDP)
989    190    1991    im         19       194
I. U1.                                25.9    28.1    28.4    29.8    29.1    80.2
___                           _      ____ -  -   -     -        _       _
1. Capital expenditure              12.3    18.6    14.1    15.4    18.2    10.3
2. Currnt ezxpedlt.r                11.1    14.0    14.8    18.4    1S.9    18.9
2.1. WIt_ and salaries           6.4     7.5      0.0     6.4      0.7     O.f
2.2. Materials god *vpaplee      4.1     6.6      6.8     5.0      6.0     0.0
2.3. PensIo                      0.7      1.0     1.2     0.4      0.4     0.1
2.4. ODet **rvice                0.7     0.7      1.0      1.0     1.1     1.1
II. esource                           23.0    20.1    28.4    20.6    29.1    80.2
1. Fiscal rovesus                    9.6    12.7    18.9    18.4    14.6    16.1
2. Ores. borrowing and grants       14.4    15.4    14.5    16.8    14.0    15.1
2.1. Foreign                    16.7    17.5    16.1    17.6    15.0    15.5
a. Project old              10.0    10.1    11.0    11.4    11.4    12.2
b. Proram aid                3.1      7.4     4.2     0.1      3.7     3.3
- IBA                2.9      1.2     3.7      2.4     1.1      1.0
3 eenitted        2.9     1.2      2.1     0.0     0.0      0.0
* expected       0.0      0.0      1.0     2.4      1.1     1.0
- ADO                1.7      J.0     0.0      8.2     2.2      1.9
* cemitted        1.7     3.0      0.0     1.5      0.0     0.0
* expected 400            0.0      0.0     1.3      2.2     1.9
- SoViet             2.2      1.6     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
- other              1.3      1.1     0.6      0.4     0.6      0.4
2.2. O..,.tl.                   -2.9    -0.7      0.4    -1.3      0.9     0.4
a. Bank                     -4.6      0.0     0.0    -1.5      0.0      0.0
b. Nebon k _2/               1.6    -0.8      0.4      0.2     0.8      0.4
2.8. Amorttsatlon               -1.4    -1.4    -0.9    -0.9    -0.0    -0.7
1 Revi V   of fee Pf.
2J Inclul e. goveraent securities, arrears, and saes of ueasts.



32
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
LAO PDR: Annual Inflation Rate
(lM of peuiod)
80                                                       -
70 
60
30 
00
Ja 1988             Jan 19118                 9               Jan 1991



33
Annex II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PMR
A. $IATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT CEDITSE /&
(As of June 30, 1991)
Amounts (USS million)Lk
Credit   Fiscal                                           A1es2  cancellationeL
Number    Year        Borrower       Purpose              IDA          Undisbursed
Five IDA Credits fully disbursed                           53.05
1684      1986        Lao PDR      Telecom Rehab.          3.90           0.93
1826      1987        Lao PDR      Power                  25.80           7.34
1846      1988        Lao PDR      Southern Transp.       14.10           4.53
1947      1989        Lao PDR       Indl credit           10.00           6.95
2001      1989        Lao PDR      Polytechnic             3.50           3.17
*2037      1989        Lao PDR       Struc. Adj. Cr.       40.00           4.63
2079      1990        Lao PDR      Upland Ag. Dev.        20.20          19.57
2101    ' 1990        Lao PDR      Telecom II             24.50          24.54
2218      1991        Lao PDR      H'way Improvement    4S.0            iL22I
Total                                               240.05         113.95
of which has been repaid                         ..63
Total now held by IDA                               239.42
Amount sold                    0.00
Total undisbursed                                   113.95         113.95
/I The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all BanklSDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circt4ated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
.1k Principal amounts in USS equivalent at date of negotiations, and
undisbursed amounts in VS$ equivalent are valued at exchange rate
applicable on the date of this statement.
* SAL. SECAL or Program Loan
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INvESMENTS
None



34
Annex IIL
Page 1 of 2
laP
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CEDIT
UPPLEMEARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Time Table of Key Events
(a)       Time taken to prepare the program                      About 12 haonths
(b)       Responsibility for program preparation       Ministry of Economy, Plan
and Finance
(c)       Appraisal Mission                                            June 1991
(d)       Negotiaticns                                               August 1991
(e)       Planned date of effectiveness                             October 1991
(f)       Target date for tranche release                         September 1992
Section II: Sgecial Bank IMplementation Agtion
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Tranche release will be contingent upon the maintenance of such
sound macroeconomic framework, the satisfactory implementation of the overall
program and the compliance with a set of key specific policy conditions; this
will be monitored by IDA in the course of the supervision of credit.
MacroeconoMLc Conditionalit.
The Government will continue to adhere to a sound macroeconomic
program, as refe- f to in the Letter of Development Policy. To help IDA
monitor macroecouc_ ic developments, strict mo.iitoring arrangements will be
observed, as defined in the Letter of Development Policy.
Specific Conditions
Before Board presentation
(i) Adoption of a Medium-Term Investment Program, satisfactory to
IDA.



35
Aueex III
Past 2 of 2
(ii) Creation of a Department in charge of supervising public
enterprises and implementing privatization, with adequate
8taffilg.
(iii)Increase on the domestic tariff Qo low-voltage electricity
by 40 percent (in dollar terms).
Before effeetLveness
(1) Adoption of a Decre abolishing state enterprise self-
management and instituting Boards of Directors.
BefAre  ssad tanhe relee
(i) Preparation, publication and implementation of the FY1992
budget following provisions of new budgpc legislation and
generating a balanced5 current account.
(ii) Promulgation of an Enterprise Law, creating joint stock
companies and implementation decrees.
(ii)Centralizati*n of all treasury operations with the national
Treasury.
(iv) Satisfactory impleametation of the Privatization Program.
(v) Adoption of a comprehensive program, satisfactory to IDA, to
reduce the civil service by at least 25 percent.
' Ecept for severance paymonts which are by nature one-shot expenses.



36
Annex IV
Page 1 of 9
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PEACE, INDEPENDENCE, DEMOCRACY, UNITY, PROSPERITY
Ainistry of Economy,
Plan and Finance
Vientiane
Lao PDR
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
Dear Mr. President:
LETTER OF DEVELODMENT_FOLICY
1.       The Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic wishes to
request the assistance of the International Development Association (IDA) in
support.of the consolidation of its program of economic reforms. This letter
provides an overview of the recent achievemnts of the Government's reform
program, indicates the measures already taken to consolidate early results,
and outlines the direction of future policies.
2.       The restructuring of the Lao economy along market lines, initiated
under the New Economic Kechanism, is already well advanced. Its positive
results are evident in terms of growth and stabilization of the economy.
However, implementation of the reforms also brought about new challenges to
the Government. In particular, the impact of the reforms on public sector
financial performance was more severe than the Government had originally
anticipated. Restoring an adequate level of financial performance is now
viewed as crucial to the sustainability of the reforms. Confronted with this
challenge, my Government did not wait to react but revised its policy
priorities. This is true, for instance, of the reform of state enterprises,
which evolved from providing the enterprises with autonomy to privatizing
them. As will be underlined below, early actions have also been taken to
strengthen the fiscal situation. The agenda for the medium term therefore
emphasizes developing both the institutions needed to carry out adjustment
policies and enabling environment required for a market economy to flourish.
This agenda as well as the macroeconomic policies which will underpin its
implementation is presented in the Government's second-year Policy Framework
Paper (PFP), adopted in early 1991.
3.       The Government recognizes that sustaining current reform efforts
will, above all, necessitate the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic
framework. However, implementation of the reforms is expected to continue to
generate an import demand in excess of the country's anticipated foreign
exchange resources. Furthermore, the withdrawal of the Soviet Union as the
major provider of balance-of-payments support will continue to aggravate the



37
Annex IV
Page 2 of 9
prew_t%ng imbalance.  Such a situation calls for the mobilization of quick-
dist- ing, general purpose funds, which are being requested from IDA and
other ources. Early this year, the Government also entered into a second-
year ' muctural Adjustment Facility arrangement with the International
Monetary Fund. It is also preparing a Second Agricultural Program Loan with
the Asian Development Bank.
Pgagre,s toXwrds Structural Adjustment
4.       The Lao People's Democratic Republic has already gone a long way in
its transition from central planning to a market economy. This reflects the
determination with which the reform policies, adopted at the Party Congress of
1986, have been carried through. This comprehensive economic strategy of
moving swiftly to a market system, known as the New Economic Mechanism, was
aimel at exposing the economy to market forces, opening up trade and foreign
investment opportunities, strengthening the role of the private sector and
improving macroeconomic management. Initial reforms included the freeing of
virtually all prices, the elimination of consumer and other subsidies, the
unification of official excharve rates and the market determination of the
exchange rate, the self-management of state enterprises and the authorization
of private activities. This was accompanied by a massive devolution of
administrative and fiscal authority to local governments. Despite some
initial setbacks, the Government has persevered with its reform program and
the recent Party Congress strongly reaffirmed the commitment of the country to
a market economy.
5.       Among the initial reforms implemented under the New Economic
Mechanism, those in the following fialds are of particular significance for
the development of our country: (a) exghan=e rMte and price refoMR: all
prices (except those for public utilities but including those for the previous
"strategic goods") have been liberalized, and the official exchange rate was
brought to the level of the parallel market and maintained at that level;
(b) enterDrise reform: autonomy has been extended to almost all state
enterprises and restrictions on the operation of private firms (access to
inputs and credit, licensing requirements, etc.) were lifted; the abolition of
all subsidies to state enterprises is also furthering fair competition between
private and public firms. More recently, the Government has embarked upon a
strategy of privatizing state enterprises; (c) financial sector develoDment:
the single multi-purpose State Bank of Laos has been transformed into a
central bank (the Bank of the Lao PDR) and its former branches have been
restructured into six autonomous commercial banks; interest rates were
increased to levels which are positive in real terms and their structure was
rationalized, so as to eliminate interest rate subsidies; (d) fiscal reforms:
on the revenue side, the Government adopted at the outset of the program a
major tax reform, introducing a uniform profit tax, a wage income tax and a
value-added tax. Among other public tariff adjustments, it raised the
domestic price of electricity by more than 70 percent. On the expenditure
side, the payment of wages in kind was abolished, the civil service was
reduced by 19 percent between 1988 and end-1990, and the appropriation for
operation and maintenance (0 & M) was increased in the 1990 budget; and
(e) external debt management: the debt reporting system was centralized in the
central bank.



38
Annex IV
Page 3 of 9
6.       The Government is satisfied that these policies have been successful
in reviving growth. Despite a protracted drought, growth resumed in 1988; it
accelerated to a growth rate of about 10 percent in 1989 and continued at a
sustained pace of about 5 percent in 1990. Despite the Government's initial
worries, this recovery was not accompanied by a deterioration of the trade
deficit in relations to GDP. This, combined with a generous aid inflow from
the convertible zone, helped maintain a strong reserve position. Also, after
a temporary loss of macroeconomic control in early 1989, the Government
succeeded in stabilizing the economy. The brief problem in 1989 revealed one
major weakness of the reforms undertaken until then, a weakness that we have
since striven to redress. It had been realized that price and trade
liberalization would reduce state ent3rprise surpluses and hence fiscal
revenues. New taxes had thus been introduced at the same time to offset this
negative impact on the fiscal situation. However, practical difficulties in
enforcing discipline on state enterprises and in establishing a tax system, in
lieu of the previous pooling of enterprise surpluses with the budget, led
until mid-1989 to wage escalation in state enterprises and poor tax
collection. Since initial government efforts to cut expenditures were
insufficient to restore macroeconomic balances, fresh reform initiatives were
expeditiously undertaken: the Government, among other things, reformed the tax
system in June 1989, the interest rate policy in August 1989, started
privatizing state enterprises during the same summer and dramatically
increased water, electricity and telecommunication tariffs thereafter.
7.       I am ple*"ied to inform you of the success of these endeavors.
Inflation, which had reached 68 percent in 1989, was down to 22 percent in
1990. The results achieved over the most recent period indicate that the
objective of bringing inflation down to the level of our trading partners is
within reach. A drastic curtailment in credit to state enterprises enforced
by the monetary authorities has permitted a rapid deceleration in the
expansion of liquidity: the growth rate of broad money declined from
90 percent in 1989 to only 14 percent in 1990. Under this constrained credit
policy, credit to the private sector has nonetheless been allowed to expand
considerably, in accord with the official policy of promoting private sector
participation. Fiscal policy also contributed substantially to the
stabilization: tax collection, which had declined to 9.5 percent of GDP in
1989, regained 2 percentage points of GDP in 1990.
The GovermentM   s Eonomic Proaxam
Overview
8.       While satisfied with these initial achievements, the Government
recognizing the need to consolidate the reforms. The restoration of public
savings is key to this consolidation. The Government has a substantial
investment program in basic infrastructure and human resources, and is
determined to generate budgetary savings to finance it. The need to modernize
the productive sector is also obvious; for this, the Government is counting on
improved state enterprise profitability and a rapid development of the private
sector. The macroeconomic program adopted by the Government is geared towards
thssa  AMobt4ectlves



39
Annex IV
Page 4 of 9
9.       The Government expects growth to average 5 percent over the 1991-93
period based on continued improvement in infrastructure. To make this
possible, the ratio of public investment to GDP is projected to expand from
12.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 15 percent in 1993, with the main priorities
being infrastructure, supported by higher user fees, and human resources
accompanied by significant administrative reforms; direct involvement in
agriculture would be scaled down and restructured. The generation of a
current fiscal surplus, primarily through resource mobilization efforts, is
the key component of the macroeconomic program. Inflation management is. a
second core feature of the program, using newly-introduced reserve
requirements and other means, including wage guidelines. External policies
revolve around a market-based exchange rate, liberalization of import
licensing requirements and a review of remaining export taxes on primary
commodities. To support the needed flow of imported capital goods, imports
are initially projected to grow faster than GDP, with the current account
deficit not falling relative to GDP before the end of the period. The
external financing requirement is expected to average US$180 million per year.
Continued balance of payments support, while resource mobilization efforts are
under way, will remain essential to the viability of the government program.
10.      To achieve its development objectives, the Government has set the
following agenda:
(a)  To restore enternrise orofitabilitv and further the develonment of a
grofit-oriented enter2rise sector. The Government strategy
emphasizes: (i) a strengthening of the Government's privatization
program; (ii) the introduction of "bottom-line" financial supervision
of enterprises while they are still state-owned; (iii) the develop-
ment of a legal and regulatory framework supportive of private sector
development; and (iv) the promotion of foreign investment.
(b) To deenen resource mobilization efforts through a range of taxes,
public tariffs and user-fee adjustments and the strengthening of tax
and customs administration. The emphasis is on those measures which
are easiest to administer or contribute to facilitating revenue
collection.
(c)  to upgrade gublic resource management to achieve a more efficient
deployment of public financial or human resources, within a
constrained fiscal envelope. The Government wants to provide the
public administrst.in with modern techniques of investment
programming, budget management, civil service management and
administrative organization.
11.      The remainder of this letter details this policy agenda which is also
outlined in a Policy Matrix attached to this letter.
EnteR1se  Refo2M
12.      PrWiza:tiZn.  Privatization is the centerpiece of our policy
towards state enterprises and we are determined to move as fast in this field
as is consistent with the public interest. Implementation of this policy is



40
Annex IV
Page 5 of 9
already well under way. An experimental phase of privatization, initiated in
1989, was followed in 1990 by a Privatization Decree (March 1990) and various
implementation regulations. More than over 50 enterprises have already been
privatized. The Government now has a Privatization Program to place the
privatization process on a firmer footing, thereby ensuring its sustainabi-
lity. First, the authority to commit the Government in these transactions
will be clearly designated. In particular, the authority to privatize all
firms except small ones under provincial supervision will be transferred to
the central government. Second, responsibility to carry out transactions will
be given to a Department of Public Enterprises to be created before end-
September 1991. Detailed procedures and guidelines concerning the various
steps of the privatization process are being prepared. As regards large and
medium enterprises, the Government is establishing and intends to maintain, on
a six-month rolling basis, an indicative list of enterprises from which it
seeks to disengage itself. On this basis, the Government plans to put on the
market for sale, joint venture or liquidation, an initial batch of about 15
large and medium enterprises and start the process of privatization for a
second one in early 1992. As regards smaller enterprises, it intends to
auction them off; the Government intends that about least 50 of them will have
been privatized through this procedure by mid-1992.
13.      Financial tutelle.  Despite its ambitious agenda, the Government
recognizes that a number of state enterprises may remain state-owned for some
years. Their supervision in the meantime has to be reformed in order to
arrest the depletion of their assets and ensure a profit orientation. Most
importantly, public enterprises will establish Boards of Directors, starting
from the fall of 1991, following the adoption of a Public Enterprise Decree;
the latter decree will also replace the current system of transfers of
depreciation allowances to the budget by proper dividends. Starting in early
1992, state enterprises will be converted into joint-stock or limited
liability companies, cooperatives or partnerships, under the provision of the
Enterprise Law currently being prepared.
14.      Moreover, their supervision will be set up in ways that facilitate
future privatization. Subject to further review of its practical feasibility,
the strategy being pursued is to establish central institutions in charge of
financial supervision of state enterprises under the form of diversified and
competing holding companies that acquire the expertise to privatize their
firms, and which could themselves be privatized through the issuAnce of equity
to the general public. The Government will design, during the fall of 1991,
financial supervision institutions as well as their instrumencs to be used by
the institutions for strategy formulation, performance targeting and
monitoring, and audit. The institutions would be in place by early 1992, and
start immediately applying the new supervision instruments to an initial set
of enterprises. Pending the firm introduction of more sophisticated
instruments for monitoring and controlling the financial performance of state
enterprises, however, the Government will establish temporary wage guidelines
for public enterprises, in order to prevent wage escalation.
15.      Business Framework.  At the same time, the Government will also
continue improving the business environment, especially for the fast emerging
private sector. The Government has under preparation a wide range of business



41
Annex IV
Page 6 of 9
laws for immediate implementation. On the agenda for this year is the
adoption of laws on companies, bankruptcy, arbitration, negotiable
instruments, and secured transactions. Also on the agenda, but now
realistically expected in 1992 due to the complexity of the matter, is the
adoption of a Land Law providing for secure private tenure and the emergence
of a land market. The Government also seeks to enhance business practices
through the introduction of a new accounting system, and of a framework for
external auditing to develop on a private basis. It will introduce
implementation guidelines for the Business Accounting Law adopted in November
1990, and formulate a Decree on the Organization of the Accounting and
Auditing Profession.
16.      Foreign Investment.  In 1988 the Government adopted a liberal Foreign
Investment Law. To enhance the country's attractiveness vis-a-vis reputable
investors, the Government intends to (a) amend its Foreign Investment
Legislation so as to streamline procedures, limit discretion in incentives,
and ensure coherence with other new laws and (b) streamline foreign investment
promotion activities.
Resource Mobilization
17.      The Government has recently completed the tax reform process with the
adoption, in March 1991, of a tax package, including: (a) the introduction of
excise taxes on selected products such as petroleum and luxury goods; (b) the
streamlining of turnover and import duty rates; (c) the imposition of a
minimm corporate tax (irrespective of profit levels); (d) a simplified tax on
small businesses; and (e) a further extension of the tax withholding system.
Moreover, it expects major improvements in collections from the creation of
national tax and customs administrations. A decree of August 1990 sets the
principle of unifying the administration of revenue collection nationwide; the
Government is aiming at completing its implementation before the end of 1991.
18.      In addition, the Government wants to develop sources other than
general taxes to contribute more substantially to budgetary revenues. The
Government is reviewing the system of wood royalties with IDA with a view to
capturing the full economic rent involved in domestic as well as foreign
sales. Also, it is reviewing road user fees with a view to adjusting them
upwards, as appropriate, by the end of 1991. Telecommunication tariffs will
be maintained at levels consistent with adequate self-financing of the
Post and Telecommunication Company. The Government has adjusted the price
of electricity for domestic sales by 30 percent (in dollar terms) in
June 1991. Finally, the Government is emphasizing raising appropriate
revenues on its financial assets through (a) the introduction of a profit-
related dividend on its equity holdings; (b) the full collection of interest
payments on foreign loans on-lent to other entities; and (c) market-related
remuneration on its bank deposits.
Public Resource Manaenment
19.        S    _o        The return to a current fiscal surplus is the primary
objective of the Government's fiscal policy. Based on the above-mentioned
resource mobilization efforts, the national budget for 1992 will show a



42
Annex IV
Page 7 of 9
balanced current account. Major reforms of the budget management systems are
being finalized to achieve a more efficient use of budget resources.
20.      Budggting.  The Government is preparing a new Budget legislation, to
be adopted in 1991, specifying the conditions under which the budget should be
prepared, approved and executed. This framework will encompass all tax and
non-tax revenues as well as all expenditures nationwide. As a result of this
new legislation, provinces and districts will cease to operate their own
independent budgets. Provincial governors and district presidents would
retain hierarchical authority over government field services, but now in the
capacity of representatives of the Government and of each of the Ministers.
They would receive from the same authorities a delegation of authority to
manage the State budget in their provinces and districts, respectively. This
new framework would also provide for the budget to be published.
21.      BuAyet Execution.  The Government is keenly aware of the need to
upgrade the execution of the budget and of the need to enhance budget control
and monitoring mechanisms. It is preparing a Public Accounting legislation
for adoption in 1991, which will establish the following mechanisms:
(a) Financial control: Financial control by the Ministry of Economy, Plan
and Finance over the compliance of expenditures made by the line
agencies with established procedures and the availability of funds in
the relevant line item will be exercised at the commitment stage, and
then at the payment stage.
(b)  Public aecountino:  A single body of public accountants will be
(i) solely authorized to handle public funds at any level of
administration and (ii) made responsible for government accounts.
(c) Treasurv: Implementation of the network of public accountants will
be complemented by the establishment, by the end of 1991, of a single
national Treasury.
The new framework for budget execution would be complemented by the adoption
of guidelines defining the terms and conditions under which public procurement
is to be carried out.
22.      Public Investment Programing.  Major steps are also being taken to
restore a systematic approach to development expenditure programming. The
Council of Ministers will approve before the end of September 1991 a medium-
term Public Investment Program, satisfactory to IDA. The Government intends
(a) to adopt a rolling programming approach, with the PIP being updated
annually; (b) to elaborate consistent guidelines for project evaluation
throughout the Government; (c) to upgrade its PIP monitoring procedures; and
(d) to develop methodologies to incorporate O&M requirements into the project
selection process. Finally, to ensure that projects to be implemented are
consistent with the PIP, it plans to give a vetting authority to the Ministry
of Economy, Plan and Finance over all public investment projects, whatever the
source or form of financing. In parallel with this, the responsibility for
aid coordination will be centralized in the same ministry.



43
Annex IV
Page 8 of 9
23.      Public AdminLstragtio  and CLivl Service.  Having already carried out
a first round of civil service reduction, the Government plans to renew its
efforts towards sustained improvement of its administrative apparatus and a
reduction of its cost while developing a more attractive and competitive
salary policy. Preparation is under way of a comprehensive action program
aiming at a reduction of at least 25 percent in the civil service. Such a
program will be adopted by early 1992. The emphasis will be on reducing
concomitantly the size of the administration and of the civil service.
Actions would concern following prior±ty areas:-
(i) Structures and stafflin: The Government intends, in 1991, to create
an agency in charge of managing administrative structures and the
civil service. Its first task would be to elaborate organization and
staffing guidelines. On this basis, it would redefine areas of
government organization to be developed into proper "establishments."
(b) Civil service maname jn: The same agency would carry out, in early
1992, a civil serv ,e census. In the latter part of the year, the
data would be useL, on the one hand, for designing a selective
retrenchment program and, on the other hand, for establishing the
personnel files needed to manage the civil service. Once redundant
civil servants are identified, they would be removed from the civil
service proper and placed in severance programs.
(c)  Staff r=uls andsalArie: In parallel, civil servants' statutory
rules would be revised, in 1992, with a view to reducing their
coverage, streamlining personnel structures, providing more
attractive career prospects and introducing performance evaluation.
The wage scale would be revised accordingly and a medium-term
compensation policy would be formulated to gradually render
government wages attractive compared to those of the private sector.
(d) Local administration: The Government also intends to establish an
agency m.n charge of supervising local governments. This agency will
review in 1992 the prospects for decentralization, particularly of
local governments' functional role, administrative structures,
authority and expenditure assignments and financing mechanisms
(potential for creating local taxes, transfer systems, etc.,). In
the meantime, local administrations would operate as "integrated
field services" of the national administrations.
Monitoring and Review
24.      Implementation of reform policies supported by IDA will be undertaken
in the context of a stable macroeconomic framework. The Government is
committed to actions which will continue to maintain a competitive exchange
rate, prudent credit expansion, a controlled fiscal situation and inflation
rate, and real positive interest rates in order to attain medium-term
development goals. In this context, it understands that adherence to a sound
program of economic management is necessary for the proceeding of the
requested Second Structural Adjustment Credit. The Government will closely



44
Annex IV
Page 9 of 9
monitor economic developments and share with IDA the necessary economic
information on a regular basis, as defined in Annex 2. The Government stands
ready to review with IDA, at the request of either party, the satisfactory
progress in implementing macroeconomic policies outlined in this letter.
Conclusions
25.      The Government has already taken a number of policy initiatives to
consolidate the New Economic Mechanism. It considers that the action program
outlined in this letter will greatly further the economic and social
objectives of the Lao People's Democratic Republic. To facilitate the smooth
implementation of this program, the Government hereby renews its request for a
Second Structural Adjustment Program.
Respectfully yours,
for the Minister of Economy, Plan and Finance
Khamsay Souphanouvong
First Vice Minister
Enclosures:



45
Annex V
Page i of 6
VML3 am
SEON STMA #SUTDN PME
PULICY NAuMIX
obJetives         Fiolds of Action  | Prior ctions                                               foe
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~FrtTwc                                   Seconid Trt -Che
A.  -SLANCtN
EWtgRPR-ISE1
PROFITABILITY
1. PRIVATIZE SO£S    PRIVATIZATION
AS FAST AS
CONSISTENT W1TH
PUBLIC INTEREST
1.1 Establishing an  Institutions           Adoption of
institution able to                         Privatization         Danartent for SCEs
handle large                                Decree (March 1990)
privatization
program
Assigning
responsibility for
privatizing firm
wl over 30
enployees (w/
collaboration of
peovince author-
ities) to central
authority
1.2 Ensuring          Procedures            Formulation of         Amending guidelines
transparency and                            guidelnes and          and model contrKcts
efficiency in                               model contracts        for privatization
transawtions
1.3 Using adequate   Implementation         Privatization of       Adoption of the
privatization         ProCmsS               over 50 SO£s at        Privatization
strategy and                                ministry and           Program
twthods                                     prefecture lv elPr
Adopting every six    Continued selection
months a priority     of a SOW batch for
tiat of enterprises   privatization every
for privatization     six months
_             in the next 12        Vnd
months                Offering for sale
oir JV, or
liquidating the
first batch of
larg and medium
Adopting guidelines   Auctioning of about
for rapid sales of    SO small SOEs
SOEs u/ less than
30 employees
2. IMPROVE SOES       STATE ENTERPRISE
FINANCIAL PER-        SUPERV1SION
FORNANCE AND
PREPARE THEIR
PRItVATIZATION
2.1 Complemmnting     Institutions                                                       Establishment
operational                                                                              of holding or
autOnomy with                                                                            similar insti-
perforance                                                                               tution(s) at
accountabi lIty                                                                          central Govt. for
financial supervi-
sion of SO£s



46
Annex V
Page 2 of 6
_ _ectiv       T  Fields of Action         Prior Action          ActIwm Before         Actonm  Before
__ _________________                     ~                           First Trancho         Second Tranche
Start of impie-
mentation of
planning. per-
tormanse targeting,
and monitoring
instrumnts for
financiL
supervision of SO£s
Preparation of        A4Mion of g la         Establishment of
Decree to reform    Pf£jg                    Boards of Directors
rights wd respon-
sibilities of SOE                            Corporati:ation of
wagers and the        fotnutation of         $OEs under central
state (s8 owner)      Ocdel statutes of      fin. supervision
SEs                   according to the
Coapenies Law
(initiation)
2.2 Prevent wae                                                    Adoption of limits
escalation                                                         to resmoration of
SOE employees
S. VDEELOP ANl        WSIIESS FRAISORK
EM,ALINS EMVIROV-
MM31 FOR URXANT
OPERTION
3.1 Proide for        Contracts             Adoption of can-       Approval of Ar-
secure and en-                              tract Law              bitration Decree
forceable contracts
Adoption of Labor     Effectivenesg of
Law                   Izplementation
Decree to the Labor
Adoption of           Law
Property Law
Return of con-        Passing of Secured    Effectiveness of
fiscated properties   Transactions Law       legislation on
to previous  owners                          trarsfer and
mortaging of tand
Effectiveness of      Establishment of
_             Laws on Checks and    structures And
Bills of Exshange     capabilities for
trading of secu-
rities
3.2 Set frmework    Copanies                                                                     MM$ ioffss pt
for compeny                                                                              Enterorise  a"w end
creation and                                                                             Itmlemntation
termination                                                                              Decrees
Effectiveness of
legislation on
bankruptcy
3.3 Introduc          Accounting and        Adoption of            Effectiveness of      Effectiveness of
appropr$ate           Auditing              Accoi.ting Law        Ilplementation         Decree on the
enterprise                                                         Decree to the         Accounting and
accouting                                                          Accounting Law        Auditing Profes-
I sions



47
Annex V
Page 3 of 6
objectives         Fieldb of Action  |   Prior Actlou            Actiun Eefoe          Acticn  Bforoe
_________________         VFrst T_ude           Secn truse i
3.4 Facilitate        Trade                                                               Review of the
internationat tradce                                                                      licensing system of
imoqrts and the
export promtion  f
frasmuok
4. PRCOMTE fOREIGN   FOREIGN INVESTMENT
IHESTNENT
4.1 Set the legat    Legislation            Adoption of Foroinq  Preparstion of           Promulgation of the
framework                                    Investment Lawe       emements to F 1.    q oments
Law, for
sioplification
dereulation, and
harmonization with
other legsisation
4.2 Develop pro-      Institutions          Establishmuet of       Sev r all GeL          Create and train
motion systous                               Foreign Investment   owmership and           f.l. Promotion Unit
management            staffing links with   of kER
Conruttee             LIPCO
4.3 Remove barrier   Implementation         Over 100 FIs           Develop interageny   Remove barriers to
to foreign                                  approved               mechanism for          f.I.
linveseent                                                         removal of barriefs
to f.1.
B . Elum12
PUgIC RESOUCES
1. SIMPLER AND NMRE  GENERAL TAXES          Reduoe numer of
BUOYANT GENERAL TAX                         sales tax rates
Introdoation of
excise taxes
Introduction of
minimum corporate
tax
2. DEVELOP LOCAL      LOCAL TAXES                                                        Inftial review of
GOVERNENT IS OIN                                                                         future locAl
RESOURCES                                                                                government fi-
nancing system,
including scoe for
local taxes
3. COLLECT EcONOMIC  RDYALTIES                                     Review of wood        Establulhuent of
RENt ON NATIONAL                                                   taxes                 neutral wood taxes
RESOURCES
4. IMPROVE COST       USER FEES
RECOVERY
Electricity                                 A      ninte, of
hc  eIetrIciu    ewpot prflce parity
Telephone             Increeso of                                  Maintenance of
drnetic tariffs by                          dmstic price in
80X                                          tine with self-
financing needs.
Roads                                                              Incre  fin vehicle
_  _    _     ___      ____I_                                  I_ Lic mes



48
Annex V
Pagoe 4of 6
ObJectives         Fielde of Action  j   Prior ActitBs Actons                             ns eore
l                  ~~~~~First Trarnche   Seoon Tranche I
5. OBTAIN PROPER     FINANCIAL REVENUES
RETURN ON GOVERN-
NENT FINANCIAL
ASSETS
Loans nd deposits   aommeration of                               Collection of
Govt. FC deposits                           interest an Go.
loans
Dividends                                  Establishment of
dividend from SO£s
6. tIPSOVE REVENUE   REVENUE COLLECTlON    Decree creating       loplemmntation
COLLECTION                                 iatienal Tax Vd
Customs Adoin.
C. I"PROVlN PILIC
1. STRENGTHENING     SUDGET MANAGEMENT
BUDGET DISCIPLINE
1.1 Put all Govern-  Budgeting             Decision in prin-    Adoption of new        Po
ment revemies and                          dipI. to centralize  Widget system                       in     I
expeniture in a                            public finances                             Ludea sisgation.
single national                                                                        in curent balance
budgeting framework
Reorganization of
Centralization of    Budget Admin.
bWdet prerogatives
Adoption of public
1.2 Controt budget   Budget Execution                                                  accounting
execution and                                                                          tegislation
ensure Its           a. Financial
traeperecy           Control                                                           Establishment of
control over budget
coimiA nts
b. Public                                                        Creation of Public
Accounting ed                                                    Accoumting and
Treaury                                                          Troesury Department
Cenitrali2ation of
frlusirv onvrat'ions
Adoption of pro-
curemnt regula-
c. Procurement                                                   tions
2. RESTORE           PUBLIC INVESTMENT
A SYSTMAtC
APPROACH TO
DEELOPEN
EXPEDITURE
Programing                                 Adontion of fiv-    Armal update
Proerim satis-
faetorv to IDA
Execution             Reduction of civil    Vetting uwthority
service by 19Z       on all foreign
financed projects
to MEPF



49
Annex V
Page 5 of 5
Objectives          Fields of Action        Prior cticns           Actiom Before          Actions Before
| ____________       _I_._.___-_=_:---_:__;_,j-r   First Iranche         Sectow trenc.0
3. DEVELOP A MORE    CIVIL SERVICE AND
COST EFFECTIVE        ADNIMISTRATION
GOVERW%E%T
3.1 Reduce the        Emptoyment                                     Appointment of         C.estion of Civil
eivit service                                                        Ministry-levet         Service Department
steering comittee
for civil service      Census of the civil
and adeinistrative    service
reforms
3.2 Introduce more   Staff rules and                                                        Revise stsff rules
attracive             salries                                                               (reduced coverage,
employment                                                                                  career developnent)
conditions for
civil servants
Definition of wage
policy based on
macro indicators
and adoption of new
wage scales
3.3 Reduce the size  Administrative                                                         Adoption of
of the                Structures                                                            organization al
adeinistration                                                                              guidelines
Restructuring of
cotrol agencies
3.4 Make local        Local governments                              Restoration of a       Delegation of
govermuent                                                          single national         nanagement autonomy
accountable                                                         public finance          to local
framework              aloinistration
Initial review of
future status of
local governments
~~~~~~I-.... ._ ....., ..



50
Annex V
Page 6 of 6
The Government will provide to IDA two statistical reports on a regular
monthly and six-monthly basis respectively. They will be prepared by the
State Statistical Center.
The mon&hlX repor  will comprise the following tables:
1. The consumer Dric_ index (base: December 1987) based on price data
collected in the Prefecture of Vientianne, from the beginning of the
current year up to the month prior to the report date.
2.  The consumer orice index (base:  to be specified) based on price data
collected in the major towns of the country, from the beginning of the
current year up to no more than three month prior to the report date.
3. The current official and market exchang2 rates.
4. A monera=_&Mm=, from December 31, of the previous year up to no more
than three months prior tc the report date.
The six-monthly renort will be transmitted to IDA every June and December. It
will comprise:
1. The balance of navments. The June report will provide final data for the
first siX months of the previous year and preliminary estimates for the
previous year as a whole. The December report will include final data for
the previous year as a whole and preliminary estimates for the first six
months of the current year.
2. The bud4gt. The June report will include fiscal data (budget and actual
receipts and outlays) for the consolidated Government per broad categories
of revenues and expenditure for the previous year and for the first three
months of the current year. The December report will provide the same
data for the first nine months of the current year.
3. The value added Rer industrial orijin at constant 1988 prices, of the
previous year.
The first monthly (July 1991) and six-monthly (June 1991) reports accompany
the present lettet.



IBRO 22534R
M~~~~~~~~~~~VET NAM
LAO PEOPLE'S                      &                X~~~~~~~~~~WAN
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
CHN
OF~~~~~~~~~~~OT
-|                     /                 CAMBODIA VINTINE     aM/
AVWuST 1991



