Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15165
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2304-LA)
DECEMBER 7, 1995
Country Operations Division II
Country Department I
East Asia and the Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kip National (KN)
US$1.00 = KN720
(at appraisal, July 1991)
US$1.00 = KN717
(at final disbursement, December 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
Through 1992:January 1 - December 31
After 1992:October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS
CPC:               Committee for Planning and Cooperation
DPA:               Department of Public Administration
ESAF:              Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
IMF:               International Monetary Fund
MEPF:              Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
MoF:               Ministry of Finance
NEM:               New Economic Mechanism
OPM:               office of the Prime Minister
PFP:               Policy Framework Paper
SACII:             (Second) Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF:               Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR:               Special Drawing Right
SOE:               State Owned Enterprise
UNDP:              United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operatons Evaluation
December 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Lao People's Democratic Revublic
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2304-LA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Lao People's Democratic Republic
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) (Credit 2304-LA, approved in FY92) prepared by the East
Asia and the Pacific Regional Office. The Government has prepared Part 11 of tIe PCR, and is in
agreement with the Region's assessment of the credit.
The general objective of this and the previous structural adjustment credit was to support the
transition from a centrally planned to a market economy. by liberalizing internal and external trade and
foreign investment, strengthening the private sector, and improving macroeconomic management. The
particular objectives of this SAC were to privatize state enterprises, reform the civil service, improve
revenue collection and expenditure management through centralization of treasury operations at the
national level and publication of the budget, and create an enabling legal and institutional environment
for private sector activity.
The macroeconomic objectives were fully achieved; inflation fell from 60 percent in 1989 to 6
percent in 1993, and the overall fiscal deficit fell from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 4 percent in 1993,
while GDP grew at near 6 percent. Institutional development was furthered by the setting up of the
Department of Public Administration and a privatization unit, and the passage of a New Business Law.
However, institutional strengthening and privatization fell short of expectations; the technical, legal, and
accounting capabilities for managing auctions and holding companies were outside Laotian tradition and
experience, and privatization procedures were not transparently applied. The credit of US$40 million was
fully disbursed on time.
The outcome of the operation is rated as satisfactory, and its sustainability as likely. The
institutional development impact is rated as modest, given the administrative limitations and political
concerns impeding the progress of complex changes in public sector management, civil service reform,
and privatization.
The PCR is generally satisfactory, although institutional aspects would have benefitted from a
fuller treatment. The PCR highlights three lessons-the importance of consensus building for
government commitment and ownership, the critical role of human capacity constraints in institutional
weaknesses, and the need for parallel technical assistance.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) has already audited this operation (Report No.
14810 of June 30, 1995).
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2304-LA}
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pagze No.
Preface                  ....................................................
Evaluation Summary           ......................              ........................
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity ............................................                                   1
B.  Background ..............................................                                      1
C.  Program Objectives and Description  ..............................                            2
D.  Project Design and Implementation  ...............................                            3
E.  Project Results and Conditionality ................................                           5
F.  Bank Performance  .........................................                                   8
G.  Borrower Performance   ......................................                                 9
II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ............                                     10
m. CREDIT DATA  ..............................................                                         13
This document has a restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2304-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Program in Lao PDR for which Credit 2304-LA in the amount of US$40
million was approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank in
October of 1991.  The Credit was closed in December of 1993 as originally
envisaged.  It was fully disbursed in two tranches and the last disbursement
was in December of 1993.
The PCR was prepared by Country Department I, East Asia and the Pacific
Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) . Part II, the
Borrower's assessment, was provided by the Lao Government and has been
included as written and unedited.
Preparation of this report was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in February 1994 and is based on the President's
Report, the Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and Policy
Framework Papers that accompanied this operation.






iii
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2304-LA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
The Lao People's Democratic Republic is a socialist economy in transition.
In 1986, the Lao Government adopted a comprehensive strategy of economic
reform to move the country quickly towards a market economy. This program,
known as the New Economic Mechanism (NEM), aimed at exposing the economy to
market forces, opening up opportunities for trade and investment,
strengthening the role of the private sector, and improving macroeconomic
management.
The Second Structural Adjustment Program, supported by an IDA credit,
(SACII) was designed to consolidate the main public sector policy reforms
initiated under the NEM, which were supported by the First Structural
Adjustment Credit (SACI). The main objectives of the program were to
strengthen the country's implementation capacity and to establish the
necessary institutions to carry through these policies. The program was
intended to strengthen fiscal management, through improved revenue and
expenditure management, and enable the Government to more effectively use
public resources. The program comprised three main components: 1) enterprise
reform; 2) resource mobilization; and 3) enhancement of public resource
management and improved public administration.
Implementation Experience
The program of actions supported by SACII has been implemented. In the
area of enterprise reform, a department has been created for the supervision
and privatization of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and guidelines
establishing transparent procedures for privatization were issued, both of
which facilitated a significant transfer of the public portfolio to private
management.  In addition, an enterprise decree and corresponding implementing
regulations were adopted by the Government in 1993. Improved focus on revenue
collection and increased emphasis on raising appropriate revenues from returns
on Government financial assets have served to improve public resource
mobilization. At the same time, public resource management has been
strengthened through increased centralization at the national level of
treasury operations, although technical assistance (executed by the IMF) to
address skills shortages in this area has been delayed.  Improved transparency



iv
in fiscal policy, however, was not fully achieved as publication and wide
dissemination of the approved national budget did not occur.
Results
The overall outcome of the program was consistent with the key objectives,
although some areas fell short of the full program objective. The
macroeconomic objectives of the SACII program were fully achieved and broad
progress in the economic reform program was accomplished. Macroeconomic
policy management during the program period was consistent with program goals
and performance was outstanding. Inflation fell to 6 percent in 1993, the
overall fiscal deficit fell from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 4 percent by
1993, and the nominal exchange rate maintained its value against the US dollar
and the Thai baht. A central objective of the credit, improved public
savings, was also achieved as the Government's current balance shifted from a
deficit into a surplus. In addition, foreign investment in Lao PDR has grown
tremendously since 1991, reflecting investors' increased confidence in the Lao
economy.
On the other hand, the institutional development objectives supported by
the credit fell short of expectations in some areas.   These objectives proved
harder to realize for several reasons. Implementation of the program was
slowed by the time required to build political consensus on policy issues and
legislation. Many key institutional reforms cut across the authority of any
given ministry, and therefore required close cooperation and coordination.
Moreover, the time required to implement institutional changes was greater
than anticipated, largely due to human resource capacity constraints.
Lessons Learned
Three key lessons can be drawn from the experience with SACII. First,
efforts early in project preparation on the part of Government and the Bank to
develop an inter-ministerial working group would have helped greatly in
avoiding coordination problems during implementation. Consensus building
during project design would have developed greater government commitment and
ownership early on, thus reducing the need to do so during implementation.
Second, it is critical to take full account of human capacity constraints,
particularly in an environment with serious institutional weaknesses. More
preparation time may be required and targets may be less ambitious, but the
result is more likely to have a lasting impact. Finally, adequate and
appropriate TA should be in place before a structural adjustment program is
effective, particularly when the program is complex or innovative for the
country. There should be a firm agreement between the Government and the Bank
about the extent and type of TA that will be provided parallel with the
credit. This will also help with project supervision through providing timely
information to both the government and the Bank.



Part I: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:                         Second Structural Adjustment Program
Credit Number:                        2304-LA
RVP Unit:                             East Asia and the Pacific
Country:                              Lao People's Democratic Republic
Credit Amount:                        $40.0 million
Board Approval:                       October 1, 1991
Signing:                              October 10, 1991
Effectiveness:                        January 8, 1992
Second Tranche Release:               June, 1993
Closing:                              December 31, 1993
B.      Background
1.     The first adjustment program (SACI) was in support of the Government's
program of economic reform launched in 1986, and known as the 'New Economic
Mechanism'  (NEM). It was approved in June 1989 and closed in January, 1992.
The first adjustment program included policy actions focussing on (i) exchange
rate and price reforms, (ii) public enterprise management reform, (iii)
financial sector restructuring, and (iv) basic tax and expenditure reforms.
These steps helped lay the foundation for transition to a market based economy
and removed the state from it's key role in price and credit management.
2.       Preparation of the Second Adjustment Credit (SACII) commenced in
early 1991, timed to continue support for deepening of the institutional and
legal reforms that constitute the NEM. GoL commitment to the reform program
had remained firm throughout the post 1986 period, and the economy was
performing strongly. While real GDP growth had averaged 5% to 6% during the
SACI period since 1989, inflation was successfully reduced from over 60% in
1989 to 13% in 1991, and the nominal exchange rate had remained remarkably
stable. Confidence in the economy was building, as evidenced by the growth of
foreign investment and domestic investment activity.
3.      Parallel with stronger confidence in the economy was the recognition
that the institutions supporting transition to a market economy remained very
weak. While SACI addressed elements of the legal framework, fiscal reform,
and state enterprise privatization, several shortcomings in the institutional
framework still threatened to retard development of the economy and compromise
delivery of public services. SACII was thus aimed at strengthening fiscal
institutions to improve the effectiveness of public resource management and
reduce dependence on foreign financing.
C.      Procram Objectives and Description
4.      SACII was designed to consolidate the main public sector policy



2
reforms initiated under the NEM and supported by SACI. The government had
already liberalized all key prices, adopted a policy of state enterprise
privatization, begun a program of tax reform and fiscal centralization.
However, implementation capacity remained limited and public resource
mobilization was still weak. The principal objective of SACII was to shore up
fiscal management; improvement of both revenue and expenditure management,
concentrating structural reforms in those areas that would enable the
government to more effectively use public resources.  The key structural
reforms aimed at accelerated privatization of state enterprises and reform of
the public administration, including extensive retrenchment of redundant civil
servants. Together, these formed three main objectives; (i) enhancement of
public resource management, (ii) public enterprise reforms, and (iii) public
administration reform.'
5.     The public resource manaTement objective was designed with components
on both enhancing mobilization of public resources and on strengthening fiscal
management, through centralization of budget functions, effective annual
planning, and instituting stronger financial controls. New excise taxes,
improved cost recovery on government loans, and adoption of new road and
vehicle fees were expected. Government expenditure management was to be
enhanced through strengthening the role of the Ministry of Economy, Planning
and Finance (MEPF) in enforcing financial controls over line ministry
expenditures; a centralized national treasury system was to replace the former
decentralized system; and public procurement guidelines were to be adopted and
enforced. Finally, regularizing the preparation of a rolling Public
Investment Program (first prepared in 1991) and linking it closely to
selection and monitoring of annual investment expenditures was a further
objective of the program.
6.      Public enterprise reforms were designed to complement the measures
undertaken earlier which served to give SOEs full management autonomy while
stripping direct and indirect subsidies. Three main components were planned.
First, for SOEs considered non-strategic privatization was to be used to
remove them from public responsibility through different instruments--
auctions, organized competitive bidding, negotiations, and joint-ventures.
Lease arrangements were to be phased out. Second, financial supervision of
SOEs remaining in the Government's portfolio was to be strengthened through
the Department of State Enterprise Supervision in the MEPF.  Boards of
directors were to be installed in all SOEs, and the MEPF would be responsible
for monitoring performance and formulating strategy for strengthening SOE
management. This was intended to strengthen revenue collection from operating
SOEs and from SOEs sales, consistent with targets for public resource
strengthening. Finally, in order to underpin enterprise strengthening, a
third component was designed to address shortcomings in the legal framework.
An Enterprise Law governing both private and public enterprises was to be
adopted and implemented under SACII.
I  The components of the credit are developed in the SACII Report of the
President (Report No. P-5599-LA of September 6, 1991)



3
7.      The public administration reform component was designed to strengthen
the administrative capacity of the national civil service and to support
streamlining of the government's retrenchment program. A civil service
department was to be established, under which staff regulations, wage policy,
and organizational guidelines would be revised. The department would also
help implement restructuring of central government agencies to streamline
management and oversee implementation of a program to reduce the size of the
civil service by at least 25 percent.
D.      Project Design and Implementation
8.      The SACII project was in most respects well thought out and planned in
order to be internally consistent in its objectives and to build on reforms
that had already taken place in the economy. It provided a vision of where
the reform program was headed and what instruments and public institutions
would be needed to move the economy that direction.  It was also innovative in
several aspects, drawing on developments in other formerly centrally planned
economies to inspire program design. Project design could have been more
cautious in some aspects: greater intra-governmental coordination was assumed
than turned out to be achievable within the institutional context of the GoL;
and assumptions about the speed and depth of reform efforts were optimistic.
Project outcome was consistent with the key objectives, although some targets
were not fully achieved (as discussed in the next section).
9.      Two elements of program design helped to ensure consistency of program
targets; close coordination with the policy objectives of the IMF and
consistency with the recommendations of Bank ESW, in particular the CEM
prepared in 1990 focussing on public expenditure management. The first year
of the SACII program overlapped with the last year of the Fund's three year
Structural Adjustment Facility, and the second year of SACII coincided with
the first year of a Fund ESAF program to Lao PDR. Both preparation and
supervision of the project were enhanced by close coordination between the
institutions through the PFP process, during development of the ESAF program,
and through strong staff relations. This was especially evident from
consistent conditionality regarding civil service reform, legal reforms,
privatization targets, publication of the budget, and fiscal measures.
Coordination was further enhanced by technical assistance programs being
executed by each institution and relevant to policy reforms being supported by
the other, particularly in fiscal reform and state enterprise supervision.
10.     Some shortcomings of project design emerged in two areas: inadequate
coordination of policy planning between concerned government ministries, and
complexity relative to Lao institutional capacity. In the case of policy
planning and coordination, many key initiatives cut across the authority of
any given ministry thereby requiring consensus and cooperation to implement.
The outstanding example of this is civil service reform and streamlining.
Adopting a central policy objective of retrenchment under the project should
be in parallel with ensuring that relevant authorities understand and agree on
the modus operandi for achieving reform targets.  In the case of SACII, the
institutions were not yet fully in place to undertake the required reforms



4
(the Department of Public Administration [DPA] had not been established at the
time the credit was negotiated), and there was no clear consensus established
between the relevant authorities .2
11.     The second shortcoming of project design relates to complexity.  The
most innovative aspect of SACII concerned reforming the approach to SOE
privatization. The program called for developing the privatization program
along lines similar to some experiments carried out in Eastern Europe: two
track privatization according to enterprise size, establishment of competing
state holding companies in which all large SOEs would be vested, privatizing
rolling 'batches' of SOEs through partner search, competitive bidding, and
negotiation of monitorable contracts. These plans were internally consistent
and theoretically appealing. However, in the absence of competent
institutions to execute them, simpler program targets would have proven more
manageable.
12.     Both of these issues raise a third point about project design that is
important for successful implementation; provision of adecuate technical
assistance. In areas where institutional capacity is being strained, and
where new methods or new approaches are being developed, both adequate time
and adequate technical assistance to develop the requisite skills and capacity
are essential. Some complementary TA to SACII was in place for development of
the SOE management and privatization component.  The terms of reference for
the TA project was designed with the technical requirements of the SACII
program in mind.3 Complementary TA for the civil service reform component was
not, however, in place due mainly to lack of institutional counterparts and
unexpected delays in adoption of a UNDP funded TA program. Project
implementation would likely have been improved if appropriate TA programs had
been in place at the time of credit approval.
13.    These observations about project design also raise the issue about the
extent to which all relevant parties, particularly the responsible government
agencies, understood the conceptual basis and objectives of the adjustment
program. Government ownership, whether through one ministry or several,
entails coordination during design to ensure commitment to the program and
smooth implementation. Greater effort during project preparation to ensure an
understanding by all parties of the conceptual basis of the program should
have strengthened ownership and implementation.
2 In particular, the targets and goals of civil service restructuring and
retrenchment appear not to have been clearly communicated or understood by the
Office of the Prime Minister and the Central Party Organization before the credit
was approved. These two organs are essential to implementation of the reform
program.
3 This was a PHRD financed grant carried out by Coopers and Lybrand to
establish a SOE monitoring and supervision capacity in the MEPF. Execution of
the TA, however, fell far short of the original terms of reference due in large
part to skill shortages and institutional constraints within the GoL.



5
14.     It should be noted, however, that many of the risks of the operation
were well identified in the Report of the President.  It was recognized that
success of SACII reforms required creating from scratch new administrations
for the budget, the treasury, public accounting, and SOE supervision. The
President's Report also noted the difficulty in carrying out policy changes
that challenge the vested interests in provincial administrations over
budgets, and line ministries over control of SOEs. The risks to carrying out
civil service retrenchment, which is difficult in any country, were not well
identified.  In hindsight, targets were not sufficiently realistic.  The risks
that were not foreseen concerned political resistance to publication of the
budget, and the constraint to institution building posed by Lao's serious
skills shortage. More complete recognition of these risks might have led to a
less ambitious program and more effort up front at consensus building,
including a longer project preparation period.
E.      Prolect Results and Conditionalitv
15.     The program of action supported bv the credit was generally
implemented, but in some areas fell short of the full program objectives.
Macroeconomic policy management during sChe program period was consistent with
program goals and performance was outstanding. Institutional strengthening
supported by the credit was also furthered, but in some instances fell short
of expectations.
16.     During the project period the performance of the Lao economy and of
macroeconomic policy was laudable. The macroeconomic objectives of the SACII
program were fully achieved. Macroeconomic stability was maintained with
inflation falling to 6 percent in 1993, the exchange rate maintaining its
nominal value against the dollar and baht, and the overall fiscal deficit
falling from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 4 percent two years later. Over the
same period improvement of public savings, a central objective of the credit,
was also achieved as the government's current balance shifted from negative
savings of 1% of GDP to positive savings of an equal magnitude. Moreover,
foreign investment in Lao PDR has grown at historically unprecedented rates
since 1991 as investors have gained confidence in the domestic economy. These
clearly demonstrate the broad progress accomplished through the economic
reform program in Lao PDR.
17.     The institutional development objectives proved harder to realize for
several reasons. Perhaps most importantly was the time required to implement
institutional changes was greater than anticipated, due in turn to shortages
of skilled government personnel. Another factor was the time required to gain
political consensus on policy issues or legislation that was cross-cutting and
new. This slowed program implementation and contributed to the delay in
second tranche release. A further factor was the political commitment to
undertake some of the reform measures called for under SACII. This was
particularly true with respect to applying greater transparency to SOE
privatization procedures, and to accountability in government budget
management. A review of the key conditions of the credit help to clarify each
of these points.



6
18.     Conditionality.  Five key conditions applied to the release of the
second tranche under the credit. These are summarized below, along with
actions taken and commentary, for each of the tranche release conditions:
Condition 1: Preparation and publication of the Borrower's FY92 budget
pursuant to reculations, satisfactorv in substance to the Association,
such budget to reflect, among other things, a balanced current account.
In early 1993 the Government issued a budget summary for 1992/93, and for
the previous two years, which reflected the plan for a balanced fiscal
current account in that year.4 The Government did not, however, widely
disseminate the budget to the public, publish it in the Official Gazette,
or adopt publication of the budget on a regular basis.  The 1993/94 budget
has never been published or made available in summary form to the public,
apart from press coverage of the budget presentation to the National
Assembly. This raises some question marks about political commitment to
adopting greater transparency and public accountability of fiscal policy.
Condition 2: Promulgation by the Borrower of a company law, satisfactory
in substance to the Association, with necessary implementing regulations
related thereto. In early 1993 the government approved a company decree
(enterprise decree) and implementing regulations which provide the legal
definition of enterprises, private and public, and sets out the
requirements for registration, conduct, shareholder rights, dissolution,
etc. for the first time in Lao PDR legal history. A decree, rather than a
law, complied with the intent and objectives of this condition because of
the circumstances underlying the overall Lao legal framework and the need
to retain some flexibility in finalizing the law.  In 1994 a new Business
Law was approved by the National Assembly which supersedes most provisions
of the Enterprise Decree. Implementation of both the decree and law, have
been very slow to date. This reflects, however, a shortage of trained
jurists, lawyers, and other specialists capable of speeding implementation
not a lack of commitment to the program.
Condition 3: Centralization at the national treasurv level of all of the
Borrower's treasury operations.  The National Treasury was first
established in 1991. However, actual Treasury operations did not start
until early 1993, due mainly to insufficient qualified staff to implement
Treasury operations.  By mid-1994 Treasury operations were functioning in
about half of the provincial administrations, while the remaining half
operated under the former regulations under which revenues and
expenditures were not channelled through a single national account (the
Treasury). The IMF executed technical assistance to address the skills
shortages, experienced significant delays.
Condition 4:  Adoption of a program, satisfactory to the Association, to
reduce the number of civil service employees of the Borrower. In early
4  The actual outcome was very close to target, with a fiscal current
account deficit in 1992/93 of only -0.2 percent of GDP.



7
1993 the MoF issued a Ministerial Decision setting forth a three year
civil service retrenchment program for 1993 to 1995. The objective of the
program was to reduce non-military civil service employment by 25 percent.
Adoption of this program follows other efforts by the Government during
1992 to streamline the civil service and restructure key ministries. In
late 1992 the first Department of Public Administration (DPA) independent
of the Party was established to draft and administer policies to organize
and regulate the civil service.5  While these measures demonstrated the
GoL's commitment to civil service reform and represented significant
efforts in view of the existing system and lack of qualified personnel,
they nevertheless fell short of initial targets. During credit
negotiations the agreement was to adopt a plan downsizing the civil
service by 25% during the following three years (1992-94). Actual
retrenchment amounted to approximately 3% during 1992. Moreover, the
program issued by the MoF had no formal status outside the MoF, and it was
subsequently shown to lack validation of the DPA.  In sum, it appears that
after negotiations the MoF found the SACII targets were not politically
feasible, although steps taken conform with the intention of the program.
Condition 5: Implementation of the Proqram with respect to orivatizing
public enterprises of the Borrower. In 1992, 24 centrally managed SOEs
were converted to private management. At the provincial level it was
estimated that around 80 small SOEs were similarly privatized.  In 1993 a
list of 25 more central SOEs were identified for privatization. At the
same time the Prime Minister issued a decree establishing a privatization
unit responsible for converting SOEs to private or joint public and
private ownership. This unit was in the new Committee for Planning and
Cooperation (CPC), split off from the MEPF in early 1993. All central
government privatization activities were to be processed through this
unit, and new guidelines establishing transparent procedures were issued.
While these actions facilitated a significant transfer of an estimated 25
to 30 percent of the remaining public portfolio to private management,
they fell short of the original design of the credit. Holding companies
were not established, small enterprises were not auctioned, nor were
parallel batches of SOEs for processing prepared, as called for in the
SACII policy matrix. It is evident now that these measures were not
realistic in the Lao context where standard accounts are still
undeveloped, there is no history of auctions, and management of holding
companies is far beyond the technical capacity or legal framework of the
country. Greater transparency in privatization procedures would, however,
have been feasible had there been more political will.  Ad hoc procedures
continued to be applied throughout 1993 and 1994, and the procedural
regulations of the new privatization unit were never implemented.
5 A large UNDP financed technical assistance program was approved in mid- -
1993 for support to the department of public administration.



8
F.      Bank Performance
19.    The Bank played a key role in preparing, formulating, and finalizing
the SACII design. It is difficult to fully assess ex-post what the Bank's
role was in articulating policy options to Government, but it appears that the
Bank took the lead in presenting options. It is also apparent that the Bank
worked mainly through the MEPF to develop the program design, with less
consultation with other relevant ministries than may have been desirable,
given the cross cutting nature of the adjustment program.  The OPM and the
Party organization (responsible for civil service issues before the DPA was
established) could have been more involved in project preparation. Planning
for revamping of the privatization program was very carefully prepared by the
Bank, but does not appear to have sufficiently considered institutional
constraints in Lao, anticipated political resistance, or fully consulted all
relevant authorities, including the line ministries overseeing SOE management.
20.     It is relevant to note that Bank staff who prepared the credit were
not involved in supervision of the credit. At the time of credit
effectiveness there were coinciding widespread staff changes in the Lao team,
effectively divorcing supervision from preparation. This may have contributed
to some discontinuities in project implementation.
21.    The Bank was instrumental in executing TA in support of the program
objectives. The main TA provisions were for SOE supervision and privatization
(see para. 12) . The TA was well designed to meet program objectives, but in
the end was unable to deliver the full terms of reference due mainly to
slippage in the privatization program and slower than anticipated execution of
the TA. In some other areas important complementary TA was planned but did
not materialize in time for the SACII program. Planned TA on economic
management, including preparation of the Public Investment Program, budget
management, treasury development, and macroeconomic planning was finalized two
years later than initially planned, and therefore could not contribute to
program implementation during the first 18 months of the SACII program.
Similar delays occurred with the UNDP TA for civil service administration,
postponed mainly due to Government delay setting up the DPA. The result was
that complementary TA was inadequate for program requirements, although
efforts on the part of the Bank were made to avoid this.
22.    During SACII supervision these constraints became more evident and
efforts were made by the Bank to modify the objectives of the program. In the
area of civil service restructuring the program attempted to shift towards
establishing the capacity to monitor and analyze civil service staffing and
retrenchment in the DPA rather than concentrate on numeric targets.
Similarly, applying transparent privatization procedures became the priority
rather than attempting further development of overly sophisticated or
inappropriate tools (eg. holding companies were dropped) . Moreover, working
within the constraints of the Lao legal system, implementation of a decree
rather than a law was encouraged.  These modifications helped to refocus the
project, while adopting less ambitious but more realistic objectives.



9
G.      Borrower Performance
23.     Government cooperation with the Bank in project preparation was very
good, and in supervision it was satisfactory. However, in some areas of
project implementation the Government's performance was less forthcoming than
might have been desirable for the purpose of strengthening project outcome.
Major restructuring of Government during the implementation period compromised
project implementation capacity. Planned restructuring of the core economic
ministries resulted in uncertainty about key counterparts and respective
responsibilities for about one year. In 1993, when the MEPF was split into
two ministries (MoF and the CPC) several counterparts changed and coordination
between the two ministries became more difficult.' Information and
coordination between the two ministries still remains weak.
24.     One major shortcoming in implementation concerns coordination across
ministries, a necessary responsibility of Government. No formal mechanism for
program coordination existed, and ad hoc arrangements often proved inadequate.
Discussion of civil service retrenchment between the MoF and DPA, for example,
did not take place until several months after establishment of the DPA, and at
the special request of a Bank mission. Similarly, efforts to modify SOE
privatization procedures and improve SOE data management were complicated by
very weak coordination between the privatization office and the department of
SOE supervision.
25.    A further factor compromising project implementation was the
difficulty of processing TA programs through Government. For most program
components technical assistance was necessary for implementation. Delays in
adoption of TA programs resulted from shortcomings of both Government and
donor organizations. Government consideration of TA proposals was slow, and
there was an apparent reluctance to accept long term technical advisors,
particularly on the budget and on civil service reform.
26.    Given the complex and inter-institutional nature of the adjustment
program, it is particularly important for Government to deploy staff to work
on key program elements and to coordinate activities across ministries while
making appropriate use of technical assistance from the Bank and other
sources. Such deployment of staff was complicated in Lao by the government
restructuring that took place in 1992 and 1993. More attention to continuity
of program implementation would have been valuable.
6 The split particularly affected SOE management (MoF retained supervision
responsibility and CPC privatization) and budget management (MoF manages budget
preparation and current expenditures while the CPC handles public investment
expenditures).



10
Part II: Proiect Review from the Borrower's Perspective
27.     The implementation of SAC II started in early 1989, in the period when
the Government was already pursuing the policy of comprehensive reforms,
aiming at moving the country towards a market economy accompanied by the
Government's regulatory framework, specifically the policy of financial sector
reform to mobilize and manage public resources efficiently. Therefore, SAC II
was geared to support the implementation of the Government policy of
transition to the new economic management mechanism in the following three
areas: (1) state enterprise reform; (2) public resource mobilization; and (3)
enhancement of both public resource management and improved public
administration.
28.     Through the implementation of SAC II it is agreeable with this report
which outlines the attainment of macroeconomic objectives and progress in the
implementation of financial sector reform policy, as expected by the
Government. The national economy has continuously been growing while
maintaining financial stability. This has raised confidence of both domestic
and foreign investors which is reflected in the increasing investments from
year to year. The Balance of payment had been improving as compared to the
previous years. Public administration improved one step further to ensure
enhancement of the macro-management role of the Government.
29.     This positive economic-financial situation and strengthened public
apparatus confirmed the political consensus in the careful formulation and
implernentation of economic reform policy of the Government which had received
efficient support from the Structural Adjustment Projects including IDA's SAC
II.
30.    The primary objectives of SAC II, mobilizing and managing of public
resources; enhancing the public apparatus' capacity to implement the reform
policy in general were basically successfully the reflection of which may be
summarized as follows:
31.    The ratio of public revenue to GDP has increased from 10.7'. in 1992,
to 12.8% in 1994, this was considered to be in line with the target of SAC II
of increasing public savings and reducing budget deficit. For the first time,
the National Budget domestic revenue exceeded its current expenditure; and,
the salaries in the civil service were increased in relations to the
reclassification according to grades and technical ranks along with a gradual
civil service retrenchment.
32.    With respect to the implementation of an Action plan of SAC II it can
be broadly assessed that during the project a Legal Framework was created by
adopting and promulgating a number of Laws and Decrees in the foregoing three
areas, along with the establishment of necessary institutions and regulations
to strengthen implementing capacity of the public apparatus.



,11
33.     The implementation of SAC II should be nevertheless assessed as slow.
This was due to our little experience in economic reform toward market
mechanism, in the transition period. An important issue was to create all
necessary preconditions for macroeconomic stability. It was, therefore,
required to achieve adequate coordination in the formulation and
implementation of related reform policies in order to limit possible negative
impacts. In many instances the Government choose to issue Decrees as a
preliminary step with subsequent revision and adoption as Laws. In addition
the shortage of personnel with adequate qualification was also an obstacle i
the project implementation.
34.    To summarize, the implementation of SAC II has contributed to the
improvement of macroeconomic management mechanism in the aforesaid 3 areas.
Its success has become the foundation of the continuation of the economic
reform policy of the Government in the future.






13
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ll (CREDIT 2304-LA)
Part III: CREDIT DATA
As of September 1, 1994
Original      Disbursed     Cancelled     Repaid        Outstanding
Credit No. 2304-LA      40.0          41.91         -            -                43.65
Original                          Actual
Initiating Memorandum       May 1991                            June 13, 1991
Appraisal                   June 1991                           July 10, 1991
Negotiations                August 22, 1991                     August 22, 1991
Board Approval              October 1, 1991                     October 1, 1991
Credit Agreement            October 10, 1991                    October 10, 1991
Effectiveness               January 10, 1992                    January 2, 1992
Credit Closing              December 31, 1993                   December 31, 1993
Actual Completion           August 30, 1994                     November 30, 1994
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY92         FY93           FY94
(i)    Planned                     20.0          40.0           40.0
(ii)    Actual                     20.7          20.9           41.9
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)             103.6        52.4           104.8
MISSION DATA
No. of Staff
Month, Year          Pers.  Weeks Date of Reports
Preappraisal         April 1991           4       12     May 2, 1991
Appraisal            June 1991            3        1     July 10, 1991
Supervision I        June 1992            1        2     September 1992
Supervision ll       November 1992        1       2      Dec. 31, 1993
Supervision III      February 1993        2       4      Feb. 16, 1993
Completion           February 1994        2       5.4   May 25, 1994
FOLLOW UP OPERATIONS
Lao PDR:             Structural Adjustment Credit III    currently being identified















RyI G- I ]:               5 1 6M 
Type :   r7R,



