                                       Documentof

                                THEWORLD BANK




                                                         Report No. 29493




                PROJECTPERFORMANCERE-ASSESSMENTREPORT



                      LAOPEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC



                   SECOND STRUCTURALADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                                     (Credit 2304-LA)



                                       June 24,2004




Countly Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department

                                  Currency Equivalent

                                          US$1.O=Kip10,467
                                          (December 31,2003)


                                       Government FiscalYear

                                       October 1- September 30




                           Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFC                         Asian Financial Crisis
AFTA                        ASEAN Free Trade Area
ASEAN                       Association of SoutheastAsian Nations
 CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
 DPA                        Department o fPublic Administration
FDI                         ForeignDirect Investment
FMAC                        FinancialManagementAdjustment Credit
 GDP                        GrossDomestic Product
 GOL                        Government of Lao PDR
 ICR                        Implementation CompletionReport
 IMF                        International MonetaryFund
 IPRSP                      InterimPoverty ReductionStrategy Paper
 LTU                        Large Taxpayer Unit
NEM                         NewEconomic Mechanism
N-PL                        Non-Performing Loan
NT2                         NamThem 2 (Hydropower project)
 OED                        Operations EvaluationDepartment
 PER                        Public Expenditure Review
 PPAR                       ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
 PRGF                       PovertyReduction and GrowthFund
 SAC1                       FirstStructuralAdjustment Loan
 SAC2                       SecondStructural Adjustment Loan
 SAC3                       ThirdStructuralAdjustment Loan
 SOCB                       State-Owned Commercial Bank
 SOE                        State-OwnedEnterprise




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                           : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director                                                          : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Senior Manager                                                    : Mr.R.KylePeters
Task Manager                                                      : Ms.Alice Galenson
PPARDreDaredbv                                                    : Mr.RichardCarroll, Consultant

   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence inevaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of theWorld Bankfor two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is
producingthe expected results,and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis giventothosethat are
innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
importantlessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
      A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)and fieldworkconducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing countryfor onsitediscussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validateand augmentthe informationprovided inthe ICR, as well as examineissuesof special interestto broader
OED studies.
      EachPPAR is subjectto a peer reviewprocess and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completedPPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the OED Rating System
      Thetime-testedevaluationmethods used by OED are suitedto the broadrangeof the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer both rigorand a necessarylevelof flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument, project design, or
sectoralapproach. OED evaluators all applythe same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion(more informationis availableon the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
current development prioritiesand with current Bank countryand sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistanceStrategies, Sector StrategyPapers,
Operational Policies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved,taking into
account their relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This ratingis not generallyappliedto adjustmentoperations.
      Susfainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, HighlyUnlikely,Not Evaluable.
     lnstitutionalDevelopment Impact: The extent to which a project improvesthe abilityof a countryor region
to make more efficient,equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial,and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition, stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
better alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impactincludes both intendedand unintendedeffectsof a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to whichthe project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extentto whichservices providedby the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
supported implementation throughappropriatesupervision(includingensuring adequatetransition arrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extentto which the borrowerassumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.


Contents

Preface .................................................................................................................................        ...i
Summary     ...........................................................................................................................          111

Ratings  ...............................................................................................................................         v

1 Introduction
 .                       ...............................................................................................................          1

2.   Country Settingfor SecondStructuralAdjustment Credit                                                     ..................................  1

3.   The Second StructuralAdjustment Credit                                     .............................................................     3
                                                                                                                                                  3
     ComponentsandPolicy Areas.....................................................................................
     Objectives....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                  3

     KeyDates for SAC2....................................................................................................
     Tranche ReleaseConditions ........................................................................................                           4
                                                                                                                                                  4

4.   OutcomeandAssessment                       ..........................................................................................        5
     Outcome     ....................................................................................................................... 5
     Macroeconomic Stabilization. 1991-2002
     Outcomeby Objective/Component.............................................................................
                                                                          ..................................................................      6
                                                                                                                                                  7
     Institutional Development Impact .............................................................................                              11

     BankandBorrowerPerformance..............................................................................
     Sustainability .............................................................................................................                12
                                                                                                                                                 14

5.   ConclusionsandLessons                     .........................................................................................         15


2.1: Timeline ofEconomic EventsinLao PDR. 1986-2004 .......................................
Tables inText
                                                                                                                                                  2
4.1: Major Project Ratings                   ...........................................................................................          6
4.2:    Macroeconomic Indicators. 1991-2002 ................................................................                                      6
4.3:    Overlap of SAC2 (1992-93), andFMAC (2002-04) andthe PER (2002) .......... 9
4.4:    SelectedSocial Indicator Comparisons with Lao PDR, 2002 ..............................                                                   14

Annexes
A
B
C..
  .     Basic Data Sheet ...................................................................................................                     17
        Policy Matrix for the SecondStructural Adjustment Credit to Lao PDR.............19

D       Review ofPrevious Evaluations o fProgressinSAC2 Reform Areas..................25
        List ofPersonsInterviewed..................................................................................                              23


This report was prepared by Richard Carroll (Consultant). with Alice Galenson as Task Manager                                                     .
Silvana Valle provided administrative support.


                                              1



Preface

        This Project Perfomance Re-assessmentReport (PPRR) reviews the Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) to the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao
PDR). SAC2 became effective on January 8, 1992, andwas disbursedintwo equal
tranches o fUS$20million equivalent each, the first on January 8, 1992 and the second on
December 17,1993. SAC2 closed on December 31,1993 as planned. SAC2 was
previously assessedby OED in 1995. This report re-assessesSAC2 outcome and other
major ratings, and examines the effect o f elapsedtime since project close on makingsuch
an assessment.

        This PPRRis basedon the project completionreport, the 1995 OED assessment,
documents from the project files, interviews with Bankstaff, and a field missionto Lao
PDR, whichtook place inJuly2003. InLao PDR, interviews were conductedwith
government officials who hadknowledgeo fthe SAC2 operation as well as the current
situation inthe policy areas relevant to SAC2. Bankstaff at the resident mission in
Vientiane andthe regionalmissioninBangkok, Thailandwere also interviewed.

        The PPRRwas sent to the Government o f Lao PDR for comments. Comments
from the Banko f Lao PDRhavebeenreflectedinthis re-assessment.


                                              ...
                                              111




Summary

1.       The objective of the second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC2) was to support
the consolidationof the comprehensive reforms undertakenbythe government under the
NewEconomicMechanism(NEM)inthe areas o f (i)           enterprise reform, focusing on
privatization andprivate sector development; (ii)  resource mobilization, through revenue
enhancing policy measures and administrative capacity building; and (iii)   public resource
management upgrading, by developing a healthy public investment program, a budget
management administrationmore capable o f enforcingbudget discipline and conducting
short-term fiscal policy, a more compact andcost-effective administration and a reduced,
butmoremotivated, civil service. The fhds from the credit (US$40 millionequivalent)
would help finance Lao PDR's external financing requirement as Soviet financing waned.
These objectives appeared as logical next steps following the first Structural Adjustment
Credit, andwere consistent with NEMpriorities.

2.       InimplementingSAC2 andinits aftermath, however, itbecameclear that the
government was not as committed to the reform vision o f SAC2 as the Bankhad
anticipated and as was requiredfor a successful outcome. The conditions were met and
the credit disbursed fully, but there was minimal progress intwo o fthe three components
o fthe credit. This ProjectPerformance Re-assessmentReport (PPRR) re-assessesSAC2
withthe advantage of a 10-year recordinthe major reform areas addressedbythe
operation.

3.       Outcome is downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory. Although reform
implementationhas improvedrecently, there has been a general lack o f progress inmost
areas duringmost o fthe period since SAC2 close. This lack o fprogress i s reflectedin
the assessment o fthe 2002 Public ExpenditureReview and ina number o freforms that
were repeated insubsequent operations, most notably the FinancialManagement
Assistance Credit (FMAC). The sustainability rating i s changed from likelyto unlikely.
The sustainabilityof SAC2 i s now a matter of record, andit i s clear that a reasonable rate
o freform progress was not sustained inmost areas. The institutionaldevelopment impact
rating i s unchanged at modest.

4.       BankandBorrowerperformance are ratedwithrespect to two different
timeframes. Bankperformance i s rated satisfactory, althoughwithmajor weaknesses,
through the close o f SAC2, but unsatisfactory through the continuationo fthe reform
program to the present. The Bankwas not effective incultivating borrower ownership,
nor did it take adequately into account the government's concerns about the openness the
reforms would require. Inthe end, the Bankhadto re-visit much o fthe conditionality o f
SAC2ina subsequent operation (FMAC). Borrowerperformance is downgraded from
satisfactory at the close o f SAC2 to unsatisfactory subsequently, mainly becauseo f
minimal commitment to implementing ina meaningful way the reforms incivil service,
public resource management andresource mobilization, the core o fthe SAC2 program.

                                             iv


In addition, there was serious slippage inmacroeconomic managementjust prior to the
Asian FinancialCrisis, which led to triple digit inflation.

5.      The major lessons fiom the re-assessment are that (i) civil service right-sizing
needs to be established within an overall vision ofwhat the citizens need and expect o f
the public sector; (ii)
                     government ownership is critical, and commitment at the technical
level does not equal commitment at the decisionmaker level; (iii)  before attemptingto
achieve a better performing civil service through improvedincentivepackages, the
resources to fimdthose incentives must be secured; (iv) low implementation capacity
should not be blamedfor shortcomings inBank-supported operations, when lack o f
government commitment is the main cause; and (v) the Bank should pay closer attention
to the powerDfexternal world events inshaping the views o fpolicy-makers.




                                                    GregoryK. Ingram
                                                     Director-General
                                                  Operations Evaluation

                                               V




Ratings

PerformanceRating:'S
                          Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2304)
                             Project                  OED 1995            OED
Category                     completion report        assessment          PPRR
                                                                          Moderately
Outcome                      Satisfactory             Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development
Impact                       Modest                   Modest              Modest
Sustainability               Likely                   Likely              Unlikely
Bank Performance             N.A.                     N.A.                Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance         N.A.                     N.A.                Unsatisfactory


 1.      Introduction

 1.1     This Project Performance Re-assessmentReport (PPRR) assesses the
development outcome o fthe second ina series o fthree structural adjustment credits
(SAC2) to the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). SAC2 closed inDecember
 1993 andwas assessedby OED in 1995. This PPRR is a part o f a pilot exercise designed
to test the durability o f the results, that is whether the findings o f an evaluation change if
the operation is evaluated after a longer interval. This reportpresentsthe ratingso f
previous evaluations, records the new information since those evaluations, andprovides
new ratings based on the additional information.

 1.2     The first OED assessmentrated the design, implementationandresults o f SAC2
satisfactory, based largely on completion o fthe measures includedinthe project. This
PPRRhas the advantage o fa longtime periodduringwhich to examine whether the
measuresandmomentum o f SAC2 were sustained. It also faces the difficult task of
having to sort out many other factors inLao PDRdevelopment inorder to make some
reasonable attributiono fthe specific outcome o f SAC2. DidSAC2 make a significant
difference to Lao PDRdevelopment inthe areas covered? The 10-year recordo f
progress o fthe individual components will indicatewhether SAC2 components were
steps ina significant development process, or whether the steps hadto be repeated down
the road. The number o f steps that hadto be repeated should give a good indicationo f
the actual development impact o f SAC2.


2.       CountrySettingfor Second StructuralAdjustmentCredit

2.1      After 11years of a centrally-planned economic system, the Government o fLao
PDR(GOL) adoptedtheNew EconomicMechanism(NEM)atthe PartyCongress of
1986. The NEMwas Lao PDR's planto introducemarket forces into the economy by
opening trade and foreign investment, buildingupthe private sector and improving
economic management. The NEMrepresented a kindo f"market socialism" based onthe
Hungarianmodel. The first reformmeasureswere much like those that followed inthe
former Soviet Unioncountries early intheir transitions: price and exchange rate
liberalization, autonomy o f state enterprises and authorizationo fprivate sector activities.
The Banksupported the transition inLao PDRwith the first Structural Adjustment Credit
(SACl), which became effective inAugust 1989. SACl supported five areas, including
enterprise reform, financial sector development and fiscal reforms. SACl was fully
implementedandratedhighlysatisfactory by OED inits 1995 assessment. Table 2.1
summarizes economic events andBank and Fundoperations duringthe pre- andpost-
SAC2 periods.

2.2     The macroeconomic setting for SAC2 was characterized by an abatement o f
inflation &om 68 percent in 1989 to 3.4 percent in 1991, rising fiscal revenues (9.5
percent o f GDP in 1989 to 12.7 percent in 1990), rising exports (17 percent annual
growth during 1989-90) andmaintenance o f positive real interest rates to reduce excess
demandfor credit. Public sector savings, however, hadturned from plus2.5 percent in
1986 to minus 3.3 percent in 1989. The GOL expanded credit to state enterprises, which

                                                        2


ledto a 90 percent increase inliquidityin 1989. Bothproblems emanated from the
public sector framework o f autonomy without accountability. The following year
liquiditygrowthwas reduced to 14percent. This issueis particularlyrelevantbecause,
 12 years later, the problem o f excessive lendingby thebankingsector to state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) became the centerpiece o fthe FinancialManagement Adjustment
Credit (FMAC, FY02).

Table2.1: TimelineofEconomicEventsinLao PDR, 1986-2004
Event                                                                         Timing
New Economic Mechanismannounced                                                 1986
SAC 1 (Effectiveness to Close)                                              06189-01192
Structural Adjustment Facility (SDR20.51 mln.)-IMF                          09189-09192
SAC 2                                                                       01/92-12/93
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (SDR35.19 mln.)-IMF                 06193-05197
Asian Financial Crisis                                                      06197-12198
SAC 3 (Effectiveness to Close)                                              07196- 12198
Poverty Reductionand GrowthFacility (SDR31.70 mln.)-IMF                     04101-04104
FinancialManagement Adjustment Credit (Effectiveness to close)              06102-04104

2.3      The number o f SOEs was gradually reduced, but the majority o fthe most valuable
ones were still not privatized, andthey were causing a substantial fiscal drain. Because
o f a lack data, it i s not knownhow much o f a drain; however, currently, even with further
privatizations, the budget costs o f SOEs are believedto be substantial, andtheir non-
performing loans have ledto the insolvency o fmost state-owned commercialbanks
(SOCBs). At a minimum, improved financialperformance andmonitoringwere needed.

2.4     The GOLhad already reducedthe size o f the civil service by 20 percent under
SACl, but the Bankand GOL agreedthat further significantreductions were needed due
to low productivityandthe need for fiscal savings. Budget formulation was neither
systematic nor transparent. Budgetswere not published, there was no linkage between
expenditure planningand a realistic projection o frevenues, development expenditures
were not well planned, andthere was chronically insufficientbudget for recurrent costs.

2.5     One more factor is critical to the setting for SAC2.' Prior to SAC2 effectiveness
inFY91andearlyFY92, the first tranche releaseconditions were carriedout inan
atmosphere o f enthusiasm for a market economy andthe expected benefits. This
enthusiasm waned as SAC2 approached Boardpresentation (October 1, 1991). Although
the reasonsfor the slowdown o fthe reformmomentumcannot be documented, it
coincidedwith two important events. First, centrally-planned economies were collapsing
aroundthe world. Opennesshadbrought down the Berlin Wall, brokenup the Soviet
empire and sparked the Tianamen Square uprising. The Lao PDRrevolutionary
government may have feared similar reactions, andretreat from opennessreplaced
enthusiasm for reform. Second, the key reformchampion, the Deputy Prime Minister,
Saly Vongkamsao died in 1991. H i s death was a blow to reform, because he was not
only energetically pushingreforms, he also had legitimacy with the Politburo andthe
military,havingbeenone ofthe originalrevolutionariesthat seizedcontrol o fthe
government in 1975. The balance o fpower among the Lao PDR leadership shifted

' TheGovernmentdoesnot believethat this factor was critical.

                                              3


 toward a more closed, military-dominated approach, which was the environment
 prevailing at the time o f SAC2 effectiveness.

 3.      The Second StructuralAdjustmentCredit

 Objectives

 3.1    The overarching objective o f SAC2 was to help establishthe structural
 underpinnings o f a market system, moving away from market socialism andtoward state
 andprivate capitalism. Theprojectwould support the consolidation o fthe
 comprehensive reforms undertaken by the government under the NEMinthe areas o f (i)
 enterprise reform, focusing on privatization andprivate sector development; (ii)resource
 mobilization, through revenue enhancing policy measuresand administrative capacity
 building; and(iii) resource management upgrading, bydevelopingahealthypublic
                     public
 investment program, a budget management administrationmore capable o f enforcing
 budget discipline and conducting short-term fiscal policy, a more compact and cost-
 effective administration, anda reduced, but more motivated, civil service. The funds
 fiom the credit (US$40million equivalent) would help finance Lao PDR's external
 financingrequirement as Soviet financing waned. These objectives appeared as logical
next steps following SACl, andwere consistent with NEMpriorities. It later became
clear, however, that the GOLwas not as committed to the reform vision o f SAC2 as the
Bankhadanticipated andas was requiredfor success.

 Components and Policy Areas

3.2     Annex Bprovidesthe original policymatrix, including non-core as well as core
conditions. SAC2 covered the following activities:

Enhance Enterprise Profitability

w       Privatize SOEs
 w      Improve SOEs' financial performance andprepare them for privatization
w       Create an enabling environment for market operation (for example, contract,
        property and labor law and enterprise accounting)
        Promote foreign investment.


Mobilize Public Resources

        Improve cost recovery
w       Collect rent onnaturalresources
        Improve return on government assets
w       Strengthen revenue collection.


Improve Public Management

w       Strengthen budget discipline
w       Restore a systematic approach to development expenditure

                                               4


        Improvethe cost-effectiveness o f government (improve terms o f employment,
        reduce size o f civil service).


 Tranche Release Conditions

 3.3    Although the SAC2-supported programwas wide-ranging, the number o f core,
 tranche release conditions, all o fwhich were met, was modest:

 First Tranche

        Create Department o f SOEs Supervision andPrivatization, with adequate staffing
        Adopt SOE Decree
 8      Adjust domestic electricity priceby40 percent (indollar terms)
        Adopt Five-Year Investment Program satisfactory to IDA.
 Second Tranche

 8      Satisfactory implementation o fthe privatizationprogram
        Effectiveness o fEnterprise Law and ImplementationDecrees
 8      Publish1993budget, following budgetlegislation, showingcurrent balance
        Centralize Treasury operations
 8      Adopt program to reduce civil service by at least 25 percent.

 3.4    The 1995 OED assessmentdescribed the SAC2 program as ambitious. Iti s true
that the aim was ambitious. However, the core conditions were relatively easy to fulfill,
with the exceptions o fraisingthe electricitypriceby40 percent andcentralizingTreasury
operations. Many o fthe rest constituted only intermediate steps to the reforms that
would produce real outcomes. One example was the adoption of aprogram to reduce the
civil service by at least 25 percent, not the actual reduction. This first OED assessment
commented that once the program supported by SAC2 reachedthe stage o f transforming
entrenched institutions, the initiative behind reform hadwaned andprogress had slowed.
Despite the ambitious aims o fthe program, the conditions were o f a nature that they
couldbe fulfilled without significant development impact.

Key Dates for SAC2

3.5     SAC2 became effective on January 8, 1992. The credit o fUS$40million
equivalent was disbursed intwo equal tranches, the first on January 8, 1992 andthe
second on December 17, 1993. The credit closed on December 31, 1993. SAC2 was
carried out as originally scheduled with no delays or extensions. Itspredecessor, SAC1
closed inJanuary 1992, just at the start o f SAC2, so the reform programwas continuous
andbackedupwith lendingoperations. SAC3, onthe other hand, didnot become
effective untiltwo and one halfyears after SAC2 closed. Reforms continued, but not as
intensively. BanWFund support to andevents inthe reformprogram are listed in
Table 2.1 above. Ingeneral, the early reformprogramwas cautious, but steady during
1986-89, got aboost from SAC1 during 1989-91, continued, but with less successful
implementationunder SAC2 during 1992-93, improvedduring 1994-96 as SAC3 began
inmid-1996, butthendeclinedsharplyduring 1997-2000, withapoor choiceo f

                                              5


investments, exacerbated by the Asian Financial Crisis. Reform efforts have begunto get
back on track since 2001, but not without problems, including delays inmeetingFMAC
conditions.

4.      Outcome andAssessment

4.1     This section evaluates the development outcome, institutionaldevelopment
impact, andsustainability o f SAC2 by assessingthe progress to date inthe areasthat it
addressed. The implementationrecordwas coveredbythe project completionreport and
the 1995 OED assessment(seeAnnex D). Bank andBorrowerperformance with respect
to SAC2 were also described (but not rated) inthese reports; this report evaluates their
performance up to the close o fthe operation as well as inthe context o f subsequent,
relatedoperations.

Outcome

4.2     Thisreport adheresto a standard for a satisfactory outcome ratingthat requires
not only that the country didnot nullifythe measureso f SAC2, but that, inthe ensuing 10
years, there was a reasonable continuationo fprogress inthe areas that SAC2 addressed.
This continuationis critical to a satisfactory ratingbecauseSAC2 encompassedmainly
intermediate measures, such as the submission o f laws, drafiing o f guidelines andplans,
andadopting programs. The realdevelopment impact ofthesemeasureswouldbe
realizedonly ifthe next steps o f implementationand enforcement were to take place. By
anyreasonable standard, the 10-year perspective offers sufficient time for thesenext
steps to occur.

4.3     The approach to assessingthe development outcome of SAC2 i s not so muchthe
untanglingo fthe effects o fSAC2 fkom SACl and SAC3 andother operations, butrather
reviewingthe progress inthe areasthat SAC2 sought to advance and answering the
question: DidSAC2 promote changes that were sustained andbuilt upon ina significant
way? Ifso, the outcome is satisfactory. It i s not merely a question o fwhether it was
better to have implementedSAC2 or not, but whether Lao PDR i s where it could
reasonably expect to be with respect to the SAC2 reform areas, given the time elapsed
since the project closing date. On this basis, outcome is rated moderately
unsatisfactory, compared to satisfactory inthe 1995 OED assessment (Table 4.1). The
original OED assessment evaluated SACl andSAC2 together (Annex D). The
evaluation o f SACl was very positive interms o f meeting its development objectives.
Although the outcome o f SAC2 was rated satisfactory, reform momentumwas already
waning. Ratingso foutcome bycomponent, which were not available inpreviousreports,
are discussedbelow.

                                                              6


 Table 4.1: Major Project Ratings
                                Project completion          1995OED       PPRR (up to    PPRR (up to
  Category                              report             assessment    project close)    present)
                                                                                         Moderately
 Outcome                            Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory

 Institutional
 Development Impact                    Modest                 Modest                       Modest
 Sustainability                        Likely                 Likely                       Unlikely
 BankPerformance                         N.A.                  N.A.       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
 Borrower Performance                    N.A.                  N.A.       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory



 Macroeconomic Stabilization, 1991-2002

 4.4       Maintaining a stablemacroeconomic framework i s a general condition for
 virtually all structural adjustment loans, including SAC2. The government's letter of
 development policy for SAC2 describedmacro-stabilizationpolicies emphasizing
 inflation managementandresourcemobilization. At the time of SAC2, GOLwas also
 enteringintothe secondyear of a StructuralAdjustmentFacilitywith the IMF. Table 4.2
 presents macroeconomic trendsjust preceding and for all years available following
 SAC2. Although there are some data gaps, it is clear that growthwas strong for most
 years andheldup well even duringthe economic crisis of 1998-99, whenrealannual
 GDP growthaveraged5.6 percent. However, inflationwas volatile. Inflationwas fairly
 low following SAC2, but edgedup into double digitsduring 1995-97 before soaring to
 over 80 percentin 1998 and 134percent in 1999. Inflationfell to 10.6 percent in2000
 andto 7.5 percentin2001, butthendoubled to 15.2percentin2002.




Iofperiod
 Source: IMF, Ministry of Finance, World DevelopmentIndicators
 a. Excludinggrants

                                                 7


4.5     One objective o f SAC2 was to improve revenue generation. Government
revenue, which stood at 10.9 percent o f GDP in 1991, didnot show steady improvement.
Instead, it fluctuated, risingto 13 percent o f GDP in 1996, then falling to around 10
percent o f GDP in 1998-99, andrisingagain to an estimated at 13.6 percent in2001.
While revenues were erratic, more troubling was that expenditures were about double
revenues during 1995-99, which explains the increase o f debt fiom 120percent o f gross
national income to 200 percent duringthat period. The overall Government Balance
excluding grants had a higherdeficit inall 10 years during 1993-2002 compared with the
overallbalance before SAC2 of -5.7 percent.

4.6     The SAC2-supported programhad solid outputs interms o fimprovingthe legal
fiamework andremovingbarriersto foreign direct investment (FDI), and, for a time,
good outcomes inthe form o f increased FDI(fromonly 0.7 percent o f GDP in 1991to
8.5 percent in 1996). However, FDIdwindled steadily to an anemic 1.4 percent o f GDP
by2001. There are indicationsthat FDIimprovedin2002.

4.7     The general conclusion f?om the data inTable 4.2 i s that while growth was strong
throughout the post-SAC2 years, most other major indicators that were relatedto SAC2
conditionality either stagnated or deteriorated compared to pre-SAC2 levels, with a
period o fhighmacro-instability during 1998-99.

4.8     There havebeen gains inpoverty and social indicators, and aportion o f the
poverty reductionmay attributable to the growth that was spurred on by improved PSD, a
SAC2 reform area. The povertyheadcount fell from 46 to 38.6 percent o f the population
between 1992/93 (LECS 1) and 1997/98 (LECS 2) andto 30.7 percent o f the population
by2002/03 (LECS 3). The gains insocial indicatorssuch as literacy, schoolenrollment
andchild mortality rates were not relatedto any SAC2 conditions.

Outcomeby Objective/Component

Enterprise Reform and PSD (Moderately Satisfactorj)

4.9     To date, although a diagnostic audit o fthe largest SOEs i s underway, there is still
no clear picture o fthe fiscal impact o f SOEs at the time o f SAC2. What is knowni s that
in1989, prior to SAC1, there were reportedto be 640 SOEscomparedto about 150SOEs
in2003. There arenodatato indicate what shareo fthe value o fSOEshasbeen
privatized, but it i s believed to be considerably less than half. Inany case, SOEs account
for a small part o f the total labor force; there were fewer than 50,000 persons employed
inSOEsin1989, before privatizationbegan.

4.10    Currently, five SOEs are o fparticular concern because o fthe non-performing
loans (NFLs) that they have generated. The large SOEs that remainpriorities for
restructuringinclude Pharmaceutical FactoryNo. 3, Lao Aviation, and Electricit6 de Lao.
These SOEs alone probably represent more value than all o fthe SOEs privatized to date.
GOLdoesnot intendto privatizethese entities, but is engagedinarestructuringprogram.

4.11 The GOLi s makingsomeprogress inenterprise governance by establishing
Boards o fDirectors andpromoting financial andmanagerial autonomy and

                                               8


responsibility. The Banki s tryingto buildcapacity at the MOF to monitor performance
o fthe SOEs (a non-core condition o f SAC2), a function not currently carried out inany
meaningful way. Most SOEs do compete, either with imports, the private sector or other
SOEs. There are four important manufacturingsectors inLao PDR: garments, which i s
mostly foreignprivate; construction materials, which i s still comprised o f SOEs; wood-
processing, mostly SOEs; and food processing, mostly private.

4.12    Enterprise reformhas not had a stellar performance, but it i s clear that since
SAC2manymore enterprises havejoined the private sector andthe remaining SOEs face
greater accountability, with the major ones under restructuring plans. The effect o f
increasing privatizationis reflectedinthe changing structure o f GDP shown inTable 4.2.
The Lao PDReconomy has become increasinglyindustrialduring 1991-2002, with the
industry share o f GDP risingfiom 17to 23 percent, while agriculture's share fell from 58
to 51 percent and services remained about the same. The private sector's share o f
manufacturinghas increased to 80 percent andits shareo fbankingsector credit, which
stood at only 16percent in 1989, now accounts for 70 percent. Inaddition, two-thirds o f
non-hydropower exports originate inthe private sector.

Mobilizing Public Resources (Unsatisfactory)

4.13    As notedabove andindicatedinTable 4.2, revenue mobilizationhas been erratic,
accounting for 10.9 percent o f GDP at the beginningo f SAC2 and 10.6 percent eight
years later (it averaged 12percent during 1995-2001). GOL implemented cost recovery
measuresfor some infiastructure services, such as electricity, butnot on a systematic
basis, andthis issue has beenre-visitedbythe Bank a number o f times (inSAC3, in
country assistance strategies, and, most recently, inthe FMAC, see Table 4.3). A cost-
recovery-based tariffpolicy for utilities is still not inplace. More recent revenue
mobilizationefforts, such as institution ofthe Large Taxpayer Units, have also not
progressed at a reasonable pace. SAC2 didnot establish quantitative targets for revenue
mobilization.

Improving Public Management (Unsatisfactory)

4.14    Budget discipline didnot improve significantly, as expenditures exceeded
revenues bywide margins throughout the 1990sandbeyond. For transparency, the
detailed budget was also to bepublished on an annual basis, but that practice ceased and
was only recentlyresumed. The GOL did approve a five-year investment plan, which
proved a very challengingcondition to fulfill, mainly over agreement on its composition.
Subsequentinvestment planningexercises, such as were part o f the early IPRSP process
eight years later, revealed that investment planningcapacity hadnot significantly
progressed. Basic principles, such as developing a public investment planwithin a
realistic resource envelope, were not adhered to.

                                                   9


Table 4.3: Overlap of SAC: 1992-93), and FMAC (2002-             )andthePER(2002)
                                1992-93                          2002-03
                                SAC2-Supported Program (Core     FMAC Conditions/
Component/Issue                 Conditionsin Bold)               PER Recommendations
I. SOEReform
Performance accountability      Implementperformance             Issuea decree requiring that
(M&E o ffinances of SOEs).      targeting and monitoring         financial and operational
                                instruments for financial        performance o f all SOEs be reported
                                supervision o f SOEs. (1992)     to the MOF. (FMAC 2002)
                                Adoption of SOE decree to        IssuancethroughMOF o f
                                reformrightsand                  implementingregulations to the
                                responsibilitiesof SOE           Decree on Management o f State-
                                managersand the State.           InvestedEnterprises, DecreeNo.
                                (1992)                           54PM (May 9,2002) satisfactory to
                                                                 the Association. (FMAC 2002)
Privatize SOEs andreduce        Adoption o fa privatization      Privatize the SOEs that have the
fiscal drain.                   decree and satisfactory          greatestlosses. (FMAC 2002)
                                implementationof the
                                privatizationprogram. (1992)

                                Ongoing selection every six
                                months o fpriority list o f
                                enterprises for privatization
                                withinthe following 12months.
                                (1992)
Frameworkneededfor public       Effectiveness o fImplementation  Adopt aregulationo f the MOF on
financial management.           Decree to the Accounting Law.    Public Accounting andProcedures
                                (1992)                           for implementingDecree no. 20 on
                                                                 the General Regulationo fPublic
                                                                 Accounting (Feb. 18,1993).
                                                                 (FMAC)
II. MobilizingResources                                          "Beyond the failure to buildrevenue
                                                                 collection, contingent liabilities o f
                                                                 the GOL from state-owned
                                                                 commercial banks andSOEs pose
                                                                 the most serious threat to fiscal
                                                                 sustainability over the medium
                                                                 term." (PER 2002)
Tariffs are below cost recovery Adjust domesticelectricity       Adopt tariff policythat incorporates
level.                          priceby 40% and maintain         cost recovery. (FMAC 2002)
                                export priceparity. (1992)
                                Increasetelephone domestic       Study tariff structure and prepare
                                tariffs by 80% and maintain      tariff policies for Lao
                                price inline withself-financing. Telecommunications. (FMAC 2002)
                                [1992)
m. ImprovingPublic                                               "Acute weaknesses r e s i n in
Management                                                       budget preparation and execution,
                                                                 and expenditure controls." (PER
                                                                 2002)
Controlbudgetexecution and      Publishthe 1992budget            Steps toward fiscal transparency
:nsure its transparency.        following Budget Legislation.    would include...annual publication
                                                                 ofthe budget document shortly after
                                                                 itis approvedbythe National
                                                                 Assembly..   .. (PER 2002)

                                                   10


Table 4.3: Overlapof SAC2 (1992-93), and FMAC (2002-04) and the PER(2002) (Cont.)
                              I 1992-93
                                1                               I 2002-03
                                 SAC2-Supported Program (Core  I FMAC    Conditions/
Component/Issue                  Conditions in Bold)             PER Recommendations
                                 Adopt public accounting          GOLneedsto significantly improve
                                 legislation. (1992)              the accounting and auditing
                                                                  framework and institutionsto ensure
                                                                  accountability o fpublic resources
                                                                  includingthose o f SOEs. (PER
                                                                  2002)
                                 Establish control over budget    Effective expenditure controls at the
                                 commitments. (1992)              commitment levelare neededto
                                                                  avoid the risks o f undermining
                                                                  macroeconomic stabilityand
                                                                  sectoral policy plans during budget
                                                                  implementation. (PER 2002)
                                 CentralizeTreasury               [Treasury operations were later
                                 Operations                       decentralized.]
Lack o fbudget transparency.     Adoption o fprocurement          EstablishaProcurementMonitoring
                                 regulations. (1992)              Office within MOF. fFMAC 2002)


4.15    Although the mainpro forma institutionalchange called for inSAC2, the creation
o f a Department o fPublic Administration, was carried out, there has been little real
progress incivil service reform inthe past 10 years. SAC2 also aimed at civil service
reductions, and although a 20 percent reductionwas carriedout inconnectionwith
SAC1, the 25 percent further reductionunder SAC2 never materialized. Only theplun to
reduce by 25 percent was adopted,thus fulfillingthe strict terms o fthe tranche release
condition, but not realizingthe intendedimpact o f improvingthe efficiency o fthe civil
service.

4.16    The further reductiono fthe civil service also aimed at correcting the problem o f
ex-military,who were still clinging to (essentially "safety net") employment withthe
civil service more than 15 years after hostilities hadceased. Another worthwhile
objectivewas to make the bureaucracy more service-oriented and less a vehicle to reward
partymembers.

4.17    Animportantpartofthis component was to offer anattractive incentivepackage
for civil servants inorder to attract qualified civil servants andto encourage good
performance. Such a package was not offered, andthere has beenlittle, ifany, progress
inthis areainthepast 10years. Fieldinterviewsrevealedthat the current GOLsolution
i s simply to permit civil servants to work secondjobs, such as fanning or teaching, to
supplement their sub-standard civil service wages. Perhaps the mainreason for the lack
o fprogress inimproving the civil service incentive package is that the GOL has also
made very little progress inrevenue generation, which i s essential to finance more
generous compensation, evenwith feasible staff reductions. With government revenue
accounting for 12 to 13 percent o f GDP, and already largebudget deficits, there simply is
not enough money to bringcivil service wages inline with the cost of living.

                                              11


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.18     The 1995 OED assessmentrated institutionaldevelopment impact (IDI)modest.
The subsequent eight years o f experience inLao PDR demonstrated a continuedweak
IDI,which is ratedmodestbythis PPRR. Major evidence o fthe general lack of
institutional progress inthe SAC2 reform areas i s the fact that many ofthe SAC2
objectives were re-introduced 10years later inthe FMACthat became effective inJune
2002. Table 4.3 presentsinstances o fwhere FMAC conditionality and/or the
recommendations o fthe 2002 PER are similar to the conditions o f SAC2. Insome cases
the overlap i s not an exact repetitiono fthe SAC2 condition, but inthese instances it
appears that progress hasbeen minimal. Measures dealing with budget control and
transparency inSAC2, for example, reappear inthe PER(2002) as the need for abasic
framework for accounting and auditing and for effective expenditure controls, which
indicates that the efforts toward budget control neither advanced very far nor led to the
expected outcomes.

Macroeconomic Stabilization (Modest)

4.19     SAC2 was not part o f a process that ushered ina new regime o fmacro
responsibility, or successful debt management and FDIpromotion, as evidenced by the
errant fiscal andmonetarypolicies o fthe late 1990s.

Enterprise Reform (Modest)

4.20    This component hasbenefitedfiom some institutional development that naturally
goes along with privatization, andthe number o f enterprises instate hands has fallen
considerably. However, it is impossibleto measure institutionaldevelopment impact in
this area, because monitoring and evaluation are extremely weak, and this, itself, reflects
weak institutional development.

Mobilization of Public Resources (Negligible)

4.21    The record onpublic resource mobilization andmanagement i s weak. The GOL
publishedonly a very briefbottom line statement ofthe budget, allowing no public
scrutiny o fdetailed revenues and expenditures, and stopped publishingthe budget
altogether after 1993. Onlyvery recently (July 2002) has the GOLpublisheda detailed
budget. Measures to increase revenues have not been institutionalized, andthe Large
Taxpayer Unitsare not functioning well.

Civil Service Reform (Negligible)

4.22    The GOL still has not addressedthe strategic question o fwhat i s the appropriate
size o fthe civil service giventhe ongoing decentralization, the fiscal constraints, and a
reasonable standardo f service to the population. Makingthis assessment is important to
deepening the IDI. This issue was acknowledgedinthe 1995 OED assessment andwas
echoed ininterviews o fdonor stakeholders during the fieldmission for this re-
assessment. The assessmentpointed out that the fundamental obstacle to civil service
reform i s the absence o f guidelines and objectives as to what sort o f a civil service the
country needs. It notedthat reducing the number of civil servants may alleviate the fiscal

                                               12


 burden, but does not filly addressthe problem. The UNDPhas funded technical
 assistance for over a decade to assist with this issue. Fieldinterviews exploring the issue
 o fTA effectiveness inbuildingcapacity suggestedthat many o fthe same areas are
 addressedrepeatedly, implyinglittle progress. The articulation o f functional
 responsibilities o f government organizations, the implementationo fjob descriptions, and
 merit-basedpromotioninthe civil service are not much farther aheadthan 10years ago.
 The Bankbears some responsibility for this lack of a strategic approach early on,
 because, at the time o f SAC2, the Bankwas focused on continued civil service reductions
 without adequately examining the overallmission andresponsibilities o f civil servants.

 Sustainability

 4.23    The additional elapsed time since project close inthis re-assessment allows more
 time for factors outside the project to play a greater role. It i s clear after 10years that the
 sustainabilityof SAC2 is unlikely. A number o f factors affectedpost-closingprogress
 inthe SAC2 areas.

Asian Financial Crisis

 4.24    The Asian Financial Crisis (AFC) i s often presented ingovernment circles as the
 mainreasonwhy the Lao PDR economic reformprogramwent off track. Among other
 things, GOLwas not able to meet its macroeconomic targets, which ledto the
 cancellation o f the second tranche o f SAC3 andthe suspension o fthe IMFprogram.
 However, ifthe timeline o fpolicies i s more carefilly examined, the GOLwas beginning
 to move down a paththat would lead to economic problems with or without the AFC (see
below). Still, the crisis was damaging to the Lao PDR economy. The Kip was tied to the
 Bhat andwhen the Bhat fell, so didthe Kip. The contractiono fthe Thai economy also
 hurtLao PDRthrough lower exports andremittances. Inaddition, whenthe Bhat
recovered, the Kip didnot. The Kip's realvalue fell by 25-30 percent, which was no
 doubt due inlarge measure to the rampant, triple digit inflation in 1999.

Inflation Related to Massive Agriculture Investment

4.25     The partyCongress o f 1996produced a development planto address the problem
that rural areas hadbeenmore or less left out o fthe considerable growth since the NEM
was launched in 1986. To stimulate development inthe rural areas, the GOLinvesteda
large amount o fresources, far more thanthey could afford, inthe agriculture sector,
specifically irrigation. The GOL aimed to increase irrigatedriceproductionby
expandingarea cultivated from 22,000 hato 100,000 ha. Largesums were invested in
irrigationpumps and civil works to expandareaharvested. To pay for the investments,
the GOLprintedmoney andborrowedheavily from the CentralBank. Inthe short-run
(1999-2000), the investment didresult ina large increase indry seasonrice production.
Soonhowever, maintenance costs, which hadnot beenbudgeted, soared. Inflation
jumped from 19.3 percent in 1997 to 87.4 percent in 1998 and 134.0 percent in 1999,
repeating the experience o fthe late 1980s. Clearly, earlier lessons o f macroeconomic
stability hadnot been learned, and stabilityprovednot to be as sustainable as asserted in
the first OED assessment.

                                             13


Implementation Capacity

4.26     A chronic issue for Lao PDRis the adequacyofskills withwhich to implement
reforms andprograms. The 1995 OED assessment cited the Bank's overestimate o f
GOL's implementationcapacity as a decisive flaw inthe design andpreparationo f
SAC2. Country assistancestrategies andPERs have subsequently and continually
pointedto weak implementationcapacity as a reasonwhy projects fail to meet
expectations. Yet there are continuous TA projects. Year after year, donors invest in
capacity building, with little sustained improvement inimplementation. Most recently,
the Bankhas funded a substantial TA project to support the reforrns under FMAC.

4.27     The Bankhasrelied too heavily on lack o f implementationcapacity as an
explanation for failure to implementreforms. The earmarks o fweak capacity maybe
evident, such as poor inter-ministerial coordination, weak databases andmonitoring.
However, the mainweaknesses inthe SAC2-supported areas o frevenue mobilization,
publishingthe budget, institutingcost recoverytariffs, public expenditure management
andstrategic privatizationsseemto have muchmoreto do withweak commitment to
reform at the level of the true policy-makers thanwith implementationcapacity.

Decentralization

4.28     As inmanyother countries, decentralization has addedmajor challenges to the
reformprogram, andthis i s an areawhere implementationcapacity does becomea real
issue. It has provendifficult for the provinces andthe central govemment to work
together for the success ofthe reform program. The 2002 PERnotedthat provincial
authorities regularly failed to remit taxes andduties collected at the provincial level to the
central treasury as requiredunder the law. Capacity issuesbecome more acute below the
provincial level. The failure to remit tax revenue impedes povertyreductioninthat
resources are not shifted fiom richto poor provinces.

Reluctance to Open the Country

4.29     Although it cannot be documented conclusively, it hasbecome clear to most
observers (as interviews revealed) that Lao PDR's leadershave a genuine concern about
preservingLao culture andvalues inthe face o fthe increased foreign influences that
come with openingthe economy. This concern i s reflected inthe slowness o f
privatization o f SOEs that would benefit fiom foreign capital, management, andtechnical
capacities. There i s also some concern that Thailand, whose economy is 75 times the size
o f that o f Lao PDR, couldbecome too influential inLao PDR. This concern may also be
partlyresponsible for the current low levelo fFDI,which increased after SAC2, buthas
declined since the Asian FinancialCrisis. Some civil service issuesrelate to a fear o f
domestic openness. A merit-based system could replace the still strong party-based
system. Firm, transparent civil service guidelines would make it more difficult for the
partyto exert control over staffingandpromotion, butthese guidelines haveyet to beput
into practice.

                                             14


Lao PDR Membership in Regional Economic Organizations

4.30     Lao PDRbecame a member oftwo important regional organizations in 1997:
The Association o f Southeast AsianNations (ASEAN) andthe ASEAN Free Trade Area
(AFTA). Fieldinterviews revealed that, once again, Lao decisionmakers were observing
the outside world as inputto their policies. Inthis instance, the observation has helped
steer policy toward greater openness. Lao leaders took a close look at the social
indicators o f Lao PDRcompared with those o ftheir fellow East Asia andPacific
members (Table 4.4). They could draw no other conclusionthanthat Lao PDRhad a lot
o f catching up to do with other ASEANcountries, andthey were not going to catch up
with a stop-and-go reformprogram. This conclusionmay explain the recent attention to
reforms.

Table 4.4: Selected Social Indicator Comparisonswith LaoPDR, 2002
Indicator                          Lao PDR        East Asia & Pacific  Low Income Countries
Life expect. at birth                 55                  69                   59
Infant mortality rate                  88                 33                   81
Adultilliteracy                       34                  13                   37
Primaryenroll. ratio                  113                 105                  95
Childmalnutrition (% under 5)         40                  15                   _ _
Access to improvedwater (%)           37                  76                   76
Source: World Bankdata.


Bank andBorrowerPerformance

Bank Performance

4.3 1 The Bankseized the opportunity to play an important role inthe Lao PDR reform
program, but didnot adjust well whenthe reformmomentumwaned. The project
completionreport andthe OED assessment in 1995 didnot rate Bank and Borrower
performance thoughthey described it somewhat critically. This report assesses Bank and
Borrower performance as satisfactorythrough the completionof SAC2 conditions,
though performance was on a downwardtrend at about the time o f SAC2 effectiveness
(Table 4.1). The Bank and the Borrower diddesign largelyappropriate next steps in
SAC2 following the SAC1 operation. The conditionswere met, even ifsome tranche
release conditions were vague andwithout clear quantitativetargets.

4.32      At the time of SAC2 effectiveness, the GOL's heightened concerns about
economic openness and control were evident. The Bank should have taken more into
account these concerns that ledto the reform stagnation and, insome cases, reversals. As
a result, the Bankdidnot catalyze much change inmost areas o f SAC2, including
mobilizingpublic resources, reformingthe civil service, or improving the budgeting
process. The Bank also proceeded with the programwithout sufficient coordination
between the ministries. Monitoring andevaluationremainweak.

4.33    The lack o f reform progress became particularly evident when the FMAC and the
PERfor 2002 coveredmucho fthe same groundas didSAC2. The Bankmighthave
made more explicit reference (inthe Bank's appraisal for FMAC) to the fact that Lao
PDRhadnot progressedreasonably betweenSAC2 andthe FMAC, andthentranslated

                                                15


this finding into riskmitigationmeasures for FMAC. Inconclusion, while Bank
performance was satisfactory through the completiono ftranche conditions andhas
improved inthe past couple o f years, Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory for the
overall period.

Borrower Performance

4.34    Borrowerperformance was arguably satisfactory during the project life, but
was also on a downward trend, andwas mainly unsatisfactory inthe public management
andresourcemobilizationareaso fSAC2 throughout the rest ofthe 1990s. The GOL
failed to maintain a stable macroeconomic framework after SAC3 close/cancellation, to
reform or reduce the size o f the civil service, or to introduce sufficient measuresto
improve revenue mobilization. Reform commitment faltered and coordination between
ministries was lacking. Hadthis re-assessmenttaken place in 1997, it mighthave been
possible to rate Borrower performance satisfactory, because SAC3 hadbeen launched,
andhadnot yet begunto unravel. Eventhen, however, the civil service, public resource
management andmobilization efforts hadnot progressedsignificantly. The GOLwent
seriously o f ftrack in 1998with its monetaryexpansion policy largely to finance a major
irrigation investment (para. 4.25), thus showing that the Borrower hadnot fully absorbed
the macroeconomic lessons learned from the reform program. Although, like Bank
performance, Borrowerperformance has improved inthe last two years, Borrower
performance is rated unsatisfactory overall.


5.      Conclusionsand Lessons

5.1     SAC2was a learning experience for the Lao authorities, who beganto understand
more deeply what a reformprogramwas. Unfortunately, policy-makers were not entirely
persuaded that the benefits o f continuingthe reform program outweighedthe costs, and
didnot follow throughina sustained manner onmost o fthe SAC2 initiatives, in
particular, civil service reform, publishing the budget, planningandbudgeting, and
mobilizingrevenue. The experience o fthe mid- and late 1990sdemonstrated that the
country would realize few benefits ifthey didnot sustain a commitment to reforms. GOL
now seems to bemore fullypersuaded o f the basic logic o f most o fthe SAC2 reforms. In
the past couple o f years, GOL hasbeen trylng to make up for lost time. Still, institutional
development andpolicy-makinghave lagged far behind where they could reasonably
expect to be, giventhe agendapursuedunder SAC2 more than 10 years ago.

5.2     Except for the first, the following lessons go beyondthose o fthe original OED
assessment:

        Civil service right-sizing needs to be established within an overall vision of
        what the citizens need and expect of the public sector. SAC2 mandated a large
        cut inthe civil service following an already large cut under SAC1 without really
        tying it to the responsibilities to be carried out bythe public sector or considering
        the context o f (later) decentralization.

                                      16


Governmentownershipof reformis criticalto success, and commitmentat
the technicalleveldoes notequalcommitmentat the decisionmakerlevel. In
SAC2, GOLcarried out a reasonablenext round o f reforms following SAC1,but
most were intermediate steps to achieving real outcomes. Subsequently, the GOL
didnot follow throughinthe areas ofcivil service reform, public expenditure
management (transparency, linkingexpenditures andrevenues andimproving
provisions for recurrent costs), andrevenue generation. Technical level officials
had anticipated continued progressive reforms, but it took time for the
decisionmakers to follow up.

Before attemptingto achievea betterperformingcivil service through
improvedincentivepackages,the resourcesto fundthose incentivesmustbe
secured. Civil service pay inLao PDRismuchtoo low, wellbelow subsistence.
The Bankhas repeatedly raised the importance o f incentives without first
ensuring that GOLwas generating the money to pay. Thus, there i s also a
sequencing issue. What looks like a stubborn failureto provide a decent pay scale
may be a more general failure to raise a reliable andadequate revenue stream.

Low implementationcapacityshouldnotbeblamedfor shortcomingsin
Bank-supportedoperations, when the problemis really one of government
commitment. Most o fthe reasonfor slow reformhasbeenthewavering
commitment o fthe policy-makers. However, Bank evaluations perennially point
to weak institutions andlow skills levels inGOLto explainpoor implementation
andoutcomes. After morethanadecade o fexperience inLao PDR, Bank
overestimates o fthe capabilities o f GOLcannot bejustified. Programs either
needto be tailored to the implementationcapacity inthe country, with more
challenge given to areaswith higher capacity, or they should focus more strongly
on capacity buildingefforts andbe continuedonly ifthere are positive sustained
results.
Externalworld events can shape the views ofpolicy-makers. The collapse of
communism mayhave reduced the enthusiasm among Lao policy-makers for
reform andopenness. The project files suggest that the Bankdidnot consider this
effect when designing SAC2. Another outside influence has hadthe opposite
effect. With its membership inASEAN andAFTA, Lao PDRtook fuller notice
o f how far it lagged insocial indicators. This awarenessseems to have rekindled
an interest inreform.

Monitoringand evaluationare criticalfor determiningthe outcomeand
impactof reforms. The absenceo fmonitoring data makes it very difficult to
measure the outcome o f some components o fthis project even 10years after its
completion.

                                            17                                Annex A


Basic Data Sheet

STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT          CREDIT I1(CREDIT2304-LA)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                       Appraisal     Actual or         Actual as % of
                                       estimate      current estimate  appraisal estimate
Totalproject costs                     40.0          41.91             105
Loanamount                             40.0          41.91             105
cofinancing                            0             0                 0
Cancellation                           0             0                 0

CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                          FY92                 FY93            FY94
Appraisalestimate (US$M)                   20.0                 40.0            40.0
Actual (US$M)                              20.7                 41.9            41.9
Actual as % ofestimate                     104                   105             105
Dateoffinal disbursement: 12/17/1993



                                               Planned                    Actual
InitiatingMemorandum                             5191                     6113191
Negotiations                                    8122191                   8122191
LetterofDevelopmentPolicy                        8191                      8191
BoardPresentation                               10/1/91                   1011I91
Signing                                        10110191                  10110191
Effectiveness                                   1/10/92                   1/2/92
Closing date                                   12131/93                  12131193



                             FY90    FY91      FY92        FY93       FY94        Total
Pre-appraisal-Appraisal       3.8    55.0                                         58.8
Appraisal                              1.o       0.3                                1.3
Negotiationsthrough Board                       12.7                              12.7
approval
Supervision                                     15.6        16.5      7.9         40.0
Other                                  3.2       7.5         0.1                   10.8
Total                         3.8    59.2       36.1        16.6                  123.6


                                                  19                                   Annex B




Objective                          Prior Action             First Tranche               Second Tranche
A. PrivatizeSOEs as fast as   consistent with the p dic interest
1.1 Establishaninstitutionto  Adopt Privatization   CreateDepartment o f SOEs
handle large privatizations   Decree (March 1990)   Supervision and
                                                    Privatization, with adequate
                                                    staffing.

                                                    Assignresponsibility to
                                                    central authority for
                                                    privatizing firms that have
                                                    over 30 employees (with
                                                    collaboration o fthe
                                                    Provincial authorities)
1.2 Ensuretransparency and    Formulate guidelines  Amendguidelines and
eficiency intransactions      and model contracts   model contracts for
                                                    privatization.
1.3 Use adequatestrategy      Privatize over 50     Adopt privatization           Satisfactory
and methods for privatization SOEs at ministry and  program                       implementation o f the
                              prefecture level                                    privatizationprogram

                                                    Adopt, every six months, a    Continuedselection of a
                                                    priority list o fenterprises  set o f SOEs for
                                                    for privatizationinthe next   privatizationevery six
                                                    12months                      months and offer for sale
                                                                                  or joint-venture, or
                                                                                  liquidate the first set of
                                                                                  large andmediumSOEs

                                                    Adopt guidelines for rapid    Auction 50 small SOEs
                                                    sales o f SOEs with lessthan
                                                    30 employees
2.  Improve SOEs' financial
performance andprepare
themfor privatization
2.1 Complement operational                                                        Establishholding or
autonomy with accountability                                                      similar institutionsat
                                                                                  central government for
                                                                                  financial supervision o f
                                                                                  SOEs

                                                                                  Beginplanning and
                                                                                  performance monitoring
                                                                                  for financial supervision
                                                                                  o f SOEs

                              PrepareDecree to      Adopt SOE Decree              EstablishBoards o f
                              reformrights and                                    Directors
                              responsibilities o f  Formulate model statutes of   Corporatize SOEs under
                              SOE managersand       SOEs                          central financial
                              the State (as owner)                                supervision according to
                                                                                  the Companies Law
                                                                                  finitiation)

Annex B                                           20


Annex B: PolicyMatrix for the SecondStructuralAdiustment Credit to Lao PDR (cont.)
                                                                 Y
Objective                         Prior Action               First Tranche           Second Tranche
2.2 Prevent wage escalation                          Adopt limits to
                                                     remuneration o f SOE
                                                     employees
3.   Develop an enabling
environment for market
operation
3.1 Provide for secure and    Adopt Contract Law     Approval o f Arbitration
enforceable contracts                                Decree

                              Adopt Labor Law        Effectiveness o f
                                                     ImplementationDecreeto
                                                     the Labor Law
                              Adopt Property Law

                             Returnofconfiscated     Passingo f Secured         Effectiveness o f
                              properties to previous Transactions Law           legislationontransfer and
                              owners                                            mortgaging o f land

                                                     Effectiveness o f Laws on  Establishment o f
                                                     Checks and Billsof         structuresand capabilities
                                                     Exchange                   for trading o f securities.

3.2 Set framework for                                                           Effectivenessof
company creation and                                                            EnterpriseLaw and
termination                                                                     ImplementationDecrees

                                                                                Effectiveness o f
                                                                                legislationonbankruptcy
3.3ktroduce appropriate      Adopt Accounting        Effectiveness o f          Effectiveness o f Decree
enterprise accounting        Law                     ImplementationDecree to    onthe Accounting and
                                                     the Accounting Law         AuditingProfessions
3.4 Facilitate International                                                    Review the licensing
Trade                                                                           system o f imports and the
                                                                                export promotiono f
                                                                                framework
4.  Promote Foreign
Investment
4.1 Set up the legal         Adopt a Foreign         Prepareamendments to the   Promulgationo fthe
fiamework                    Investment Law         F.I.Law for simplification, amendments
                                                     deregulation and
                                                     harmonization with other
                                                     laws
4.2 Develop promotion        Establishment o fF.I.   Sever all GOL ownership    Create and train F.I.
systems                      Management              and staffinglinks with     PromotionUnito fMEER
                             Committee               LPCO
4.3 Remove barriers to       Over 100 F.1.s          Develop interagency        Remove barriers to F.I.
foreign investment           approved                mechanismfor removal of
                                                     barriers to F.I.

                                                 21                                Annex B




Objective                         Prior Action            First Tranche    . I     Second Tranche
B. MobilizePublicResource
1. Simpler and more          Reduce number o f
buoyant general tax system   sales tax rates

                             Introduce excise
                             taxes

                             Introduce minimum
                             comorate tax
2. Develop local                                                              Initialreview o f future
government's own resources                                                    local government
                                                                              financing systems,
                                                                              including scope for local
                                                                              taxes
3.  Collect economic rent on                       Review o f wood taxes      Establishment of neutral
national resources                                                            wood taxes
4. Improve cost recovery     Increase domestic     Adjust domesticelectricity Maintainexport price
                             telecomtariffs by     priceby40% (indollar
                             80%                   terms)

                                                                              Maintain domestic price
                                                                              inlinewithself-financing
                                                                              needs

                                                                              Increase invehicle
                                                                              licenses
5.  Obtainproper return on   Remuneration o f      Establish dividends from   Collection o f interest on
government fmancial assets   government FC         SOEs                       government loans
                             dmosits
6. Improve revenue           Decree creating       Implement decree
collection                   National Tax and
                             customs
                             Administration

1. StrengthenBudget
Discipline
1.1 Put all government       Decisioninprinciple   Adopt a new budget system  Publication o f 1993
revenues into a single       to centralize public                             budget following budget
national budgeting           finances                                         legislation incurrent
Framework                                                                     balance

                                                   Centralize budget          Reorganize Budget
                                                   prerogatives               Administration

Annex B                                         22


Annex B: PolicyMatril :or the Second Stri :tural Adjustment Cred ;to Lao PDR (cont.)
Objective                         Prior Action            First Tranche             Second Tranche
Control budget execution and                                                   Adopt public accounting
ensure its transparency                                                        legislation

                                                                               Establish control over
                                                                               budgetcommitments

                                                                               Create Public Accounting
                                                                               and Treasury Department

                                                                               Centralize Treasury
                                                                               operations

                                                                               Adopt procurement
                                                                               regulations
2. Restore a systematic                           Adopt Five-Year              Annual update
approach to development                           Investment Program
expenditure                                       satisfactory to IDA.

                                                  Vettingauthority onall
                                                  foreign financed projects to
                                                  MEPF
3. Develop a more cost
effective government
3.1 Reduce the civil service  Reducecivil service Appoint a Ministry-level     Create Civil Service
                              by 19%              steering committee for civil Department
                                                  service and administrative
                                                  reforms.                     Conduct census o fthe
                                                                               civil service

                                                                               Adopt programto
                                                                               reduce civil service by at
                                                                               least 25%
3.2 Introduce more attractive                                                  Revise staffrules
Employment conditions for                                                      (reduced coverage, career
:ivil servants                                                                 development)

                                                                               Define wage policybased
                                                                               on macro indicators and
                                                                               adopt new wage scales
3.3 Reduce the sue o fthe                                                      Adopt organizational
idministration                                                                 guidelines

                                                                               Restructure central
                                                                               agencies

1.4 Make local government                         Restore single national      Delegate management
tccountable                                       public finance framework     autonomy to local
                                                                               administration

                                                                               Initial review o f future
                                                                               status o f local
                                                                               governments

                                              23                            Annex C


Annex C: List of PersonsInterviewed

Lao PDR

H.E. MadameKhemphengPholsena, Vice Presidentof Committeefor Planningand
         Cooperation-CPC
Mrs.Viengthong Siphandone, DirectorGeneral, ExternalFinance RelationsDepartment,
         MinistryofFinance
M r s . Nouhak Nalukhot, Director General, Tax Department, Ministryo f Finance
Mr.KhammounViphongxay, DirectorGeneral, Public Administration andCivil Service,
         Prime Minister's Office. [actually his deputy]
Mr.SomphoneDeth-Oudom, DirectorGeneral-Nam PapaLao
Mr.KhamphoutSithilath, DeputyDirectorGeneralEconomicResearchDepartment,
         Banko fLao PDR
Mr. Khamsoun Sundara, Director General-Foreign Currency Department, Banko fLao
         PDR
Mr.SuneDethvongsa, DeputyDirector GeneralBusinessPromotionCommittee, Prime
         Minister's Office
Mrs.KhamphayVithasay, DeputyDirector ofBudgetDepartment, MOF

The WorldBank

Mr.Enrique Crousillat, Resident Representative
Mr.BernardFunck, Task Manager SAC1 andSAC2
Mr.StefanKoeberle, Task Manager SAC3
Mr.KlausLorch, InstitutionalSpecialist SAC2
Mr.KaziMatin, SecondTask ManagerFMAC
Ms.LindaSchneider, CountryLiaisonOfficer LaoPDR
Mr.Mark Sundberg, ICR author SAC2

InternationalMonetaryFund

Mr.Wayne Kamard, IMFRepresentative 1997-2000
Mr.Eric Sedgewick, IMFRepresentative2000-2003
Mr. PaulWade, IMFRepresentative 1995-1 997

UNDP

Mr.FinnReske-Nielsen, U.N.ResidentRepresentative, UNDP


                                              25                                Annex D


Annex D: Review of Previous Evaluations of Progress in SAC2 Reform Areas

1995 OED Assessment for SAC2

 1.      Thebottom line o fthe first assessmentby OED in 1995 (OED assessment) was
that the outcome o f SAC2, which was intended to consolidate the reforms under SACl,
while rated satisfactory, fell below expectations. There was a general lack o ffollow-
through, when policies were oftennot matchedwith changes inregulations and
procedures, The assessments o fthe major areas that SAC2 addressedare summarized
below. There were very few quantitative targets inSAC2, which makes assessmentmore
difficult. This report concurs with the original OED findings inmost instances, except
where noted.

2.       SOEs. Onlythe management structure of SOEswas changed andleasing
arrangements were maintained, rather thanoutright divestiture. [Note: There are still no
conclusive data on the profitability o f SOEs to indicate whether SAC2 coincidedwith an
improvement inSOE financial performance. While the vast majority of SOEs hasbeen
privatized, there are no data withwhich to assess how much o f the value o f SOE's has
beenprivatized.]

3.       Civilsewice reform. A Department o fPublic Administration (DPA) was set up to
draft and administer policies for the civil service, butplanned staff reductions didnot
take place, which, inturn, was related to the delay inconducting a census o f employees
andindevisingmechanisms for theretrenchment program. The GOLdidadopt aplanto
reduce the civil service by 25 percent, which was a condition for tranche release [but
GOLdidnot actuallycarry out that plan],

4.      Institutional developmentimpact. The failure to achieve meaningfulinstitutional
development was the weakest aspect o f SAC2. This has contributedto the slow progress
o fprivatization, civil service reform, andprivate sector development.

5.       Sustainability. There i s an absence o f obvious adverse social impacts and care i s
beingtaken to avoid undesirable effects onthe physical and cultural environment.
External support, early economic successesand government commitment to reform call
for a likely rating for sustainability. [At the time, withthe limited information available,
a likely ratingmayhave beenjustified, particularly after the generallypositive experience
with SACl.]

6.       The OED assessment concluded that SAC2 yielded substantial and sustainable
benefits, especially interms o fmacroeconomic stabilization andturnaround o fthe
economy. SACl achieved all o f its targets, whereas SAC 11fell short o fmeeting its
relatively more ambitious objectives. For institutionaldevelopment, the program's
impact, though positive, was found to be modest. Clearly, the OED assessment
overreached when it maintainedthat the macro-stabilizationwas sustainable. Inthe first
instance, macro-stabilizationmay be underminedby any of a number o f uncontrollable
factors, such as political changes, AsianFinancialCrisis contagion, andso on. Inthe
case o f Lao PDR, within three years o fthe OED assessment, the macro-economy was
dissolvinginto highinflation, and foreign aid and investmentwere evaporating. Thus,

Annex D                                       26


the macro-stabilization benefits, while perhaps substantial for a few years, provednot to
be sustainable, because the principles o f sound macroeconomic management had not
been engrained inGOL's policy-making.

7.       The OED assessmentnotedthat sustainability would depend onhow "the system"
reacts to the stresseso f increased foreign influences andtheir possible threat to Lao PDR
culture andvalues, as well as to regional growth disparities andresulting ethnic tensions.
This has certainlybeenan ongoing concern for the Lao PDR authorities who have
allowed the pace o freforms to be slowedbythese factors.

8.       Ownership at the top. There was good collaborationby the Bank, other donors
andthe government inidentifylngthe essential components oftheprogram. However,
there were several problems: (i)   lack o fconsensus and coordinationbetween ministries
andlevels ofbureaucracy; (ii)    excessive optimism by the Bank staffregardingthe GOL's
willingness and administrative capacity to implement complex public enterprise and civil
service reforms; and (iii)  inadequate assessmento f the need for andprovisiono ftechnical
assistance.

9.       The OED assessment stressed the importance o f increasing ownership at the
lower bureaucratic levels, includingshiftingpower from the Partypolitburo, which was
andisthe sole authority for reformmeasures. Itraisedthe importance ofthe public
sector inprovidingbasic infrastructure services, including a supportinglegal framework,
to support the private sector. Further, OED cited environmentalconcerns about the rapid
rate o f deforestation and its consequences for erosion, agricultural productivity and
rainfallpatterns. The OED assessment statedthat these problems hadto be addressedin
the context o f a landuse policy ifthe transition programwere to be sustained.

10.      Capacity and reform commitment. The OED assessmentwas critical about the
Bank's overestimate o fthe government's capacity to implement reforms, the
coordination across ministries andthe inadequacy oftechnical assistance. Inparticular,
the Bankoverestimated the government's willingness to privatize rapidly andto reform
the civil service. There was insufficient consensus buildingacross agencies and
inadequate guidance for actions anddecisions. OED notedthat, apparently, there was a
general failure to translate that expression o f commitment at the highest level into
ownership o f the program at agency level.

11.      Management ofpublic resources. The OED assessment stated that resource
mobilizationhadimproved, but observed that tax collection machinery was ineffective
due to staff shortages. No data were presented supportingthe contentionthat revenue
had increased. The OED assessment also statedthat public sector planningand
management improved, but didnot present any data to support the conclusion. Itreferred
only to some restructuringand consolidation, butprovidedno clear measurement of a
"leaner more efficient" organization.

12.      The OED assessment was based on a missionto Lao PDRinDecember 1994,
only one year after SAC2 closed. The project completionreport hadnot yet been
finished. As stated, SAC2 was by nature a program o f intermediate reforms with such
reforms as establishing a legal fi-amework for private sector operations, taking a census of

                                              27                                Annex D


the civil service, adopting a programto reduce the civil service by 25 percent, and
creating a department for SOE supervision. The success o f SAC2 would be tested by
whether the GOL took the next steps, such as actual privatizations, eliminating SOE
losses, actually reducingthe size o fthe civil service by 25 percent, and so on. Inthe
short time-frame allowed for the OED assessment, it was impossible to determine
whether these outcomes were indeed realized.

Project CompletionReport

13.     The project completion report statedthat the SAC2-supported programwas
intended to strengthen fiscal management through improved revenue andexpenditure
management and enable the government to use public resources more effectively. The
PCR criticized the design o f SAC2 for not foreseeing the risks o fpoliticalresistanceto
the publication o f the budget, or the constraint to institutionbuildingposedby Lao PDR's
skills shortage. The PCR concluded that a fuller recognitiono f these risks mighthave led
to a less ambitious programandmore effort upfront inconsensusbuilding, including a
longer project preparationperiod. The OED transmittal note to the Board for the project
completionreport ratedthe outcome satisfactory, the sustainabilitylikely, andthe
institutionaldevelopment impact modest.

14.     The PCRcited three lessons from the experience o f SAC2: (i) inter-
                                                                         greater
ministerial coordination was needed andcould have beenprovidedby an inter-ministerial
working group, which would have conducted more consensusbuildingto achieve
govemment ownership andcommitment; (ii)        fullaccount o fhumancapacityconstraints
mustbetaken, particularly ina country withweak institutions; and(iii)     adequate and
appropriate TA shouldbeinplace before a structural adjustment operationbecomes
effective. The PCR stated that these recommendations wouldhave taken significantly
more time to implement, but there would have been a greater likelihood o f lastingimpact.

1996Country Strategy

15.     The 1996-99 country strategy focused on several areas relevant to SAC2. In
macroeconomic reform the country strategy cited the serious concern over the low level
o frecurrent expenditure andthe "very low level o frevenue collection." SAC3 was
designed to address these problems. The enforcement o fthe legal framework for
enabling growthwas also viewed as weak because of the lack of implementing
regulations and legal institutions, which confirms the view o fthe 1995 OED assessment.
The interest o fthe IFC inthe NT2 hydropower project was also mentionedas a way o f
catalyzingthe participationo f foreign sponsors and lenders.

16.     Incivilservice, thecountrystrategysupportedprogramcalledfor"civil service
wages sharplyincreased together with retrenchment o f 5 percent." SOE enterprise
subsidies were to be eliminated. [Note: Six years later the main focus ofthe FMAC was
banklendingto SOEs andthe resultingnon-performing loans, which remainthe main
cause o finsolvency inthe financial sector.] Central state enterprises were to be reduced
from 600 to 64 (they numbered about 150 in2003). Inpublic sector management, a
budget law andnew public accounting systemwere to be adopted, and a five-year, rolling
public Investment Program was to beproduced. Inthe energy sector, the CAS called for

Annex D                                       28


price adjustments through substantial tariff increases. Clearly, the CAS repeated mucho f
what SAC2 had addressed.

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 1999-2001 (March 30,1999)

17.     The 1999-2001 CAS cited strong andweak points regardingperformance under
the previous CAS relatingto the SAC2-supported reform areas. On the positive side, Lao
PDRachieved good growth, reorientedsocial expenditures towards povertyreduction
targets, andmade progress inSOE reforms. Onthe negative side, the report cited weak
macroeconomic management, which had ledto highinflation, weak public sector
management, weak management capacity at the Central Bankto manage credit creation,
and generally limited implementationcapacity. The 1999-2001 CAS focused on the
restoration o fmacro-stability, which had disintegrated with the excessive monetary
expansion, compoundedbythe AsianFinancialCrisis. The CAS also aimed at
strengthening state-owned commercial banksby eliminating subsidized and directed
credits to SOEs, which were leadingto highrates o fnon-performing loans. Inthe energy
sector, the CAS included establishing an "adequate" power tariff andthe NT2project. In
private sector development, the CAS called for the development andadoption o f a
medium term national legal framework, promotiono fFDI(which had collapsed), and
privatization o f all non-strategic and, eventually, strategic SOEs. Thus, as with the
previous CAS, many ofthe measures from the program matrix o fthe 1999-2001 CAS
echoedwhat hadbeenpreviously attempted under SAC2.

