Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20195-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.6 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A SOCLkL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF A
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM
December 1, 2000
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = FCFA
FCFA 1 = US$0.00 14
US$1 = FCFA 697
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADM       Agence de D&veloppement Municipal              MEF        Ministere de l'Economie et des Finance
AfDB      African Development Bank                       MFSN       Ministere de la Famille el de la Solidarite Nationale
AGETIP   Agence d'Execution des Travaux dI'ntereit Public  MFSU     Micro-Finance Support Unit
contre le Sous-Emploi                          MIS       Management Information System
APL       Adaptable Program Lending                      NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                    NPPA       National Program for Poverty Alleviation
CBOs      Community-Based Organizations                  NRIP       National Rural Infrastructure Program
CDSU      Community Development Support Unit             OCC        Orientation and Coordination Committee
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency       PA        Project Account
CMTS      Coordination and Monitoring Technical Secretariat   PAGD  Management Development Project
CNLP      Coordination Nationale de Lutte contre la Pauvrete   PANC  Poverty Alleviation National Coordination
CSFU      Central Social Fund Unit                       PDEF       Plan Decennal de l'Education ei de la Formation
DDI       Direction de la Dette et de l'Investissement   PDRHI    Projet de Developpement des Ressources Humaines I
DPS       Direction de la Prevision et de la Statistique  PDIS      Plan de Developpemnt Integre de la Sante
DP        Department of Planning                         PFI        Participating Financial Institution
ECD       Early Childhood Development                    PLP        Programme de Lutte contre la Pauvrete
ESAM      Enquetes Sdnigalaises aupres des Manages       PPA        Participatory Poverty Assessment
FAU       Financial and Administrative Unit              RFMU       Regional Fund Management Unit
FCFA      Franc de la Communaute Financiere de l'Afrique  SA        Special Account
GMT       Grassroot Management Training                  SCAs       Saving and Credit Associations
HBS       Household Budget Survey                        SDF        Social Development Fund
IDA       Intemational Development Association           SDFP       Social Development Fund Program
IEC       Information Education and Communication         SDC       Social Development Credit
IGA       Income-Generating Activities                    SDG       Social Development Grant
IMEU      Information Monitoring and Evaluation Unit      SFMA      Social Fund Management Association
IRCD      International Research Center for Development   SFMU      Social Fund Management Unit
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative          UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
MB        Managing Board                                  WB        World Bank
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    John McIntire
Sector Manager:    Nicholas R. Bumett
Task Team Leader:    Alassane Diawara



SENEGAL
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                  3
2. Project development objective                                                        3
3. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                    7
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       10
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
.4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            21
2. Financial                                                                           23
3. Technical                                                                           24
4. Institutional                                                                       24
5. Environmental                                                                       28
6. Social                                                                              30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  34
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      34
2. Critical risks                                                                      34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      35



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          35
2. Other                                                                             36
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        36
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       58
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           59
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             64
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          81
Annex I 1: Summary Findings of Social Assessment                                       83
Annex 12: Mainstreaming Gender into the Social Development Fund                        91
Annex 13: Note on Strategy for Poverty Targeting in the Social Development Fund Project  102
Annex 14: Institutional Arrangements                                                  111
Annex 15: Financial Management Arrangements                                           116
Annex 16: Improving Access to Micro-Finance                                           123
Annex 17: Grassroot Management Training (GMT) for CBO's Capacity Building             130
MAP(S)
IBRD 31219



SENEGAL
Social Development Fund Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC14
Date: December 1, 2000                            Team Leader: Alassane Diawara
Country Manager/Director: John McIntire           Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Bumett
Project ID: P041566                               Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period          Borrower
i_______  ______________   ._____ _ - __ ._ _;;(Bank     FY )
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       USS m        Date        Date
APL 1       30.00    64.5    16.52       46.52     03/31/2001   12/31/2004 Ministry of Economy and
Loan/                                                                Finance, Senegal
Credit
APL 2       30.00    50.0   30.00        60.00     12/31/2004   12/31/2007 Ministry of Economy and
Loan/                                                                Finance, Senegal
Credit__                 _ _ _ ___                           _ _  _ _
APL 3       25.00    45.5    30.00       55.00     12/31/2007   12/31/2011 Ministry of Economy and
Loan/                                                                Finance, Senegal
Credit
API-4
Loan!
Credit____                    __
iTotal       85.00  1        76.52       161.52     
Project Financing Data
[ I Loan    [XI Credit    [I Grant      [I Guarantee     [ Other:
For LoanstCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 30.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee:                                        Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        2.17           1.45          3.62
IDA                                                            17.80          12.20         30.00
OTHER SOURCES                                                   7.74           5.16         12.90
Total:                                                         27.71          18.81         46.52
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FAMILY AFFAIRS AND NATIONAL SOLIDARITY



Address: Building Administratif, 6eme etage
Contact Person: Aminata Tall
Tel: 221 822 36 94                Fax: 221 823 66 73                 Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Association pour le Fonds de Developpement Social (AFDS)
Address: Building Administratif 6eme etage, Dakar, Senegal
Contact Person: Aminata Tall
Tel: 221 822 36 94              Fax: 221 823 66 73                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2001       2002        2003      2004
Annual    2.22        11.04      10.78       5.96
Cumulative    2.22       13.26      24.04       30.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS AM. PAD F-l. R"l M . 2W
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The program will support, as part of the core Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the capacity of poor
communities to effectively manage their own development resources and economic and social services with
equal participation of vulnerable groups, which will be gender inclusive. The program will support four
main strategic objectives of the Govemment of Senegal: (i) increasing access to basic social services
through direct and indirect poverty reduction interventions; (ii) increasing access of poorer groups of the
population to micro-finance products and services via existing participating financial institutions (PFIs)
and savings and credit associations (SCAs); (iii) capacity building of community-based organizations
(CBOs), PFIs and SCAs, and (iv) capacity building of Government for poverty strategy management,
monitoring and evaluation.
The proposed program will cover a total of 10 years. It will be carried out in three phases. The aim of this
approach is to start activities on a small scale and progressively expand them by fine-tuning mechanisms
and tools of intervention. The first phase of 3 years specifically aims at setting up and operationalizing
the structures needed for the project to take off, sensitizing the beneficiaries about the project, testing the
service delivery strategy at the central and local levels through small-scale operations designed to ease out
the leaming process and, based on lessons leamed, start the second phase.
Phase 2 is planned for 3 years and aims at scaling up implementation of the project components in order
to reach all targeted communities within the program, as well as harmonizing objectives and procedures of
all donor-financed social funds operating in the country.
Based on the successes of the second phase, the third phase (4 years) will be implemented with the view to
fine-tuning the operational mechanism and mainstreaming the strategy nationwide to include other
operations, while ensuring long-term sustainability of the mechanism.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to achieve the effective use of social funds in priority development
areas by the poorest test communities in the poorest regions of Senegal with participation of vulnerable
groups and women. The Government of Senegal has developed a framework for poverty reduction in
the form of the Programme de Lutte Contre la Pauvrete (PLP). The Social Development Fund (SDF)
Program has been formulated within this framework to ensure that its efforts to reduce poverty in
Senegal are part of the country's long-term poverty strategy and will complement several other WB and
donor-assisted projects aimed at poverty alleviation, with a view to preventing duplication and risks of
contradiction. The project will build upon the positive experiences gained through: (i) long-term past
e.xperience of CBOs' development through Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) support; and (ii)
extensive experience of PFIs and SCAs in providing finances and services to weaker socio-economic
groups of the Senegalese society.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Outcome Indicators
*   75 % of the 300 test communities making development decisions based on participatory development
plans responsive to the needs of the poorest
*   at least, 50 % of vulnerable groups and families within the test commnunities are aware of the basic
- 3 -



processes of sub-projects' implementation and are satisfied with the outcomes
Output Indicators
*    300 test communities requesting funds for sub-projects complying with Social Fund criteria
*    50 % of vulnerable groups receiving TA under the project meet the micro-finance institutions' credit
criteria
*    75 % of projects formulated and implemented by the CBOs (trained under the project) reflect criteria
of sound design and are implemented according to the strategy of the Social Fund
*   90 % of the test communities are satisfied with the services of the SDF and feel it is equitable and
transparent
*   90 % of vulnerable members of eligible test communities are aware of and understand the procedures
of the projects financed by the Social Fund
*   Communities are targeted by the Social Fund based on data provided by Poverty Monitoring
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDAJR98-2         Date of latest CAS discussion: 0 1/29/98
The over-arching objective of the Senegal CAS is to reduce the incidence of poverty and create gainful
employment, especially for youth and women. This is to be addressed through a two-pronged strategy: (i)
supporting policies and programs aimed at more rapid and sustained growth; and (ii) ensuring the social
sustainability of the program. The proposed operation is meant to provide direct support for poverty
alleviation activities, especially focused on the social and economic development of women and youth. The
project will specifically contribute to the CAS objective by: (i) reinforcing CBOs and civil society groups in
terns of managerial and operational capacity with equal participation of vulnerable groups, and
specifically help women and youth to access basic social services and infrastructure, (ii) reinforcing PFIs
and SCAs in terms of management capacity and their ability to offer financial products and services
attractive and accessible to poorer borrowers, particularly women of the poorest groups, and (iii) improving
the govemment's monitoring and analysis of poverty trends in order to increase the efficiency of
decision-making in this sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
According to the 1991-92 Priority Survey, about 33% of Senegalese households live below the poverty
line. In most countries, including Senegal, poverty is a rural phenomenon with over 80% of poor
households found in rural areas. Dakar, however, houses 21% of the total Senegalese population. Thus,
the capital city has a significant proportion of poor households (12%), most of them living in peri-urban
areas (See Senegal: An Assessment ofLiving Conditions, 1995 World Bank). Results from the 1994-95
poverty survey indicate a rise in the overall poverty rate. Despite some recent improvement in
macroeconomic performance, poverty indicators (level of household expenditure) remain high, and there is
no clear indication of a trickle-down effect of recent growth to benefit the poor.
Overall, progress remains fragile and social and economic indicators are still poor by the standards of
countries with similar levels of income (Senegal's estimated GNP per capita for 1998 was US$550).
Despite the implementation of Government programs to improve the condition of women since the early
1 960s, women remain a particularly vulnerable group. The illiteracy rate is 66% for women (compared to
47% for men), and the female drop-out rate is high due to women's household task requirements, early
- 4 -



marriage, and pregnancies (median marriage age for women is 16.6 years and median age at birth of first
child is 19.4 years). The nutrition of women is poor, and 42% of women between ages 15-49 years are
considered anemic. Women do not have easy access to land and agricultural services, and their access to
credit is predominantly limited to credit clubs (tontines) which permit them only very small loans.
A second highly vulnerable group is the untrained or insufficiently trained youth. The estimated
unemployment rate among people 20-34 in urban centers has reached 40%, compared to 29% for the total
population. Primary school enrollment is only 68% and the dropout rate is 75%. About 23% of children
under five suffer from malnutrition. Adolescents and young adults are particularly vulnerable to
HIV-AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. Finally, the increase in urban youth criminality and
child mendacity are rising concems for Senegalese authorities.
The Govermment's overall development strategy is articulated in the Ninth Socio-Economic Development
Plan (1998-2001), adopted by the National Assembly in February 1997 after extensive consultations. The
Plan's objective is highly focused on poverty reduction and human development (out of its 10 strategic
axes, at least 7 involve human development activities). In addition, the Government formulated a Five-year
Action Plan for Women and Development. The Action Plan highlighted four areas to improve the status of
women in Senegal: (i) access to financing, income generation, and poverty alleviation; (ii) capacity
building of women's organizations; (iii) reproductive health and family planning; and (iv) women's rights
and empowerment. In December 1997, the Government of Senegal developed a comprehensive Poverty
Reduction Program with the inputs of several donors, (including UNDP, Canada, and Germany). The
objectives of the Program are to: (1) improve the resource base of poor categories through economic and
community development activities; (2) improve the quality and quantity of social infrastructure and social
services in poverty areas and groups; (3) build monitoring capacity of institutions in charge of poverty
reduction policy as well as the capacity of organizations of the poor themselves. The basis of the strategy
to be implemented will be a participatory approach and partnership. Thus, the proposed project will seek
to contribute to the implementation of the three main axes of this poverty reduction strategy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Low level of income and lack of access to economic opportunities, particularly among women and
youth: The lack of access to development resources and services, including financial services and inputs
for production purposes, contribute to the low economic status of poor communities. They also have
distorted information on economic opportunities and are disconnected from the local and national economy.
The project will contribute to raising income of poor communities and vulnerable groups (women and
youth) through the following activities: (a) small matching grants for time-saving equipment (grinding
rnills) for women's tasks, thereby improving their health status; (b) provision of financial services through
existing PFIs; (c) linking existing traditional saving and credit associations (SCAs) to micro-finance
institutions (caisses mutalistes and other finance institutions);
(d) supporting SCAs through financing of fixed costs, start-up and management training; and (e) training to
improve the operations and maintenance of productive equipment and to improve technical skills for
productive activities. The project will provide economic information and sources of funding to beneficiary
communities and develop their institutional capacity for networking and partnership through integrated
income-generating activities (IGAs).
A sub-projects menu will be developed through participatory discussions with the targeted populations.
Links will be established with existing projects financed by other donors, and the communities will be
encouraged to consider small projects which will better allow them to benefit from the larger formal sector
-5 -



projects. The vulnerable group participants will choose a project, develop a plan and proposal, submit the
plan to the SFMU and, if approved, receive grant money to implement the project. The list of projects
could include proposals covering a wide range of activities in many sectors, such as those below:
Health status of women and children: The poor nutritional status of women and of children under five
contributes significantly to the high maternal mortality (510 deaths per 100,000) and infant deaths (60 per
1,000 live births) rates. Malnutrition and anemia remain a serious problem among children, pregnant
women and lactating mothers.
Two Bank-financed projects support the Govemment's efforts in the area of Early Childhood Development
(ECD): the ongoing Community Nutrition Project and the proposed Education Quality for All Project-
Where these projects have interventions in the Social Fund selected regions, complementary activities, such
as construction/rehabilitation and equipment of community kindergartens in test communities and
pre-school centers, community management training, and software sub-projects linked to the health and
nutrition of lactating mothers and their children, will be included in the SDF activities "menu."
Two other Bank-assisted projects support the Government's efforts towards better health and nutrition: the
Integrated Health Sector Development Program and the School-Health/Nutrition Component of the
proposed Quality Education for All Project. Where these projects have interventions in selected regions
covered by the Social Fund, SDF promoters and facilitators will be encouraged to remind communities
systematically of HIV/AIDS activities as it is a sensitive, but vital issue.
Women's and Girls' Participation in Economic and Social Development is Low: Strategies suggested
to communities for improving women's/girls' status will include: (1) interventions that reduce demands on
women's time (closer sources of water and fuel-saving technology); (2) providing school-based child care
centers; (3) organizing IEC campaigns to encourage girls' education, the IEC campaigns will take into
account women's time constraint; often, informnation is available, but women do not obtain it. This is partly
because the timing of the information flow conflicts with women's work: they are either out in the field
working, or completely unaware of the information being provided. Measures will be taken to address
these problems; (4) a gender-sensitive school environment (e.g. separate latrines, gender-sensitive teachers,
reduction of domestic chores for girls in schools and equal participation for boys and girls in classrooms);
and providing training to women for literacy and income generation.
Low access to basic infrastructure and services: Basic infrastructure and services are usually not
accessible to poor communities. Nevertheless, when they exist they do not function well or are
ill-maintained because of lack of ownership by the community. The project will include two types of
infrastructure in its "menu," depending on the zone. In areas where the National Rural Infrastructure
Project (NRIP) is active, the project menu will include ECD infrastructure (pre-schools and kindergartens).
In other poverty-stricken areas, the menu of eligible sub-projects will include village access roads, small
bridges, health posts, schools, latrines, and water points. Cost-recovery schemes and beneficiary
contributions will be key elements in the success of such activities.
Weak institutional capacities of Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) owned by the poor:
Although Senegal is characterized by a dynamic associative sector, individual benefit (particularly in
remote rural villages) from associations is not significant, thereby threatening the continued success of the
movement. Indigenous associations and groups have developed community-based organizations as a
solution for confronting economic, social, and political challenges. However, without access to economic
opportunities, these organizations cannot benefit from institutional resources. The consequence is that
-6 -



CBOs have had difficulty in: (i) identifying projects which correctly correspond to their needs; (ii)
fornulating and managing projects;
(iii) getting the information necessary to design and monitor contracts for basic social services and
infrastructure projects implemented by Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) or the local private
sector; (iv) monitoring and analyzing economic, social, and poverty data; and (v) building partnerships with
other CBOs, NGOs, local government, and other decentralized structures to ensure that these institutions
respond to the needs of the poor.
The project will attempt to strengthen the capacity of the associations so that they might better assist
individuals by providing safety nets through capacity building training. It will also reinforce the capacity
of selected CBOs to focus their activities on women and youth, especially in the field of project design for
software activities such as training poor in HIVIAIDS, nutrition, and ECD activities. The project will also
support: (i) capacity-building activities in resource management within savings and credit associations and
health "mutuelles " active at the grassroots level; (ii) promotion of information flow into communities and
their organizations (care must be taken to ensure that the information flow is simple and easily
understandable by the poor; if necessary, information should be provided in local languages); (iii) delivery
of literacy and post-alpha programs; (iv) training of CBO leaders in organization management and project
formulation and implementation; (v) building of databases on contractors and services provided at the
community level; (vi) definition of procedures and systems for contracting; and (vii) monitoring by CBOs
of projects executed by contractors, including, NGOs.
Weak capacity to monitor and analyze poverty data and insufficient coordination of efforts: Poverty
monitoring, strategic communication, and technical assistance to users and producers of social (statistical)
data is a real need in Senegal. One of the most immediate needs in the social sector is a strong up-to-date
database of the key indicators of poverty, based on continuing and participatory poverty assessments
(PPAs). To address this need, the Government is preparing a strategy for an integrated approach for data
collection and analysis, based on the existing structures at the regional, departmental, and local levels. A
key aspect of this strategy is the development of a complete economic and social data baseline with output
indicators reflecting an efficient information and monitoring system. The project will support the
implementation of this strategy and will provide capacity building at the central level. In addition, the
project will contribute to the financing of Household Budget Surveys and two light surveys which will
provide data to monitor poverty levels during the life span of the project. Qualitative surveys and PPAs
will complement the quantitative data collection and analysis process. Ultimately, the project will help the
Govemment devise long-term strategies to sustain this effort by earmarking funds for poverty monitoring
and analysis nationwide.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Phase 1: Start-up and concentration in poverty-stricken zones
This phase will be limited to: (i) setting up the institutional system in five regions; (ii) selecting a
limited number of communities to test and experiment with ways of working with the most vulnerable
groups of poor communities (poor women and youth in poverty-stricken zones) so they will leam to
manage their own development resources effectively and economic and social services; (iii) testing tools
and procedures for the design and implementation of the sub-projects in selected communities;
(iv) monitoring and evaluating the ongoing test projects; (v) consolidating and capitalizing on lessons
learned for scaling up of activities; (vi) building capacities for communities with a view to broadening
prcject impact; and (vii) development and implementation of a simple and practical Management
Information System (MIS).
-7 -



The above strategy applies to all project components. For example, with regard to the Basic
Community Infrastructure sub-component, this phase will: (i) test the community-based
sub-contracting mechanism for the provision of infrastructure in a limited number of demand-driven
sub-projects; (ii) closely monitor and evaluate these pilot interventions; iii) prepare to scale up the
approach in other IDA-assisted projects. With regard to component 4, this phase will support the deve
lopment of a comprehensive baseline poverty data and establishment of a permanent monitoring system.
Performance Triggers conditioning the transition to phase 2:
* Implementation tools are performing according to established standards
- SDF structures are set up and operational: Social Fund Management Unit (SFMU), the
Community Development Support Unit (CDSU), the Micro-Finance Support Unit (MFSU), the
Information Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (IMEU), the Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU)
and the Regional Fund Management Unit (RFMU);
- the micro-finance system is operational in 5 targeted regions through a network of at least 10 PFIs
- creation of 300 SCAs implementing 300 IGAs;
- 80% of 57 target "Communautes Rurales " have developed their own local development plans
which are appraised and approved; they are based on the priority needs of vulnerable groups, as
reflected in the PPA, and ready to be translated into sub-projects for funding;
- The Poverty Management Information System (PMIS) is developed and generates useful
information regularly disseminated to Ministries, Local Governments and CBOs for their
development plans;
- The results and lessons learned from the first phase of the program have been communicated to
SFMA, CBOs, NGOs, Local Governments, PFIs and other potential stakeholders involved in
implementing Phase II.
* Outcome Indicators
30 % of test communities making development decisions based on priorities of local
development plans
50 % of vulnerable groups receiving TA under the project meet the micro-finance institution
credit criteria.
*   Output Indicator
75 % of projects formulated and implemented by the CBOs (trained under the project) which
reflect criteria of sound design and are implemented according to the strategy of the SDF.
Phase 2: Scaling up and geographical expansion
This phase will expand the strategies tested in the pilot phase on a larger scale or in different contexts.
Keeping in mind the overarching aim of the project, the strategy will focus on the delivery mechanism of
the projects implemented. Where successful, this approach will be applied to other projects in the target
areas. More specifically, the second phase entails: (i) scaling up of all components (SDG & SDC) in
targeted villages where other donors are not implementing similar activities; (ii) monitoring and evaluation
of the project implementation mechanism and activities; and (iii) capitalizing on lessons learned.
Performance Triggers conditioning the transition to phase 3
-8 -



* The SDF approach is expanded to other regions not covered by other donors
- PPAs are conducted in all target communities where other donors are not implementing
similar activities
- The micro-finance activities harmonized with micro-finance components of other
donor-financed projects
- Increase in cost-share of the PMIS by the Govemment: recurrent cost supported by the
Government budget progressively up to 50%
* Outcome indicators
- 70 % of test communities making development decisions based on development plan
- 75 % of vulnerable groups receiving TA under the project meet the micro-finance
institution's credit criteria
* Output indicators
- 75 % of projects formulated and implemented by the CBOs (trained under the project) reflect
criteria of sound design and are implemented according to the strategy of the project.
Phase 3: Fine-tuning
The third phase of the project aims at:
(i) fine-tuning the operational mechanism of the SDF; (ii) harmonization of procedures (community
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation) of community-based projects with other
donors based on constant M&E feedback; and
(iii) capitalization on lessons learned for long-term sustainability.
Projects will be extended to a greater number of villages. Other priority areas not touched during Phases I
and 2 will be targeted.
* Outcome indicators
- 90% of communities targeted under phase 2 are satisfied with the services of the SDF, feel that it
is equitable and transparent, and are able to work with the SDF as well as with other donors.
* Output indicators
- database on poverty conditions is operational
-9-



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        costs      % of    financing   Bank-
_____________________________     (US$M)     Total     (US$M)    financing
1. Basic Social Services and       Social Investment    12.35     26.5      12.04      40.1
Community Infrastructure           Funds
2. Access to Micro-Finance:                            19.79      42.5       4.31      14.4
Increase access to micro-finance
services and financing
Income-Generating Activities
3. Vulnerable Groups and CBOs      Social Funds &      3.54        7.6       3.54      11.8
Capacity Building                  Social Assistance
-- Institutional Development
-- Capacity Building
4. Social Fund Management (including  Institutional     9.80      21.1       9.06      30.2
poverty monitoring)                Development
-- Poverty strategy and monitoring
-- Project Implementation Unit
5. PPF                             Social Funds &       1.05       2.3       1.05       3.5
Social Assistance
Total Project Costs                   46.53      100.0      30.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    46.53      100.0     30.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Mainstreaming gender in poverty reduction programs and government budgeting. The causes and
impact of poverty are different for men and for women, and planners must understand gender differences in
access to and control of economic and social assets in order to create a gender-responsive policy
environment. In the context of public expenditures budgeting and program and project formulation, there
are many areas in which men and women agree on priorities, or the sequencing of interventions. But, there
are also many other areas in which they differ. Therefore, the collection and dissemination of key
sex-desegregated poverty indicators, awareness raising at the conununity and national levels, and
gender-inclusive budget planning and public expenditure review (sex-desegregated expenditure incidence
analysis) are necessary activities to be implemented in the course of the program.
Management of poverty data. Collection and management of poverty data for monitoring living
conditions entails the collaboration of producers and users of data, i.e., organizations working in various
sectors: health, education, integrated social services, community development, employment, agriculture,
- 1 0 -



NGOs/CBOs, research institutions and the public and the private sectors. The Social Development Project
aims to support the emergence and effective functioning of a network of producers and users of data on the
one hand, and to implement a sustainable system for poverty monitoring on the other.
By the end of the second phase, the Social Fund Unit will become an autonomous, sustainable national
institution, managed according to a well-defined operational manual, and with a specific mandate to
support the most vulnerable populations in their efforts to use available resources to improve their standard
of living.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The project is expected to generate the following benefits: i) increasing access to and
improving the quality of basic social services at the community level; (ii) building and strengthening the
capacity of the targeted poor to design and manage development activities that have an impact on their
welfare; (iii) building and strengthening the capacity of PFIs and CBOs to work effectively with the
poorest and most vulnerable targeted groups; and (iv) strengthening the national capacity to collect and
analyze poverty data, monitor poverty trends effectively, and inform policy leading for poverty
reduction.
T'arget Groups. The target population is mostly poor communities, located in both remote rural areas
and urban areas. The SDF aims to target 57 communautes rurales (administrative units consisting of
an average of 65 villages each) and seven urban villages during the pilot phase. Special consideration
will be given to the vulnerable groups, particularly women, youths, and other socially marginalized
groups. The other set of beneficiaries are the PFIs, CBOs and district councils and authorities, whose
planning, management, and implementation skills will be strengthened by the project.
The Government and its partners have agreed to reach all the poor in the country through a geographic
distribution of the regions among the donors. The IDA-financed SDF will be implemented in the
regions of Louga, Kolda, Kaolack, and Dakar; the ADB-financed Social Fund will be implemented in
the regions of Thies, Dakar, Tambacounda, and Diourbel; and the UNDP-financed Enlarged Poverty
Alleviation (EPAP) will be implemented in the Departments of Kedougou, Bambey and Dakar.
1JSAID has a micro-finance project that will target institutions in the regions of Tambacounda, Kolda,
Ziguinchor, Thies, and Dakar (Pikine and Rufisque).
- 11 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Management and Coordination of the Poverty-Alleviation Program and Donor support
National Program for Poverty Alleviation. The overall Government framework to fight poverty is the
National Program for Poverty Alleviation (NPPA) which was prepared on the basis of discussions
between the Govemment, the Collectivites Locales, the CBOs and NGOs, the private sector, and
donors, responsibility for the NPPA was transferred in October 2000 from the Ministry of Planning to
the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The NPPA constitutes the basis of the strategy in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Poverty-alleviation objectives and strategies defined by the NPPA
are shared and implemented by several Ministries through, (a) sector-wide programs implemented by
sectoral Ministries, such as the 10-year National Health Development Program (1995-2005) supported
by the ongoing five-year investment program, the Ten-Year Education and Training Program
(2000-2010), and the Rural Infrastructure National Program, and (b) several social funds implemented
and coordinated by the Ministry of Family Affairs and National Solidarity (MFSN), such as the present
IDA-financed Social Development Fund, the ADB-financed Poverty-alleviation Project, and the
UNDP-financed (EPAP). Since 1998 (arrete 3025 of the Prime Minister), the NPPA has been
coordinated by the Orientation and Coordination Committee (OCC) which is a large body chaired by
the Minister in charge of the NPPA, and includes representatives of all Technical Ministries involved in
the NPPA, Local Government associations, and the civil society. Since October 2000 (decret
2000-837), the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) is responsible for the formulation and
coordination of the national strategy for Poverty Alleviation -- including the PRSP preparation, while
the MFSN is responsible for the operational coordination and implementation of all poverty-alleviation
programs.
Ministry of Economy and Finances (MEF). For the preparation of the PRSP, the Directorate of
Statistics of the MEF is carrying out the baseline data survey and will carry out the update of the
country poverty profile, as well as regular poverty assessments in the future to provide information for
monitoring implementation of the PRSP. The Cellule de Suivi des programmes de Lutte contre la
Pauvrete (CSLP) of the MEF has the responsibility to: (i) ensure synergies and complementarity of all
investment programs and their consistency with poverty-reduction objectives; (ii) monitor the progress
of the PPA/PRSP through a comprehensive computerized Poverty Information System (PIS) and
performance indicators to be set up in the PRSP; (iii) provide information related to poverty-reduction
progress to all partners. The MEF will meet once a year for a joint review of the progress of the PPA
with all partners including the donors. This yearly joint review will include: (i) progress in the actions
carried out by other sector-wide projects in education, health, and rural development as far as poverty
alleviation is concerned and (ii) progress in the actions of all social fund and projects coordinated by
the MFSN.
The Ministry of Family Affairs and National Solidarity will carry out its responsibility of
operational coordination of all programs of poverty alleviation through a Structure de Suivi et de
Coordination Operationnelle (SSCO), supported by IDA under the project, which will coordinate all
the social funds regardless of the origin of funds (IDA, AfDB, UNDP, etc.). During project
preparation, the Govemment decided to delegate implementation of the IDA-financed Social
Development Fund Project to a new executing agency created by the Government for this purpose, the
Social Fund Management Association (SFMA) which operates under the supervision of the MFSN.
The delegation is embodied in an Accord de Gestion Subsidiaire between the MEF and the new
SFMA. The Development Credit Agreement between the Government and IDA is complemented by a
Project Agreement between the Government and the SFMA. It wag agreed during negotiations that the
- 12 -



MEF and SFMA will enter into an agreement (Protocole d'Accord) to clarify the use by the MEF of
the MIS and other resources provided by the SFMA from IDA funds under this Project. The SSCO
will monitor the implementation by the SMFA of the IDA-financed Social Development Fund Project,
as well as the other social funds, through a specific module of the PIS and the Agency's MIS. The
MFSN will meet once a year with donors to review the progress of all programs under the supervision
of the MFSN.
SDF Management
The Social Fund Management Association (SFMA). The implementation agency of the IDA-financed
SDF will be the SFMA, created and registered in November 9, 2000 (Registration No 10386), as an
autonomous agency with the status of a non-profit association under the Law 68-08, following the
AGETIP model. The Association will be composed of:
* the General Assembly (GA) which consists of representatives of four Ministries (MFSN, MEF,
MP and MJ) involved in poverty alleviation, of Collectivites Locales, and civil society. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that the composition of the GA will be extended
to include representatives of other Ministries in charge of investment programs that address poverty
reduction.
* the Social Fund Management Unit (SFMU) comprising high-level professionals in the fields of
community-driven development and micro-finance, recruited on a competitive basis from the
private sector market under procedures conforming to with World Bank guidelines.
General Assembly of the SFMA. The GA of the SFMA will be the "Managing BoardiConseil
d'Administration" of the Association. It will be chaired by the Minister in charge of the operational
coordination of the programs of poverty alleviation, and will have the responsibility to: (i) approve the
Manuals of Procedures (MOPs) for the management of the funds; (ii) jointly review, with the SDF
donors, the progress on implementation of the Operation Plan and Budget (OPB) for the previous year;
(iii) discuss and approve the OPB submitted by SFMU for the following year; and measure the
progress of the project on the basis of the long list of performance indicators in the MOPs, and the
short list in the Development Credit Agreement; (iv) recruit and evaluate the General Director of the
SFMU.
Social Fund Management Unit. The SFMU will be accountable to the GA (Managing Board),
although this Board will have no influence on SFMU decisions between the two annual reviews by the
Board. The SFMU will be made up of four distinct functioning sub-units. Components I and 3 will be
implemented through the Commnunity Development Support Unit (CDSU) while component 2 will be
implemented through the Micro-Finance Support Unit (MFSU). The Information, Monitoring, and
Evaluation Unit (IMEU) and the Financial and Administrative Unit (FAU) in charge of accounting and
personnel, will complement the SFMU. The SFMU will manage the Special Account. The Central
SFMU (CSFU) will be responsible for the regional branches (RFMU). The RFMU will be expected to
act as a technical arm of the Regional Development Agency (RDA) for poverty alleviation. All
national and regional units will be staffed with out-sourced professionals having the relevant skills in
each area of expertise, recruited by the GD according to procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
SFMU will operate on the basis of the following principles: (a) transparency, simplicity, and
flexibility; (b) execution by PFIs and CBOs, eventually with the assistance of NGOs, through
contractual arrangements resulting from fair and transparent selection; (c) stakeholder/beneficiary
participation which must be gender inclusive; (d) monitoring and evaluation of the performance of
- 13-



SFMiUs and partners' to enable implementation of corrective measures; and (e) replicability. The four-
main components that will be managed by the SFMU are: (i) improve access to social services and
basic infrastructure; (ii) improve ability to access credit; (iii) build CBO management capacity; and
(iv) develop the poverty-reduction management system, through the following management
arrangements:
a) Access to social services and basic infrastructure. The strategy to improve the above-mentioned
access is to provide small grants (called Social Development Grants -- SDGs) to communities for
financing micro-projects (MPs) proposed and implemented by targeted communities. The SFMU
/CDSU will have the overall responsibility for the coordination and implementation of the component.
It will be supported by the technical assistance from an institution (possibly an NGO) in nation-wide,
urban/rural, and multi-sector conmmunity development, to be selected on a competitive basis and in
place at project start up the responsibilities coordinated by the SFMU are listed below. They are
detailed in a specific module of the Operation Manual, along with the criteria and processes for
submitting, appraising, financing, executing, and monitoring and evaluating the communities' MPs.
* the Managing Board will have the responsibility of defining the targeting criteria and listing of
targeted eligible communities and the eligibility criteria for grants to sub-projects under the SDF,
and evaluating the progress of the component;
* the Directorate of Statistics (DS) will be responsible, (under the CSFU), for the technical
preparation of the draft list of targeted communities on the basis of the criteria mentioned above;
* the SDSU/RFMU will be responsible for informing the targeted communities about the
opportunities provided by the SDF and the procedures to access and manage the financial resources
(including the specific module of the operational manual, the standard forms for preparing a
micro-project, and grant application for the procurement of works, goods, and services financed by
the grant, and reporting on the progress of the MP). The SDSU/RFMUJ will also be responsible for
approving the appraised MP, transferring the grant to the community bank account for approved
MPs , and monitoring the execution of the MPs by the communities beneficiaries of grants;
*   the Commurities will be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the MPs, including
the management of grants, the procurement of works, goods, and services included in the MPs and
reporting on the completion of the MPs;
*   A Technical Committee at the Department level, composed of representatives of the Local
Governments/Communaut&s Locales; will be responsible for appraising the MPs submitted by the
eligible communities on the basis of the pre-determined criteria;
* NGOs and/or Technicians will be responsible for providing technical support to the Communities
under contracts for services defined in the MPs. A specific Operation Manual for making grants to
MPs, acceptable by IDA, will be prepared by the SFU and submitted to IDA before negotiations.
b) Access to Micro-Finance The Micro-Finance Support Unit (MFSU) will be established to performn
all activities under the micro-finance component. While it will operate within the framework of the
Social Fund Management Unit, the MFSU will be completely distinct from the CDSU, both in terms of
institutional structure as well as staff. The MFSU staff should be made up of at least three high-level
professionals including one micro-finance expert with a very good knowledge of the Senegalese
micro-finance industry, one expert in training, and one expert in monitoring and evaluation. The
MFSU will be supported by the technical assistance from an institution specialized in institution
building of PFIs, including training by experts, to be selected competitively and to be in place at project
start up. A specific module of the Operation Manual will govern implementation of this component.
Funds dedicated to this component are named the Social Development Credit (SDC). The strategy for
the SDC will be two-fold:
- 14 -



(i) the MFSU will work via established PFIs that meet the eligibility criteria defined in Annexes 2 and
16. Partner micro-finance organizations will be selected on a competitive basis to enter into an
agreement with the SFMU to provide financial services to poor communities for income-generating
activities using their own funds. The MFSU will not provide any line of credit to selected partner
financial institutions given the high level of liquidity that exists in the micro-finance industry in
Senegal. In addition, several current initiatives provide lines of credit to PFIs, including PMA (Fund
for agricultural loans), Fonds Suisse-Senegalais, Fonds Belge-Senegalais, AfDB's poverty-alleviation
project and the Dyna Enterprises funded by USAID. UNDP has a line of credit for ACEP (a major
microfinance network) while Caisse Fran aise is planning to set up another credit line in the coming
months. The SDC will support "social intermediation" activities by PFIs through a grant mechanism
that will cover the costs of outreach and providing information to targeted groups and communities by
PFIs, including training in establishing and managing solidarity groups in association with an PFI. The
vast majority of micro-finance interventions operate at a very low professional level. Insufficient
competence has been identified in the areas of: govemance, intemal control, managing growth, and
financial information management. Support for other identified deficiencies will be provided on
demand. The PFI will remain absolutely independent as far as its procedures and policies are
concemed. Continued assistance to the PFI will be subject to institutional performance and full
justification of the use of previous support.
(ii) in poorest areas where no regular PFI can be enticed to operate, the SDC will finance group IGAs
according to the following arrangements:
*   A community-based organization (or groups within it) will propose an IGA, most likely promoted
through an NGO, supported by a business plan, and a commitment to provide at least 10% of the cost,
of which at least 5% will be in cash.
*   Upon approval, the SFMU will provide training, capacity building, and equipment (if necessary) for
creation and/or strengthening of the group's Savings and Credit Association (SCA) or village bank,
which will mobilize the required cash and in-kind contributions to start the IGA, and open an account
in a licensed financial intermediary. An implementing agency will be responsible for providing
technical assistance to the CBO in managing the IGA and meeting its obligations, as well as for
reporting, the cost of which may be borne implementing by either the implementing agency as promoter
or by the SDC. If no financial intermediary is sufficiently near by or willing to participate, the
implementing agency will also handle transactions.
*   The CBO will sign an agreement with the SFMU, the financial intermediary and the implementing
agency to recover the cost of the IGA investment. The financial intermediary will be responsible for
financial aspects of monitoring and recovery of "the loan" against a fee built into the amount.
*   IGA Investment. The SMFU will provides a grant (the SDC) for procurement (usually through an
implementing agency) of the necessary equipment, construction, and initial inputs (as in the case of
normal SDF projects), and certify completion and commissioning of the investment.
*  Implementation and Recovery. The CBO will carry out the IGA, utilizing its cash contribution for
initial cash on hand, setting aside sufficient income for operating costs and maintenance, and making
cost-recovery loan payments into its account at the financial intermediary. Additional training and
capacity building may be provided, both for operation of the IGA and management of the SCA, either
through the implementing agency or through additional requests to SDC.
* Capitalization of SCA and Subsequent Lending. Upon completion of the required payments, the
accumulated funds will be released to the SCA for it to use for lending to members (in groups or as
individuals), maintenance and upgrading of the IGA, future IGAs and other uses. Groups that have
established a good track record of payment into their financial intermediary accounts may be able to
obtain additional credit from the intermediary in the future or to "graduate" their SCA into a licensed
- 15-



savings and credit cooperative.
c) Capacity building of Vulnerable Groups and CBOs. The CSFU/SDG, through the RFMU, will
have the overall responsibility for building capacity of the program beneficiaries including CBOs,
NGOs, Local Governments, and private firms. Capacity building activities managed by the RFMU will
be implemented in the areas targeted under component 1, and will include: dissemination of
information, training, establishing local networks and building operational capacity. The MOP outlines
the implementation principles of the se activities.
d) Poverty-Reduction Management System. The responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of the
NPPA/PRSP will be under the CSLP. M&E activities related to NPPA/PRSP will be based on
information provided by a global computerized web-based Poverty Management Information System
(PMIS) to be developed under the Project. The objective of the PMIS will be to: (i) provide decision
makers (including in the Ministries of Family Affairs, Education, Health, Rural Development, ) at the
central, regional, and local levels with relevant updated and detailed information on the poverty status
of the population; (ii) provide the same decision makers with information on the perception of poverty
by the poor. The difficulties the poor face in trying to improve their situation and to access Govemment
services. In parallel, the SMFA will develop the Management Information System for the Social Fund
(SF-MIS), which will be totally compatible with the PMIS and designed to be able to cover all Social
Funds in the country, regardless of the origin of funds. It will operate under the responsibility of the
IMEU and cover the information needs of the SMFU and the SSCO in the Ministry of Family Affairs
and National Solidarity to support the Ministry's decision making process for operational coordination.
The objective of the SF-MIS will be to: (i) track all information related to the inputs supplied by the
Social Funds and all other social sectors; (ii) develop cross-analysis between inputs and outputs for
management decision-making; (iii) provide the poor (and all other beneficiaries) with relevant
information related to the delivery of Govemment inputs and their measurable impacts of these inputs.
The management of the MIS will make necessary the out-sourcing of the provision of a large range of
information, to include building partnerships with: (a) communication specialists including the media
and journalists; and (b) NGOs to oversee project implementation at the local level, alert the
management unit about any emerging problems, and synthesize the lessons leamed from
implementation experience for wider dissemination.
Financial Management, Financial Reporting, Auditing Arrangements (see Annex 15)
Financial management system: Sound financial management systems will be installed at all levels
necessary to ensure that all project expenditures are recorded and reported based on the project's financial
information needs. These systems will comply with the World Bank's operational policies and procedures
(OP/BP 10.02). At the present project preparation stage and with regard to the project activities and
implementation arrangements, the levels at which the accounting systems will be installed are: (i) the
CSFU; (ii) the RFMU; (iii) the PFIs; and (iv) the communities.
The CSFU will have overall responsibility for the project's financial management system. It will be
equipped with a computerized financial management system, including: general accounting, cost
accounting, budgeting, contract management, and physical progress monitoring. This will enable keeping
track of and reporting on all the project's expenses by source of funds, expenditures categories, activities,
and beneficiaries. But since the SFMU will be created as an autonomous agency that should become
sustainable by the end of the first phase, its own financial situation should be looked at very closely.
Therefore, in addition to the project's financial statements, the CSFU's financial management system will be
capable of preparing the SFMU's own financial statements according to the laws and regulations related to
its legal statutes. At the RFMU level, an appropriate financial management system will be installed. It will
- 16 -



enable keeping track of and reporting on the project's and SFMU's transactions at the regional levels. All
records at the regional levels will be consolidated at the central level.
The selected PFIs in the micro-finance component should be able to provide all the financial information
needed on their savings and credit activities. The selected institutions will have a strong and viable financial
situation to ensure that the resources received from the project are safeguarded. Therefore, specific selection
criteria will be defined to ensure that these requirements are met (see Annex 2).
The financial management capacities of the communities will be strengthened as part of the project's a
ctivities. This will help ensure transparent financial management of the grants and a viable sustainable
financial situation of the income-generating activities, in which the communities will be involved under the
micro-finance component.
The manual of administrative, financial, and accounting procedures for the project was developed and will
be taken into account in the design of the project's overall financial management system.
Financial reporting: The project will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), each of
which will: (i) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications for funds for the six-months
period following the period covered by said report; (ii) show separately expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(iii) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by
said report; and explain variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iv) set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered the report.
In addition to these quarterly PMRs, annual financial statements will be prepared for the project and for the
SFMUJ as an autonomous agency. The annual financial statements of the PFIs involved in the
micro-finance component will also be required to evaluate the continuous viability of their financial
situation.
Auditing: The accounts of the project including those for the Special Account will be audited for each
fiscal year as well as the annual financial statements of the PFIs involved in the micro-finance component
and the SFMU's own annual financial statements. The auditors will be independent and acceptable to IDA.
TIhe audit reports will need to be acceptable to IDA will and be submitted not later than six months after the
end of each period audited.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The SDF project targets the poorest population living in geographically isolated villages and in urban
areas. The project aims to build capacity within these groups in order to improve their access to basic
social services, management of their own development, and access to micro-finance. In addition, the
project will improve in-country capacity of poverty management systems. The project will respond to the
Poor people's demand for social services by enabling them to sub-contract directly with service providers,
either among the NGOs or in private sector: the poor will thus be able to identify, plan, and implement
their own projects. Furthermore, the project will provide opportunities national and decentralized levels of
govenmments to collaborate with NGOs/CBOs and the local private sector for the delivery of basic
infrastructure and social services, while simultaneously building the social capital of targeted poor groups.
- 17 -



The project will be implemented by the Social Fund Management Unit (SFMU) to be created as an
autonomous agency. It will be staffed with service contractors. Project oversight will be the responsibility
of SFMA under the Ministry in charge of coordination of the NPPA. The SFMU will operate along the
following principles: (a) transparency, simplicity, and flexibility; (b) execution by NGOs, CBOs, and the
private sector ('faire-faire" approach) to ensure the decentralized and target-specific nature of the
activities; (c) stakeholders/beneficiaries participation ; (d) supervision and monitoring by an autonomous
project unit to enable the implementation of corrective measures; and (e) replicability.
The rationale for the adoption of the SDF approach is as follows:
(i) Traditional top-down projects with a centralized management structure have not proven to be an
effective mechanism to implement demand-driven projects, a concept which is at the core of the
over-arching capacity building aim of this project. The specific needs of more vulnerable sub-sections of
the community can only be met through a grass-root participatory mechanism.
(ii) The project component I (access to basic community social services and infrastructure) will introduce
an innovative approach to community capacity building: that of community based sub-contracting with
NGOs and the private sector for project implementation. This is a break from past projects where
intermediaries (such as NGOs) between the SDF and ultimate beneficiaries have been the focus of
capacity-building efforts and have absorbed much of the gain in terms of capacity building that comes from
exposure to project management. The SDF will ensure that adequate training and support is given directly
to the beneficiaries to allow them to gain the most from the experience.
(iii) The social assessment (Annex I 1) emphasizes that a striking characteristic of poor villages is their
strong independence and reluctance to become dependent on the Government for the fulfillment of their
needs. The independent structure of the SDF and the mechanism of direct community contracting provides
the opportunity for communities to build their capacity to manage their own development needs, without
funneling the efforts through the Government bureaucracy.
(iv) The micro-finance component of the project has been thoroughly considered for its importance for
poverty alleviation in Senegal. The social assessment findings (Annex 1 1) and the presence of a substantial
number of PFIs and smaller SCAs in the country are testimony to the strong demand for credit for
income-generating activities. Moreover, lack of access to credit is an important characteristic that
differentiates poorer and more vulnerable groups from more advantaged groups. The project aims to
expand the credit network to these groups by providing incentives to credit providers to expand their target
clientele. The recommendations of the Quality Enhancement Review have been incorporated into the
design of this component, so that the SDF will contract out all activities of this component to eligible PFIs
and SCAs.
(v) The AGETIP structure as an alternative: The AGETIP was considered inappropriate as the structure
for project implementation. Firstly, projects implemented through this structure do not respond to the
variety of needs that arise from a demand-driven approach. Secondly, the structure does not facilitate a
participatory approach which regard to project design and implementation. This is crucial to meeting the
project objective of capacity building for vulnerable groups. Thirdly, AGETIP supports Government
schemes in rural areas, working on a premise that the Government strategy is an accurate representation of
the reality and priorities. The project aims to target specifically the groups that have been marginalized by
this very process. Hence it is imperative that the mechanism used is a new one, and that it espouses the
concept of participation and capacity building aimed at giving communities the ability and means to control
- 18-



their own needs.
Keeping the above issues in mind the project has been designed with a phased approach, and it will be
implemented through a SDF, managed by a unit that will function independently of the Government
structure.
Why an APL? A framework for the devolution of management of community-based projects to the district
and decentralized levels is needed for the long term. The method of "learning by doing" which is highly
advocated in the SDF project, and gradual involvement of people at the district and local levels should
prove to be very successful, especially in emphasizing the comnmunity demand-driven approach. This
learning mode will be finalized in an APL format as we will agree on the outline of a ten-year program,
while building on the events and stock taking of the learning processes mid-way.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           j          Project                  (PSR) Ratings
{__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (Bank-financed   rojects onil)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Social/population -- Senegal      HRDP IHealth & Population         S             S
(completed)
Basic Education -- Senegal        Literacy Project: priority       HS             HS
Women
HRDP2/ Education V               HS             S
(Completed)
Education Quality for All
Health -- Senegal                 Health SIP                        S             S
Health -- Senegal                  Endemic Diseases Project          U             S
Poverty/Health -- Senegal          Community Nutrition Project       S             S
Agriculture -- Senegal             National Rural Infrastructure
Project
Other development agencies
AfDB                              Poverty Alleviation Project
NDF                               Poverty Alleviation Project
UNDP                               Local Investment Funds
EU                                Micro-realizations/
Decentralization
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design reflects lessons learned from donor and national experiences with social funds as well as
from Bank's experience with other social investment funds. The following are the most relevant lessons
leamed.
- 19-



Lesson 1: Clear objectives and consistency with national development strategies are essential for the SDF
needs, therefore, to maintain clear and limited objectives. Efficiency of operational policies and
procedures, as well as overall program effectiveness, depend upon clear understanding of the SDF role in
an overall development strategy framework. It is important for Government to clarify SDF's role in the
context of national policies for social development, poverty reduction, and decentralization. Furthermore, it
is important to remember that SDF is designed to finance and oversee implementation of sub-projects and
not to make policies, and that while SDF managers and staff may bring important perspectives to inform
policy discussions, participation and coordination of all actors relevant to such discussions (including the
public, private, and NGO/CBO/MIS sectors) should be assured.
Lesson 2 (cf. ICR HRDP1): A well tailored role for NGOs under Govermment contract can prove very
effective and may be both less expensive and more participatory than direct Govemment implementation at
the community level. This is especially relevant in the context of decentralization of service delivery and
state disengagement from service provision and infrastructure management.
Lesson 3 (cf. ICR HRDP 1): Central coordination units in Ministries may be sources of delay and rivalry
rather than serving to facilitate the collaboration, implementation, and disbursement efficiency. Further
more, when the project ends, the PCU management or technical capacity is dispersed, leading to little gain
in institutional capacity or sustainability. Such units are not sustainable and decrease institutionalization of
aid management capacity.
Lessons learned from the implementation of AGETIP I and II and the ongoing female literacy project have
also been considered.
Lesson 4: Experience from similar projects financed by the Bank and other donors show that the success
of such projects derives from: (i) the design and implementation scheme based on community-felt needs;
(ii) building and investing in local organizations for operation and maintenance; and (iii) ensuring
community ownership, transparency, and accountability. Govenmment commitment, sustainable funding
mechanisms, and attention to cost recovery are also key elements for designing a sustainable intervention.
Lesson 5: Social fund interventions do not work where policies are biased against the poor. The
interventions have to be an integral part of the Govermnent's willingness and commitment to help the poor.
The commitment described in para. 4 below suggests that this willingness and commitment are present in
this case.
Lesson 6: Lessons learned from other Bank-supported Social Funds show that sustainability is a critical
issue. Sub-project sustainability requires a participatory process that seeks open consultation with
cornmunities on their needs and priorities and involvement of the community throughout the project cycle
to secure commitment to sub-project operation and maintenance To achieve success, sub-project
sustainability requires coordinated support from both the central and local govemments, with clearly
defined roles and responsibilities for each.
Lesson 7: Bank experience with other Social Funds shows that the development of key institutional
characteristics is a necessary condition for success of any project. The project will place emphasis on the
institotional characteristics that are considered most critical for the success of the SDF: operational
efficiency, transparency, and accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource-allocation criteria and
operational guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective MIS, and vigilant
- 20 -



supervision by extemal financial agencies; clear and simple procurement and disbursement procedures; a
proper targeting mechanism; and improved attention to monitoring and evaluation activities, including
beneficiary assessments.
Lessons drawn from the Bank's global experience are incorporated in Phase 1 of the Social Fund, such as
the emphasis on community-based development; independence of the Social Fund; no direct lending by the
Social Fund; and conformity to "Best Practice" in micro-finance in order to ensure long-term financial and
institutional suatainability.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Senegal has prepared a National Poverty Alleviation Program associated with an
Action Plan for Women's Development. It has stated its willingness to develop a 'faire-faire" approach
with the NGOs, CBOs, and private firms for the implementation of the NPPA.
Ihe borrower, under the leadership of the Planning Directorate, has shown full commnitment to the SDF
project. A preparatory committee with representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finances,
Ministry of Social Development, Ministry of Family Affairs and National Solidarity, the Ministry of
Youth, NGOs, and CBOs has been functioning for 15 months. The committee is assisted by two
consultants who are producing studies that are into project design process. This committee has produced
an official program that was submitted to the Bank for funding, along with the TORs for the proposed
studies. These initiatives have all been funded by the borrower, a clear indication of commitment and
interest. In March 1999, the committee organized a one-week workshop on the logical framework of the
project. The committee has followed the completion of the project preparation and approved technical
documents prepared within that framework. Also the Government has coordinated other projects in the
country, so that the SDF Project will play a complementary role to other existing Projects, like the Quality
E,ducation for All Project, the rural development project, literacy project, and other social fund projects
funded by other donors.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has always spearheaded living condition assessments in Senegal. No full assessment has been
done since the Bank assessment in 1994. An update of the poverty profile was done in 1995, based on
survey results and studies conducted under previous Bank projects, such as PAGD, PDRHI. The Bank
has capitalized on its experience with social funds in other countries as well as on country-specific
knowledge gained through the implementation of AGETIP I and II, the Female Literacy Project, and the
Nutrition Community Project. The Bank is in a strategic position to help the Government mobilize
resources and launch initiatives for sustainable poverty alleviation,
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The scope and mix of the selected sub-projects will be determined directly with the participatory involvement
of the CBOs and the various mechanisms ensuring participation of excluded groups in community
decision-making.
- 21 -



In addition to the genuine demand expressed by poor communities or individuals, and organizations of the
poor, a sub-project must be evaluated under objective criteria shared by all partners of the SDF to ensure an
equitable process for approval and implementation. In practice, it is necessary to simplify the justification
techniques. Theoretical soundness needs to be balanced against operational constraints, human resources
limitations, time constraints, and the intensity of the social demand.
Even if the sub-projects are all geared toward reducing poverty, their efficiency will be variable as also their
duration, economic dimension, and the costs and expected benefits. Since resources to be allocated are finite, it
is wise for beneficiaries to articulate their choices around their competing expressed needs and objective
evaluation of the possible interventions.
The essence of an economic analysis is to compare all of the benefits of the proposed action to all the costs
with a project said to pass a benefit-cost test if the sum of all the benefits is greater than the sum of all the
costs. Such an analysis is seriously defective without monetary values for the social gains and services
affected by a proposed action. Thus, the methods for evaluating sub-projects are just mere instruments of
decision-making. Nonetheless, there are other criteria of social dimensions to be considered when evaluating
the value of sub-projects. Quantitative factors must be substituted as much as possible for subjective
judgments on the choice to be made to avoid oversimplification.
In the economic analysis, information has to be collected, organized, and used to make an objective decision.
Any project will be analyzed with sets of criteria reconciling three ultimate objectives:
-   To have better investment or fund-allocation decision;
* To alert CBOs on the risks taken and the exclusion of alternative opportunities implied by their choice;
and
D   To guide decision makers in minimizing negative outcomes from sub-optimal resources allocations.
To render operational the economic approach, a sample of IEC, Community Infrastructure, and
income-generating sub-projects format is provided based on typical cost, market, and impact analysis. As
illustration, estimates in health and education areas are given based on data from projects already completed in
similar conditions in Senegal (Annex 4).
Cost-benefit analysis
In the case of income-generating activities, cost-benefit analysis is more desirable. Its accuracy will depend
on data available to the beneficiaries or their contractors. A format is provided in the operation manual. In the
context of the SDF, cost-benefit analysis is required for income-generating sub-projects, the financial flows,
rate of returns, and the cash-flow analysis must be computed rigorously in the analysis in addition to the
analysis of the sub-project environment. Given the scope of sub-projects envisaged under the SDF and the
social dimension of their goals, the evaluation criteria must be kept as simple as possible, by not using the
discount rate method, which is an instrument that takes into account the temporal dimension of money, and to
put into the analysis and the decision making the real opportunity cost of capital.
Finally, the use of the following criteria are recommended:
*   The flows of net benefits before and after funding
* The net results and the cash flows forecasted
If the funds requested are beyond specific levels as shown in Annex 4, simple analysis should be completed
- 22 -



with computation of the payback period of the funds invested, the return on capital, and cost-benefit ratio.
Cost-effectiveness analysis
This analysis is recommended for the basic social services and community infrastructure as well as the
capacity-building component. The reason is that problems arise when one tries to place monetary value on
social benefits. In health, education, and other social services, the attempt will be perilous and very much
biased by judgment, values, or non-autonomous revealed preferences. Thus, instead of benefit, desirable
outcomes can be summarized as effectiveness which will be expressed in physical terms or scale of quality.
Thus, effectiveness stands as a second best proxy for estimating the fulfillment of the goals sought.
For a cost-effectiveness analysis, the table of financial flows must provide the costs and benefits for each
period. Some of the benefits could be expressed in monetary terms. However, they must be complemented by
non-monetary benefits expressed in physical units or qualitative scale.
The effectiveness could be expressed according to criteria set beyond monetary values, particularly in social
projects. It represents the level of reaching the objectives of the sub-project. The assessment of that level is
based on qualitative terms, taking into account the baseline situation and the importance that the
decision-makers put on the qualitative advantages of the project. Where possible, social benefits that are
intangible must be transformed or provide with a close social substitute that one can quantify and value easily.
In the absence of directly quantifiable indicators, an assessment based on the following is made:
*   Ratios of cost and physical benefit
*   Indirect performance indicators and/or derived representative of the desired effects on the characteristics
of poverty, and the resources of the Government and communities.
Financial (see Annex 5)
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial risk analysis
This analysis determines the ultimate financing decision. Experience with similar projects within the Bank
portfolio as well as others show that communities generally prioritize investments which can be expected to
have high rates of returns. The SDF operational manual will include simple financial eligibility criteria,
particularly for income-generating sub-projects.
The risk analysis may lead to the calculation after project worth criteria of critical values of the sub-project,
i.e., the values of variation for key variables. A critical value is the value when reached given an unfavorable
trend, will render the project unprofitable in relation to its objectives. This critical value is determined in
relation to one criterion, the other things being held constant. The percent variations can be compared to
determine the most critical values, for the sub-project is the most sensitive to and show how robust the project
is in a changing environment and unexpected situations.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Cost-recovery
- 23 -



Beneficiaries will be expected to contribute to the cost of sub-projects. A detailed financial analysis was
finalized during the appraisal mission, including assessment of operational and maintenance arrangements
based on the sample of sub-projects analyzed in the economic analysis. From the analysis of the environment
and the foreseen participation of beneficiaries, some level of cost-recovery is envisioned at a rate of around 5
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal analysis impact applies to costs and benefits identifiable before and after project which could be
tied to fiscal flows. These concem:
* The impact on public resources
* The costs-recovery in social and community activities undertaken by the central and decentralized public
entities
* Collected revenues in terms of taxes, spared losses, and saved expenses by public entities in direct relation
to the sub-project.
Generally, a direct quantification can be done on:
* Taxes on revenues of new employees
v Partial or integral costs recovered
9 Indirect taxes deriving from induced activities of sub-projects
* Local direct and indirect taxes
 Rural taxes and taxes on markets
* Savings on social expenditures.
Since the SDF unit will not be a branch of the govemment but an autonomous body, its institutional design
will encourage contributions from local beneficiaries. Contributions from Govemment will also be added to
fiscal impact at the start up of the SDF management unit by allowing access to recurrent cost-budgeting.
3. Technical:
The issue of technical capacity and quality of a sub-project will be addressed during its selection process.
The assessment will determine if the sub-project is technically sound and useful lessons will be drawn from
experience with other donor-funded projects. The SFMU will use national technical standards, where these
are available and appropriate, and will assist in developing appropriate standards for those type of projects
for which these are not available. Standards are detailed in the operational manual. The SFMU will
promote the use of simple, appropriate, and environmentally sound technologies corresponding to the needs
and capabilities of the beneficiary communities. Labor-intensive work will be encouraged while insuring
technical quality.
4. Institutional:
This section aims to provide a picture of the institutional arrangements and the institutional capacity for the
SDF project. The nature of the project necessitates an institutional arrangement in which national, regional,
and local bodies buy into a common project mandate, but are clear of their specific roles and
responsibilities with regard to the various project components. Although the project will formally be
mapped to the MFSN, the Social Fund will function as a privately managed institution. This is in keeping
with the high independence among poor communities stemming from their reluctance to become dependent
- 24 -



on the Government structure for meeting basic needs. The SDF will consist of two bodies: the Social
Development Grant which will implement components I and 3, while the Social Development Credit will
irmplement component 2.
Although the SDF is situated outside the Government structure, the project emphasizes the strong
involvement of local Government structures, specifically in phase 3 of the project. It is envisaged that
by this time, the capacity-building objective of the project will result in greater participation of local
vulnerable groups in local govemment decisions, and that local development plans will, as a result, be
more reflective of real needs. Capacity building in local government is a specific objective of the
on-going PNIR project and hence is not directly targeted by this project.
The overarching capacity-building aim of the project is highly visible in its experimental approach to
community sub-contracting. This will be operationalized through arrangements for direct contracts
between the SDF and the beneficiary community, sub-group, or individuals. Where deemed necessary,
beneficiary groups/individuals will be encouraged to sub-contract parts of the project to the private sector
or NGOs. This is a break from past projects where intermediaries between the SDF and ultimate
beneficiaries absorbed much of the gain in terms of capacity building that comes from exposure to project
management. The SDF will ensure that adequate training and support is given to beneficiaries they benefit
the most from the experience.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The implementation unit of the SDF project will be the SFMU which has been newly created as an
autonomous agency outside the normal Government structure. It will be staffed with out-sourced
high-level professionals, including a small team in Dakar and branches in the regions. To speed up the
start-up of the activities the technical capacity of the SMFU will be improved by the recruitment of two
large and specialized firms: one consultant (presumably a large NGO) for providing technical
assistance to the CDSU in the area of community development for component 1, the other for providing
technical assistance to the MFSU in the area of PFI capacity building. The Central SFMU will be
responsible for the regional branches (REMUs) and accountable to the GA. The SFMU will operate on
the basis of the principles including: execution by CBOs with assistance of NGOs, and PFIs, intensive
use of the private sector, and local public structures if needed, to ensure the decentralized and
target-specific nature of the activities. The Directorate of Statistic (DS) will be responsible for the
implementation of the Poverty Monitoring component and the Cellule de Suivi des programmes de
Lutte contre la Pauvrete (CSLP) within the MEF will be in charge of the production of the annual
report on poverty.
4.2 Project management:
An institutional assessment study was conducted to evaluate the capacity of the major players in the SDF
Project, and their strengths and weaknesses. As mentioned above, the project necessitates an institutional
network that ranges from the national to the village level. Keeping this in mind, the study covered eight
national ministries, as well as a gamut of NGOs and CBOs currently active in the regions of Dakar,
Kaolack, and Tambacounda. The institutional arrangements for the project, are based on the findings of
this study.
The Government Structure
The SDF project will be mapped to the MFSN which was deemed to be the most ready to implement the
project. But all practical purposes, the SDF is an independent structure (the SFMA), which will be staffed
by non-government staff and will function as a private institution in the private sector. To ensure
borrower commitment, and to make sure the project is in line with the Government's larger poverty
- 25 -



program (PLP) of which the SDF is a part, the board managing the PLP has been involved in project
design from the start. This committee consists of representatives from the eight stakeholder ministries and
NGOs. Some of these members may serve on the managing board of the SFMA.
The Ministry in charge of statistics has a central role in the poverty-management systems (component 4) of
the project. The poverty-monitoring systems developed through this component will be used to enhance the
quality of projects for a wide range of Ministries, such as health, education, and rural development. This
component focuses heavily on direct capacity building and technology investment within the Government
structures.
The involvement of the Govemment structure in the operation of the project will be greater and more direct
at the regional and sub-regional levels. The study emphasizes that many of the local/regional bodies of the
ministries could be well integrated to the project, with stronger human and technical resources. The project
structure encourages the support of regional Government units (especially the local technical support units
of the Ministry of "Decentralisation et Amenagement du Territoire) which will be responsible for ensuring
that projects funded by the SDF (especially with regard to component 1) fit into regional poverty planning
strategies, i.e., they complement and not compete with other development initiatives in the area.
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Community-Based Organizations (CBOs)
Senegal has a substantial number of NGOs and CBOs, although they tend to be concentrated in specific
regions, such as Dakar, and often work in similar areas, such as women, and basic health, and education.
The project aims to target these very issues, i.e., to extend the network of these organizations by providing
incentives for active NGOs to work in new, more needy areas of the country and to foster the development
of CBOs in these targeted poor areas which are characterized by a lack of organized local capacity.
Moreover, the innovative feature of community-based sub-contracting will encourage NGOs (and the
private sector) to tailor their services to issues prioritized by the most needy communities.
In a broad sense, NGOs and CBOs buy strongly into the overarching poverty-reduction and
capacity-building aims of the projects. They have the advantage of good local knowledge, have established
a rapport with communities, and have decentralized structure and operations. However, here there lies a
significant difference between the two groups. NGOs, especially larger, international NGOs have more
sustainable work programs stemming from financial stability tend to view local operations as an
implementing arm of a more centralized capacity, i.e., local staff rarely have any decision-making powers
or initiative. The result is that although these organizations work at the grassroots level, the projects are
not always designed for priority local needs, and often lack the innovation and inspiration that comes from
true ownership and participation. Local NGOs are often better at shaping projects to reflect local needs,
but suffer from severe financial insecurity, which results in their inputs being short, sporadic, and lacking
in long-term vision and sustainability. As a group, NGOs suffer from poor administrative and management
capacity, an absence of formal procedures and consistency with regard to project implementation, poor
logistics, and a lack of visible results, stemming partly from poor research and project-evaluation
techniques. Although NGOs are not a target group of the project, the project aims to capitalize on the
project implementation experience of NGOs, through community-based sub-contracting. It is envisaged
that this will result in a more sustainable and realistic demand-based role for NGOs within the development
paradigm.
CBOs have a strong advantage over NGOs in that they reflect the true expression of grassroots initiative,
motivated primarily by a pressing desire to solve local problems. Their excellent understanding of
socio-cultural issues makes them crucial partners in the development process if the principles of
participation are applied. The project takes this perspective and works on the assumption (recommended in
- 26 -



the study) that CBOs are the primary local development institution that are sustainable over the long run.
The SDF's innovative community-based sub-contracting mechanism (see above and Annex 2) aims to
ensure that the project will foster the organization of the poor into groups (Component 3) and the process
of project implementation (Component 1) will give these organizations much needed managerial and
capacity-building experience that is often lost to them through the use of intermediaries like NGOs. The
study observes that the most active CBOs are those that have a long-term association with a larger body
and are involved in the project over a considerable length of time. It is envisaged that the SDF will provide
such a stable resource base that will furnish the time and support structure to enhance the growth and
crystallization of these organizations. Capacity enhancement of the poor is a primary goal of the SDF and
will be effected indirectly (through sub-contracting) in Component 1 and more directly in Component 3 of
the project. Sub-contracting will have the added advantage of enabling CBOs to observe and learn project
implementation skills from NGOs and the private sector and provide a platform on which links with these
service providers can be established.
M-ficro-finance Providers
The social assessment emphasized the strong need within targeted communities credit for
income-generating activities. Senegal has a wide range of PFIs and SCAs, the latter being smaller and less
formal and organized than the former. The institutional assessment study mentions that despite the
existence of these bodies, there is not enough credit available, to match the high need within the country.
More importantly, the conditions of credit favored by most PFIs (e.g., collateral), and the regions of their
operation means that, in most cases, the poorest and most vulnerable groups targeted by the SDF are not
touched by these institutions. These institutions are seen as being flexible and adaptive to clients needs and
also having an ability to mobilize local potential. The SDF micro-finance component builds on these
slrengths. It aims to extend the provision of financial services to poorer sections of society.
This aim will be met through a two-pronged strategy. Firstly, PFIs will be sub-contracted to implement
this component, i.e., supplying financial services to poor populations. Secondly, the institutions themselves
will be targeted for capacity building to enable them to reach this new clientele. The SDF will fund the
costs of intermediation to be carried out by PFIs by covering the cost of outreach and providing
information to targeted groups and communities, including training in establishing and managing solidarity
groups.
SCAs that are managed by the poor themselves or through the help of an NGO will benefit from: (i)
training and technical assistance in operational procedures and; (ii) building and equipment (computers,
and office furnishings) to set up small village banks.
7The SDF as a development institution
Project input into establishing and managing the SFMA is viewed as a long-term capacity-building
exercise. It is envisaged that the SFMA will continue beyond the life-span of the project by which time it
will be established enough to generate its own finances and be viewed as a central agency for
poverty-targeted initiatives.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement/contract management system proposed for the SFMU was reviewed before Project
negotiations, and an action plan to build adequate capacity in the new SFM[J was agreed upon at
negotiations for implementation before Credit effectiveness (see Annex 6). After completion of the action
plan by the new SFMU, a World Bank Procurement Analyst will carry out an assessment of SFMU's
capacity to handle procurement and to supervise and monitor procurement carried out by other actors in
the project that will be involved in procurement, in accordance with World Bank policies and procedures.
- 27 -



Other actors in the project with procurement responsibilities are PFIs and CBOs. The PFIs will be
assessed when they are evaluated and selected to participate in the project. The CBOs have no
procurement experience and capacity. The objective of the project is to build this capacity through a
learning process. All training and/or consultant services necessary will be provided to the SFMU to ensure
compliance with World Bank procurement policies and procedures. All training and/or consultant services
necessary will be provided by the SFMU to the CBOs and PFIs to ensure compliance with World Bank
procurement policies and compliance with procedures spelled out in the Manuals of Procedures agreed
upon with the World Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Sound financial management systems will be installed at all levels necessary to ensure that all project
expenditures are recorded and reported, based on the project's financial information needs. These systems
will comply with the Bank's operational policies and procedures (OP/BP 10.02). At the present preparation
stage of the project and with regard to the project's activities and implementation arrangements, the levels
at which accounting systems will be installed are: (i) the CSFU; (ii) the RFMU; (iii) the PFIs; (iv) the
communities.
The financial management capacities of the communities will be strengthened as part of the project's
activities to ensure transparent financial management of the grants they will receive and a sustainable and
viable financial situation for the income-generating activities in which they will be involved as part of the
micro-credit component.
The manual of administrative, financial, and accounting procedures of the project was developed. Bank
comments are included in the final version. The results of this work will be taken into account to fine tune
the design of the project's overall financial management system.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessmerit was done from January to March 2000 and the final report was issued in
June 2000. The report was based on a comprehensive documentation of the national poverty-alleviation
program, extensive field visits in three different regions, and various meetings in Dakar with agencies and
resource persons involved in the design and implementation of the national program.
During the EA process, wide public consultation was performed in three districts of the project area;
Pikine, Bambey, and Kolda. Meetings and individual and group interviews were arranged with target
groups (youth, women, professional associations and NGOs) to discuss environmental issues and potential
social and health issues including AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases. Necessary mitigation measures
(including institutional capacity building) were recommended in the EMP on the basis of the public
consultation findings.
Environmental issues raised by the report are related to the fact that the SDF is a financial lending
intermediary and as such, micro-projects and sub-projects will operate as stand-alone operations.
Therefore, the micro-projects and sub-projects may generate environmental impacts on natural resources,
health, and hygiene and should be properly assessed. The project will finance, through the approved
micro-projects and sub-projects, actions to mitigate the assessed envirronmental issue.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP is a composite of three main items:
- 28 -



*   The Manual of Procedures for the micro-projects and sub-projects includes specific sections providing:
environmental management rules for the preparation and implementation of the micro- and
sub-projects, guidance, and costs estimates for implementing mitigation measures;
*   The Manual of procedures includes a check-list for environmental review of micro- and sub-projects
and a framework for their environmental assessment, taking into account the EA recommendations;
*   A yearly review of the implemenation of the environmental rules of the Manual of Procedures.
All micro-projects and sub-projects will be appraised on the basis of criteria including specific
environmental criteria defined in the EA and incorporated in the Manuel of Procedures. The appraisal
committee will be trained to be able to apply the environmental criteria and to propose adequate actions to
be carried out by the communities under their micro-projects or sub-projects, as necessary. Training
regarding environmental issues eventually generated by micro- or sub-project will be provided to the NGOs
which will support communities. Training on such environmental issues will also part of GMT program
(component 3).
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: June 20, 2000
A first draft Environmental Assessment (EA) report was submitted for review and comments to the Bank.
Comments were given by the Bank and encorporated in the final version, provided in June 2000. This
version is deemed acceptable by the Bank.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
a) At the stage of environmental screening, environmental issues were included in the agenda of the national
project preparation committee and discussed among all represented stakeholders (local leaders,
beneficiaries, national and local Government representatives, NGO and CBO leaders. The Ministry of
Environment is also a member of the national committee;
b) At the onset of the EA study, field visits were organized in three different urban and rural locations that
represent the full range of projects areas. Potential beneficiaries (youth and women's groups, NGOs,
CBOs, and producers' groups) were either individually interviewed or invited to general meetings and
focus-groups.
Special care was taken to reach groups vulnerable to AIDS and STDs. Therefore, with help from public
health and welfare workers, male and female sex workers were specially targeted and interviewed to assess
the magnitude of health risks, verify the current medical and social care system, and design adequate
mitigating measures.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Ihe annual progress reports on the project will include a specific section on the review of the environmental
aspects of the projects: (i) number of micro- and sub-projects generating environmental issues; (ii) number
of micro- and sub-projects whose design addresses these environmental issues; (iii) evaluation of the
effectiveness of the implementation of the mitigation measures designed in the micro- and sub-projects. The
indicators include the costs of mitigation measures into the budget of the micro-projects and sub-projects;
- 29 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The objectives of the project are (i) to support projects and activities prioritized by the target poor
communities through the establishment of a Social Fund mechanism; (ii) to provide tools and technical
assistance (such as training, information databases, network building, and hands-on sharing of best
practice) to poor individuals and groups so they can better prioritize, plan, implement, and sustainably
manage their own initiatives and activities; (iii) to encourage and enhance the organization of the poor into
informal or formal groups such as CBOs, and to build the capacity of such groups; and (iv) to improve the
management and monitoring of poverty initiatives at national, regional, and local levels.
A social assessment was conducted as part of the project preparation. The findings and issues reflected in
the social assessment correspond with the objectives of the project. Since the project targets poor
communities and priority is given to women and youth. Major finding of the social assessment reflect
project goals.
The socio-cultural attributes in all villages are characterized by strong patriarchal leadership in the figure
of a respected and elderly village chief. All villages demonstrated a high degree of consultation between
men and women. However, the division of labor was demarcated strictly along gender lines. Men and
women play different roles in their villages based on their socio-cultural ideologies.
In all villages it was found that kin networks are strong and determinant factors in residential pattems and
marriage choices, few or no "strangers" live in the village selected (i.e., seasonal workers or people outside
of the local historical experience). All villages display a high sense of collective community consciousness,
with strong social networking pattems, which in part are the coping strategies for poverty reduction.
Lack of formal institutions: None of the villages had a formal village development association, women's
development group, or a youth association, although one village, Thianga Omar Gueye, had an informal
women's association. Women organized themselves to network socially and to counsel, mentor, and give
advice to the younger generation. It is through such network meetings that cultural issues such as rituals,
initiations, marriages, and other social and cultural affairs affecting villagers lives are discussed and
decided.
Access to credit: All villages expressed a great deal of interest in obtaining access to credit. Women had
income-generating activities, which they managed as a group or individually, and whose income they used
for the welfare household welfare. Women were particularly keen to obtain credit for income-generating
activities, especially during the rainy season when poverty is at its worst.
Issues of demographic, environmental, and agricultural change: All villages visited expressed the
opinion that their economic situation had become worse over the last 20 years and that the level of poverty
has increased; the seasons cited were the combinations of climatic and environmental change, increased
population pressure, and changes in agricultural policies. The lack of agricultural inputs, such as fertilizer
and equipment, soil erosion, increased soil alkalinity, and the lack of training/appropriate technology have
all contributed to the decline in agricultural productivity and to poverty.
Lack of health and education: Health problems were high on the list of village priorities in every case,
and both men and women expressed their concern about access to improved pre-natal and maternal care.
The women complained that smoke inhalation from cooking with wood created major respiratory and eye
- 30 -



problems, which are difficult to treat due to the lack of health care and resources. Furthermore, the heavy
burden that grain pounding puts on women's health represents a serious health problems.
Education was also a major priority in the villages visited. Children's health and education was equally
prioritized. In both pastoral or agricultural villages. Education and adult literacy were also priority
concerns. Both men and women in all the villages worry that if education is provided, will the curriculum
be appropriate to serve their needs, will there be enough female teachers, will there be enough toilets and
water facilities for both boys and girls, and will girls be used to perform domestic type chores in the school
environment.
Insecurity: The theft of livestock is an ever present problem in the daily lives of villagers today. In urban
areas, the crime rate is high, and women are often the most targeted.
Lack of access to water: Lack of access to water is a serious development constraint for agricultural and
cattle productivity and for household consumption and use. All the villages articulated a strong demand for
water. Activity profiles done with women in Kerr Ibra Fall and Thianga Omar Gueye revealed that women
spend 6 to 7 hours per day drawing and fetching water. In Kerr Ibra Fall the well was 45 meters deep and
the women complained of severe back and shoulder pains caused by drawing water. In other villages
women have to walk as much as 10 kilometers to draw water from wells.
Lack of storage facilities for agricultural produce and lack of pasture for cattle: Both men and women
in all villages articulated strongly the lack of storage for agricultural produce as a major problem which
resulted in a lot of produce wastage. Women also complained of their lack of knowledge of conservation
techniques, which leads to spoilage of agricultural produce not or immediately consumed sold. Most
women who have no access to markets have to sell their produce to middlemen, who are highly exploitative.
Lack of transport: For all villages the lack of transport is a major constraint. For example, in Thianga
Omar Gueye and Kerr Ibra Fall, activity profiles with women revealed that lack of transportation severely
inhibits their income- earning capacity because of their geographic isolation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A participatory approach was used to obtain stakeholder participation and all beneficiaries were involved.
(a) The preparation of the project has been a collaborative process involving members of a preparatory
committee, with representatives from key Ministries, NGOs, and CBOs.
Several workshops were conducted with representation of key stakeholders to help define the project
objectives and outputs. The result was the project design summary presented in Annex 1, based on the
draft logical framework developed by the committee.
(b) The social assessment was conducted using a participatory approach and techniques, such as
semi-structured interviews, focus groups discussions, daily activity profiles, participant observations,
historical profiles, well-being ranking, and social mapping to determine the needs and realities of poor
communities in the seven villages visited. Using these participatory methods, the villagers were encouraged
to identify and prioritize their problems and solutions, identify gender issues relating to poverty, and design
suitable local action plans that, when implemented, can lead to sustainable development.
(c) Poverty mapping was conducted throughout the entire country. Each village was visited. The results of
- 31 -



this mapping will lead to a Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) in each of the targeted villages and the
needs identified by the villagers were incorporated into the project design.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Role of NGOs and CBOs: NGOs and CBOs will play different roles depending on the project component.
For example, in the basic social services and infrastructure, NGOs will be contracted by communities to
undertake participatory planning exercises training, and IEC activities. The implementation of this
component is fully the responsibility of beneficiaries and their organizations.
For the micro-credit component, NGOs and CBOs as well as special PFIs will be contracted on a
competitive basis. In addition, these civil society institutions will indirectly benefit from project activities,
particularly the capacity-building component.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements at the community level: The social assessment findings shed some light on
institutional arrangements at the village level. All villages demonstrated a high degree of independence
vis-a-vis their relationships with government services, neighbors, or other external institutions. Although
some could cite specific experiences with a government service or non-governmental development activity
in their zones, each case was related to initiatives on the part of the villagers in question to solve a
particular local problem, as opposed to a search for general support.
Each village also demonstrated observable pride in its survival skills and relative independence and
self-reliance. All the villages expressed the importance of institutions for poverty reduction, however it was
noted that institutions have not played any significant role in their lives and livelihoods. Villagers
participated in ranking institutions and creating favorable criteria for collaborating with institutions for
growth and prosperity. For example, in Thanga Omar Gueye, a semi-structured interview with a group of
women revealed the following as favorable criteria for working with institutions. They should:
*   know the reality of the communities
*   not look down on the poor
*   be very honest and open
*   listen to the voices of all the poor, and not play favorites
*   be dependable and accountable to the community
*   not have a political agenda
*   be very sensitive to women's needs.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes based on the following
quantitative and qualitative indicators:
Quantitative:
*   Controlling one's immediate environment: homes repaired, walls from local materials, number of
concrete/mud homes, number of radios, kind of furniture
*   Number of children in primary school
*   Number of regular attendees in adult literacy classes
*   Sustained anti-malarial program at the village level with regular sessions each month
*   Regular vaccination program for small children and pregnant women
*   Number of men trained in income-generation activities
*   Number of small enterprises resulting from training and small loans
- 32 -



*   Number of villages or households reporting decline in the number of livestock thefts due to new
strategies for increased village security
*   Sustained number of young men remaining resident in the village throughout the year as opposed to
out-migration for income opportunities.
Qualitative:
*   Local morality, sustained low level of village violence, whether among men, against children, or
against women or among women
*   Increased and sustained home hygiene, increased awareness of disease spread through animal
manure, spoiled food, and poor sanitation.
*   Concurrence of men and women on expressed needs
*   Presence of non-project related income-generating activities (offshoots of project activity, resulting
from increased knowledge)
*   Consistent attendance in training activities
*   Sustained participation across residential and ethnic lines.
Indicators for Institutional Performance at the local level:
Institutions:
-   have to target rural areas where access to credit is limited and where there is sufficient demand.
s can build a sustainable village-based credit system and train communities in their operation.
*   can successfully transfer business know how, small technology and a local model for supply and
marketing. They should make sure that at least 3% of the project costs be devoted to social
awareness campaigns using local medium of communication.
* for indicators of success, annual or semi-annual financial audits, technical reviews, and supervision
missions must be conducted.
*   at least for credit programs, institutions must make sure that villagers including women, be part of
the credit committee. They will then be responsible for loan appraisal, selection of loan recipients,
setting loans amounts, determining collateral and repayment requirements, and defining and
enforcing sanctions for late payment or default
*   should maintained regularly all receipts
*   should successfully mediate organizational conflicts and harmonize differing points of view
*   should develop village action plans which reflect wide participation, and create a consensus on
what the villagers want to achieve next
*   should agree on priorities which are executed according to plan.
- 33 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The EA recommends that all sub-projects (and eventually major projects) be subject to EA prior to their
funding by the SDF. This is consistent with Bank policy for financial intermediary lending. This process is
chosen to secure commitment and compliance of beneficiaries with national and Bank policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
I. Sustainability:
The key factors critical to the sustainability issue are: (a) capacity building at all levels; (b) identification
and participation of beneficiaries; (c) partnership and collaboration of stakeholders; and (d) quality of
sub-projects. Furthermore, enabling beneficiary organizations to sub-contract with service providers with
the aim of empowering the poor to identify, plan and implement their own project, is crucial for
sustainability.
The APL option should promote long-term sustainability as the second phase will build on the first for
expanding and consolidating achievements. By phase two of the project, the SDF will have started
mobilizing funding for poverty alleviation from other donors and the private sector, including its operating
costs. It is anticipated that the SDF will become an autonomous like a foundation institution, and address
poverty issues at the community level and seek long-term funding to build permanent endowments. It will
address locally defined problems, thereby facilitating local participation and ownership, eventually leading
to sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
CBOs, NGOs, and pnrvate firms               M         TA to be provided by the SDF
lack technical capacity to implement
the program
- 34 -



From Components to Outputs
Weak coordination among all                 M         Enhancement of the role of the national
stakeholders                                          committee in coordinating the different existing
social funds for poverty alleviation
Establishment of an autonomous SDF
Management Unit operating on the basis of the
following principles: transparency, simplicity,
and flexibility
(The existence of clear policies and
procedures, transparent management,
stakeholder participation, and timely
financial reporting should allow for
good coordination.)
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Trhe following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
3   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the initial deposit;
3   the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and SFMA;
*   the Borrower has established the accounting and financial management system for the Project
satisfactory to the Association;
*   the Borrower has appointed extemal auditors with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association and has employed them for purposes of auditing the financial statements, the Beneficiary
Grant and IGA Grant activities and the intemal controls of SFMA;
*   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
*   the Borrower has adopted the Procedures Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
*   the Borrower has appointed key personnel to SFMA with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association including a Director, an Administrative and Financial Officer, a Microfinance Officer,
a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, five Procurement Officers, an Officer in charge of
Community-Based Organizations, and has employed them all in accordance with the provisions of the
- 35 -



Project Agreement; and
* the Borrower has completed the procurement plan for the first two years of Project implementation,
satisfactory in forn and substance to the Association.
*   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SFMA and is legally binding on SFMA
in accordance with its terms; and
* the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
SFMA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SFMA in accordance with its terms.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Signing of at least three Participation Agreements with three PFIs is a condition of disbursement of the
micro-finance component.
Assurances were sought and obtained during negotiations on the following:
* The project will be implemented in accordance with the Implementation Manual and any change to the
manual will be subject to agreement with IDA.
* A PPA will be developed in each selected village/community before the identification of any
sub-project.
* 57 Local Development Plans will be developed by the end of the project first phase.
*   The first beneficiary assessment report will be submitted by September 30, 2001.
* The results of the Household Budget Survey and the associated poverty profile and map of the country
will be submitted by May 31, 2001.
* The Borrower and IDA will conduct a mid-term review of project implementation eighteen months after
the Effective Date.
*   The Borrower will annually submit to IDA for review an annual progress report and work program
planned for the following year.
*   The project staff will at all times have qualifications commensurate with their duties and any change in
key staff (Director, high-level staff in charge of financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
Micro-finance component, social services and infrastructure component, procurement specialists, and
staff in charge of the regional Units) will be subject to IDA agreement.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
M 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 36 -



The manual of procedures including the project implementation and procurement plans were reviewed at
negotiations and will be finalized before credit effectiveness. The Social Fund Management Association
(SFMA) was created and registered under the national Law as an autonomous agency. The SFMA is the
implementation Agency of the Social Fund Project. Its staff is being recruited.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Alassanea *awara               r Nic ol s     umeBurnett                McIntire
Team Lea er                   0fSector Manager                      Country Manager
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustained economic growth  - Poverty incidence among  - GDP estimates        (Goal to Bank Mission)
and reduction in the     women and youth decrease
incidence of poverty.
"The over-arching objective - Improvement of basic  Poverty Profile          Successful development and
of the 1997 CAS is to    human development         Surveys on living conditions implementation of sector
reduce the incidence of  outcome indicators                                  strategies and
poverty and create gainful                                                  implementation of the
employment, especially for                                                   National Program for
youth."                                                                      Poverty Alleviation (NPPA)
Program Purpose:         End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:        (from Purpose to Goal)
Poor communities         1.1  Integration of target  1.1 Representative survey  Economic growth is broad
effectively manage their    communities into different  of economic mix and budget based.
own development resources economic process areas.    of poor community
and economic and social                            development plans.
services with equal
participation of vulnerable
groups.
1.2  Increase in the     1.2 Ibid .                Government commitment to
budgets allocated/public                           empower CBOs and
works to the target                                contract with NGOs.
communities based on their
set development agenda.
1.3  Increase in         1.3  Community
community development    awareness survey.
projects completed in
targeted communities and
according to local
development plans.
1.4   A 10% increase of   1.4  Community
vulnerable groups involved  involvement assessment and
in the decision making   gender analysis (against the
process in targeted      May 2000 baseline social
communities.             assessment).
1.5  The % of projects
specifically related to
women and youth needs.
1.6 The % of vulnerable
members with leadership
positions or formally
representing local society.
-38 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development      Outcome I Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:              Indicators:
The poorest tested       1. At least 75% of sub-                            - Monitoring system is in
communities of Senegal    projects funded by the                            place and performing (data
effectively improve their    Social Fund achieve their                     is collected and analyzed on
conditions by using the  intended results.                                 time)
Social I)evelopment Fund
resources in priority
development areas with
participation of vulnerable
groups
(prioritize, plan, implement)
2. At least 75% of test  2. Ibid
communities make
development decisions
based on their own local
development plan.
3. About 50% of the most 3. Social assessment/
vulnerable groups within the representative survey
communities aware of the
final results of the
sub-project implementation
and are satisfied with the
decision making.
4. Community Survey
5. PPAs
-39 -



Hierarc o   Objctves            loticator LoIoIg&Eauton                        Ciia   supin
Output from each         Output Indicators:         Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Basic social services    1.1. 300 communities    1.1. Social Fund Review   CBOs, NGOs, and private
and infrastructure financed  requesting sub-projects  of sub-project proposals    frms have technical
by the Social Fund, are   complying with SDF                                  capacity to implement the
demanded by tested       funding criteria.                                    program
communities.              1.2. At least 75% of the   1.2  Grant records
projects funded and
completed.
1.3. At least 2/3 of
projects funded are not in
physical infrastructure.
1.4. At least 75% of the
funded projects include
IEC with HIV/AIDS and
STDs modules delivered.
2. The ability of the poor   2.1    At least 50% of  2.1. Micro-credit criteria
and vulnerable within the    vulnerable groups (CBOs)  review of TA recipients.
target communities to    receiving TA under the
access credit and to seize    project meet the
income generating         micro-finance
opportunities is increased   institution-credit criteria.
2.2. At least 75% of      2.2. Community Survey
beneficiaries at the
community level aware of
the information provided on
economic opportunities,
local financing possibilities,
and prices and marketing
system performance.
2.3. At least 30% of      2.3. Micro-credit records
vulnerable groups (CBOs)
accessing micro-credit.
2.4. Contracted PFIs have
achieved 75% of their target
within vulnerable groups.
-40 -



3. The capacity of the   3. 1. At least 75% of test   3. 1. Community Survey.
CBOs to manage their own  community members ( in the
economic development and  vulnerable groups) are
satisfy their socio-economic aware of information flow
needs is improved.       between communities.
3.2. Social Fund Sub-
3.2. Some 75% of       Project design and
projects formulated and    Implementation Records.
implemented by the CBOs
(trained under the project)
which reflect criteria of
sound design and are
implemented within the
constructs of the project.
3.3. Social Fund review
3.3. About 90% of       of implementation of
NGOs/private firms       sub-projects and
contracted by CBO follow   involvement of NGOs.
transparent procedures.
3.4. Community Survey.
3.4. About 75% of test
communities understand the
relationship of the NGOs to
the project deliverables.
3.5 75% of trained
communities in GMT have
operational and structured
committees and are capable
of mobilizing additional
resources.
-41 -



4. Vulnerable groups and   4.0 Poverty level of
tested communities are  beneficiary communities is
efficiently reached and  improved by an index
serviced by their demand   higher than the basic. The
based on the Social     development and
Development Fund.       measurement of the changes
will be defined in the
framework of the PPA.
4.1. About 90% of test   4.1. Internal Records of the
communities satisfied with  Social Fund.
the services of the Social
Development Fund and feel
it is equitable and
transparent.
4.2. About 90% of       4.2. Beneficiary
vulnerable members of   assessment through Results
eligible test communities are of Households Surveys.
aware of the objectives of
the Social Development
Fund.
4.3. Communities are     4.3. Social Fund
targeted by the Social Fund Reports.
based on the data provided
by poverty monitoring.
4.4. PPAs are conducted
in all test communities.  4.4. Review of Social
4.5. 3 Annual poverty-   Fund targeting against
alleviation reports     poverty-monitoring report
published.
4.6. Database on poverty
conditions.
4.7. One database for
each test community on
price, marketing systems
performance, financial
institutions, and potential
contractors.
42 -



Kay Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                         Outputs)
1. Bas-ic Social Services and $12.35 m           Beneficiary assessment    Good coordination among
Community Infrastructure                                                   all stakeholders
2. Access to Micro-finance  $19.80 m
* Access Micro-finance
Services
* Support for Capacity
Building of
Microfinance
Institutions
3. Vulnerable Groups and
CBOs Capacity Building                                                     The existence of clear
* Institutional        $3.54 m                  Project reporting        policies and procedures,
Development                                                           transparent management,
* Capacity Building and                                                  stakeholders participation,
Training                                                              timely financial reporting
and should allow good
coordination.
4. Social Fund           $9.80 m
Management
* Poverty strategy and
monitoring
* PIU
-43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Objectives of the Project
The Government of Senegal has developed a framework for poverty reduction in the form of the
Programme de Lutte Contre la Pauvrete (PLP). The Social Development Fund Program (SDFP) has
been conceived within this framework to ensure that its efforts to reduce poverty in Senegal are part of
the country's long-term poverty strategy. The SDFP aims at empowering the poor in order to give
them increased access to resources and the ability to maintain resources through their own
organizations in a sustainable manner. The SDFP will support, as part of the Govemment's program
for poverty reduction (PLP), four main components:
1.    Basic Community Services and Infrastructure/Equipment: This component will help
improve access to social services and infrastructure to poor communities in the targeted poorest
urban areas and rural villages. Communities will be empowered through self-management of
micro-projects.
2.     Micro-finance: This component will help increase access to financial services by poor
populations and support existing Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) and Savings and Credit
Associations (SCAs) in expanding their target market to vulnerable groups.
3.     Capacity Building for Community Based Organizations (CBOs) of the poor and vulnerable to
manage their own local development and initiatives so that they become a key catalyst of sustainable
grassroots development. Support will be given to CBOs and organized groups of vulnerable
populations in targeted areas in two major domains: (i) institutional development, and (ii) human
resource capacity-building of CBOs.
4.     Poverty Management Systems Development: This component of the SDFP will aim at
improving the poverty management capacity of Senegal, both under this project and with regard to
poverty efforts at large.
Phasing. The project will be carried out in 3 phases. Phase 1 will be for three years and will focus on:
(i) setting up and operationalizing the structure needed for the project to take off, (ii) sensitizing the
beneficiaries about the project; and (iii) testing the structure through small-scale operations designed to
incorporate a leaming process. Phase 2 will scale up the project components in other selected regions
that are not supported by other social funds, in order to reach all the poorest areas. Phase 3 will aim to
fine-tune the operational mechanism of the present SDF, harmonize this SDF mechanism with those
supported in other regions by other donors, and at increase the target groups reached, and eventually
explore options to enable project closure while maintaining sustainable structures to continue meeting
expressed needs. The project emphasizes strong but gradual involvement of local government
structures, from phase I to phase 3 of the project. It is envisaged that by this time, the
capacity-building objective of the project will result in greater participation of local vulnerable groups
in local govemment decisions, and that local development plans will better reflect the needs of the poor.
Capacity building for local govemment is a specific objective of the on-going PNIR project and hence
is not targeted by this project.
Target Zones. The project targets the areas with the poorest communities in both urban and rural sectors.
-44 -



A country-wide poverty mapping exercise was conducted based on criteria such as geographical isolation,
access to basic social services, degree of organized activity, and population size. For the first phase of the
SDFP, the selection of Communautes Ruralesis based on criteria such as (i) the extent of poverty; (ii)
extent and nature of donor interventions; (iii) primary productive activity. The urban communes chosen
for the project are important focus points for the targeted rural regions. Based on weighted criteria, the 320
Comrniunautes Rurales of the country were scored and ranked between 0 (the worse off) and 500 (the best
off). A threshold of 200 was used to select the poor communities. Under this threshold are the 57 poorer
Communautes Rurales representing 18% of the total, and comprising more than 3,500 villages (average of
65 villages each), with a total of 570,000 habitants located in the Departments of Linguere, Kebemer, and
Louga (Louga region), Kaffrine (Kaolack region), Kolda and Velingara (Kolda Region) and Foundiougne
(Fatick region). The five poor urban communities selected are: Linguere (Louga region), Kongheul
(Kaolack region), Velingara (Kolda region), Foundiougne (Fatick region), and Guinaw Rail (Dakar region).
Details on the methodology are provided in Annex 13.
Direct targeting in Components 1&3. In these two complementary projects components, the
interventions will target specific beneficiary sub-groups. As reflected in the social assessment study
(Annex 11), often the most needy sub-groups live not only in small villages, but also in large, more
heterogeneous villages or in urban areas. The principle here is to target the poorest and the most
vulnerable comrnmunities within the selected urban communes or communautes rurales(see Annex 13).
A Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) (see Annex 14) will be conducted in the targeted areas. The
PPAs will provide a thorough, contextual understanding of the qualitative aspects of poverty at the
community level, and will help identify marginalized sub-groups. The immediate objective of the PPA
will be to select the limited number of the poorest villages and quarters within the above mentioned 57
Communautes Rurales and 5 Communes. Due to the test nature of the first phase, the number of
communities involved will be limited to 450, or up to 15% of the total target. The long term aim of the
PPA is to: empower local communities to conduct needs assessments through training of trainers at the
community level (communauts rurales and communes); design local development plans that reflect the
concems and priorities of vulnerable sub-groups in targeted villages, communautes rurales and
communes; establish project selection criteria (for urban and rural projects) based on priority needs of
vulnerable groups as reflected in the PPAs; and serve as a qualitative complement to the quantitative
poverty baseline data, for project monitoring and evaluation. Through the PPA, a needs assessment
and a local development plan outlining priority projects will be developed and which will be fed into an
integrated plan. The methodology for the PPA is detailed in annex 13.
Indirect Targeting in Component 2: This component 2 for extending micro-finance services to poor
groups and individuals will use the indirect targeting methodology. Results from the beneficiary
assessment and the economic assessment suggest that the target market of the PFI is a mix of: (i)
female clients; (ii) poorest segments of the population; (iii) geographic focus on rural areas; (iv)
micro-entrepreneurs; and (v) potential micro-entrepreneurs needing financial services and training to
start a business. Indirect targeting of their clients by the PFI involves: (i) design of products and
services attractive to the specific target market; and (ii) self-selection of the clients by virtue of interest
in the type of financial products and services offered by the PFI. The project will support PFIs to reach
new segments of the target market (poor clients), as well as facilitate the creation and management of
grassroots SCAs which can be building blocks for linkages with licensed PFls. To be relevant and
attractive to the poor especially women, the design of financial products and services offered by the
PFIs might include: (i) small-size loans; (ii) interest rates sufficient to cover lending costs and
discourage wealthier clients; (iii) flexible repayment schedules that fit the activities being financed; and
(iv) appropriate loan guarantees, such as solidarity groups, and collateral substitutes such as animals
and jewelry.
-45 -



Component 2 will be implemented in the same geographic areas as components 1 and 3. However,
specific beneficiary sub-groups will not be directly targeted, nor will specific activities be given
preference, except for groups identified by the PPA as being too far from the reach of any PFI. These
specific latter groups will be identified through the PPA process and will receive direct support to
develop an IGA and to create a SCA to collect the IGA revenues. The approach taken will serve to
develop poor areas and to facilitate not only linkages with licensed PFIs but also the creation and
management of grassroots SCAs in areas where no PFIs are present. The project will also provide
capacity-building support to PFIs through training and other activities.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.35 million
Access to basic social services and community infrastructure by poor population
Objective and strategy. The objective of this component is to improve the access of vulnerable groups
and communities in the targeted poorest urban and rural areas to basic social services. This
component will complement the existing national poverty-alleviation programs in the social sectors.
The institutional arrangements and procedures are designed to avoid duplication with these programs.
The strategy is to empower communities by facilitating and enabling them to self-manage the activities
which improve access to and use of these services. Emphasis will be placed on the process of
improving access to a service rather than the provision of the service. Thus, the procedure for
implementation of this component (as detailed in the operations manual) will put primary weight on
establishing sustainable processes for increasing both community and individual capacity to access and
the use of basic social services. As such, any provision of service, such as the building of some
infrastructure, will be regarded as an input to achieve the objective of improving the access of and its
use by target groups.
Implementation. Individual proposals will not be eligible for funding. Targeted communities -- as a
group -- will identify and prioritize their needs and interests. Through the PPA process, each targeted
community will receive support from the project (including training of groups and individuals) to
develop a participatory action plan translated into a micro-project for funding. Each group will be
responsible for the formulation, submission, execution, supervision, and evaluation of its micro-project,
including the management of the funds granted by the agency to co-finance the micro-project, and the
procurement of goods, works, and/or services included in the micro-project, such as contracts with
NGOs and specialized firms or consultants to help the community implement the micro-project.
Transfers to communities' bank accounts will be made in trenches based on the progress of services
rendered. When necessary, the community will contract parts of the project to the private sector or
NGOs to carry out the procurement process. The procedures are outlined in the Operational Manual.
The Social Development Grant (SDG) will ensure that adequate training and support are given to
beneficiaries to allow them to gain maximum experience. This strategy is expected to result in better
ownership of the sub-project by the communities and better accountability for the contracted service or
goods provided to the community. This component is composed of 2 sub-components.
(i)       Sub-component 1.1: Access to basic community social services (US$ 4,88 million).
The poverty assessments (social and economic) conducted during the preparation phase of this project
highlights that access to basic social services and their use is an important indicator of the poor's
perception of their own poverty. A crucial difference between poor and better-off groups is that the
-46 -



latter have better access to and use of social services (such as health, education, agricultural extension,
markets, telecommunications, and new technology) both state-owned and private. The objective of this
sub-component is to improve the access to and use of basic social services for targeted poor groups.
This will be approached from the perspective of supply and demand. From the demand perspective, the
project will support communities' sub-projects which aim at developing structures that improve the
community's access to and use of basic social services. For example: a micro-project promoting the
use of a new technology in rural areas to preserve milk will make the transportation of milk more
feasible for market sale; often, the infrastructure of the market exists in villages, but the lack of
knowledge and technology prevents communities from fully utilizing it. On the supply side, the project
will improve the environment within the targeted areas to attract providers of basic social services. For
example by funding a micro-project aiming at implementing a youth-run IEC campaign, or the
promotion of a youth theater group over the local radio. The implementation of activities within this
sub-component has the objective of improving the ability of poor communities to think about and
prepare their sub-project. Infrastructure financed under micro-projects of this sub-component will cost
a maximum of 20 % of the total micro-project cost, and must be a necessary input to improving access
to a basic social service. Micro-project activities eligible for funding will not be substitutes for national
programs. It is expected that they will concentrate on areas such as improved techniques for storing and
marketing of agricultural produce, support of AIDS victims, community-based radios, ECD, and use of
impregnated mosquito nets. A list outlining prioritized as well as a negative list of non-fundable
activities will be included in the Operation Manual. The Social development Grant will provide 100 %
grants.
Phase 1. The objectives of the first phase are: (i) setting up the institutional system in the targeted
regions; (ii) setting up the monitoring and evaluation system for the component; (iii) implementing
Participatory Poverty Assessments in the targeted communities; (iv) selecting a limited number of
communities for testing -- about 400 villages/urban quarters; (v) disseminating the implementation
tools to test communities including the specific Operation Manual, eligibility criteria for the
micro-projects, and the model of the submission form for a micro-project; (vi) training the test
communities in micro-project management, including financial management and management of
community-based procurement; (vii) setting up the institutional system to appraise the micro-projects,
(viii) testing the tools and procedures in selected communities -- i.e., collecting communities' proposals
for micro-projects, appraising their eligibility, approving, financing, and supervising their
micro-projects; (ix) execution of about 400 micro-projects by the test communities (the remaining
being carried out under sub-component 1.2); (x) evaluating the test -- i.e., the micro-projects'
performance for inputs, processes, and outputs/outcomes; (xi) learning lessons and preparing for scale
up and; (xii) building capacities in other communities in the targeted regions with a view to further
scale up in phase 2.
Phase 2. The objectives for the second phase are scaling up the implementation of the SDG through:
(i) implementation of the PPA to all targeted communities in other regions where other donors are not
currently implementing similar activities (about 3,150 communities); (ii) supporting micro-projects in
50% of the communities (iii) monitoring and evaluating the scale-up activities of the IDA-financed
project and of Social Funds financed by other donors; and (iv) leam lessons for phase 3. At the end of
this phase it is expected that at least 50% (about 1,600) of the targeted communities (i.e., with a
poverty score below 200 according to criteria used for the initial targeting) have implemented at least
one micro-project and that all these micro-projects have been evaluated and their lessons drawn.
Phase 3. For the third phase, the objectives are: (i) fine tuning of implementation of IDA-financed
SDG on the basis of lessons learned at the end of phase 2; (ii) harmonization of procedures with other
-47 -



donors based on M&E in order to shift from the project approach (donor-based) to the program
approach (Govemment based); (iii) corrections in view of long- term sustainability; and (iv)
implementation of the program in the remaining targeted villages. At the end of this phase it is
expected that at least 90% of the targeted communities (i.e., with a poverty score below 200 according
to criteria used for the initial targeting) have successfully implemented at least one micro-project.
(ii)      Sub-component 1.2: Basic community infrastructure/equipment (US$ 7,47 million).
The objective of this sub-component is to finance demand-driven community micro-projects for the
implementation of basic social infrastructure in the conmmunity. The PPA will help assess that the
proposed micro-project is based on the priorities and needs of the vulnerable sub-groups. The Social
Development Grant will provide grants up to 95% of the cost of a micro-project. This sub-component
aims to test community-based mechanisms for the provision of infrastructure which is generally
supplied by sector programs (many of them IDA-financed) through more centrally based approaches.
To avoid duplication with these sector programs, this component will not fund infrastructure in villages
where the building of the infrastructure is already covered by other Bank/donor projects such as the
Rural National Infrastructure Project, the Quality Education for All Project, or the Health Sector
Development Program. However, the SDG will fund communities' micro-projects which increase the
effectiveness and use of that infrastructure. For example if a school is built by the QEFA project, the
SDG could provide the community to construct of a canteen attached to the school to make it more
accessible to children from villages further away who may not have a place to eat near the school.
Similarly, the SDG could improve the transportation infrastructure between a remote group of villages
and an existing school. Specific criteria will be applied to ensure that infrastructure projects funded by
the SDG will serve the intended end and that it will benefit the poorest groups. The set of criteria will
also include elements to ensure harmonization with other sectoral projects (school mapping in case
school construction or health mapping in case of building health post). These criteria have been
expanded in the Operations Manual. Micro-projects for the construction of schools or health post will
require the clearance of the regional administration of the relevant sector to ensure consistency of the
proposed infrastructure with the School Map or the Health Map.
Phase 1. Activities during the first phase of sub-component 2 will be similar to these of the
sub-component 1, but with the following differences: (i) informnation to communities will include
standard design and technical specifications, and specific criteria of eligibility for each type of
infrastructure; (ii) support to communities will focus on identifying/confirming that infrastructure
construction is their key priority; (iii) management training of the community will include specific
training on the procurement and supervision of works; (iv) number of demand-driven community
sub-projects for infrastructure will be limited to 150 micro-projects; (v) monitoring and evaluation of
the test will include comparative evaluation with similar infrastructure built under sectoral projects
through more conventional procurement procedures; and (vi) preparation of the scaling up in phase 2
will include discussions with parallel sectoral projects in health, education, or rural development to
share the knowledge provided through the test and envisage possible integration of the
community-based approach with the sectoral projects/programs.
Phase 2. During this phase, the project will perform a combination of the test on a larger scale or in
different contexts with a view to obtain a demand-driven community-based delivery mechanism being
gradually adopted in other sector projects areas where the community-based approach is successful.
During this phase, a continuous monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the community-based
approach compared to the administration-based approach of sectoral investment programs will inform
all sectors of the various approaches, and help build a consensus to the most suitable approach for the
future. At the end of the second phase, based on the comparative evaluation, a decision will be taken
-48 -



by each Ministry conceming the adoption of the community-based approach in its current investment
program.
Phase 3. This phase will aim to harmonize of the approaches between the community-based approach
developed under this project and those of other sectoral investment programs.
Project Component 2 - US$19.79 million
Access to Micro-finance Services by Poorest Communities. (IDA US$4,31M)
Objectives. The primary objective of the micro-finance component is to extend financial services to
the poorest communities. This component will also focus on social intermediation, i.e., building the
social capital and skills that facilitate the access of poor individuals to the financial system. That will
ultimately lead to greater financial intermediation, i.e., facilitate the flow of funds between savers and
borrowers.
Under the micro-finance component, the project will: (i) facilitate access to micro-finance services by
vulnerable groups and individuals through linkages with established PFIs; (ii) facilitate the creation of
grassroots SCAs as well as financing income-generating activities by the poorest CBOs; and (iii)
provide capacity-building support to micro-finance intermediaries. Analysis from the Social
Assessment and Micro-Credit Needs Assessment Study (Appendix 11) shows that the poor in remote
rural areas lack access to financial services. In addition, there is a high demand for income-generation
activities by the poor, particularly women and youth. Women emphasized that additional income is
most needed during the rainy season when food supplies are at their lowest. At the same time, the
agricultural work load, both for subsistence agriculture and cash cropping is at its highest leaving little
time for other activities. Villagers, especially women, have a lighter work load in the dry season when
income-generating activities could be successfully implemented. Thus, care must be taken to ensure
that income-generation projects are adequately designed and timed to generate additional household
income. Similarly, the seasonal nature of the ability to save and the demand for credit must be taken
into account.
Scope. This component will support access to micro-finance services in regions and departments
targeted under component I on the basis of poverty criteria, in order to develop synergies between the
components I and 2. Activities will complement micro-finance programs that other donors are
undertaking in other regions. The European Union (EU) is currently operating in the regions of
St-Louis and Dakar. UNDP is providing support to PFIs in the Departments of Kedougou, Bambey,
and Dakar. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is focusing its interventions in
the Ziguinchor region and the Department of Kolda, while USAID has a micro-finance project in the
regions of Tambacounda, Kolda, Ziguinchor, Thies, and Dakar (Pikine and Rufisque). In addition, the
African Development Bank (AfDB) is planning to support large PFIs such as Credit Mutuel,
PAMECAS, and ACEP in the regions of Thies, Diourbel and Tambacounda.
Strategy and Implementation. A defining feature of the poorest and vulnerable sections of Senegalese
society is their lack of access to financial services. Despite the large number of institutions and programs
in micro-finance (175 savings and credit cooperatives, 214 SCAs, and six non-cooperative organizations
registered with the Ministry of Finance as of June 2000) the poorest communities still lack access even to
micro-finance services. The reasons include geographic isolation, lack of roads and other basic
infrastructure, as well as difficulties in meeting PFIs' membership requirements. There are also a number
of constraints faced by PFIs in their attempt to reach the poorest communities, including (a) inadequacy of
-49 -



existing financial products and services for the poorest; (b) low managerial capacity of a large number of
PFIs, particularly SCAs; (c) low skills of PFI staff, and (d) weak internal control. Most PFIs in Senegal
are member-based, mutualist organizations that mobilize savings and do not lack funds to on-lend to their
clients. But they have major weaknesses in their retailing and managerial capacities to expand their
outreach on a sustainable basis. Weaknesses have also been identified in the areas of governance, internal
control, managing growth, financial and information management, as well as quality of staff, all of which
call for assistance in capacity building.
The strategy adopted will depend on the state of the micro-finance industry in the targeted regions.
(a)    In communities where PFIs are present and active, sufficiently near to targeted poor communities,
and willing to participate in the project, the Social Development Credit (SDC) will: (i) provide support to
PFIs to extend or adapt their financial products to individuals or groups in poor communities. The SDC
will support micro-finance activities through a matching grant mechanism (10 % of the cost to be borne by
the PFI) that will cover the costs of outreach and providing information to targeted groups and communities
by PFIs, including training in establishing and managing solidarity groups in association with an PFI.
Partner PFIs will use their own funds to provide loans to individuals and groups that will have received
appropriate training suchas grassroots Management Training (GMT) to become viable micro-finance
clients (see Component 3 for description of GMT); (ii) provide support to PFIs for other capacity-building
activities to help partner PFIs become stronger institutions and achieve long-term sustainability and
continue to provide financial services to the poorest communities. Capacity-building support will also be
provided on a matching grant basis to licensed PFIs. Activities to be financed on a demand-driven and
performance-oriented basis will include but not be limited to acquisition of management information system
(MIS), accounting software, and office expansion and rehabilitation.
(b)    In communities which are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, the micro-finance component
will facilitate the provision of training, capacity building, and equipment (if necessary) for strengthening of
the community's SCA that could finance individual IGAs. The SCA can apply for funding for a building,
safe, and other needed equipment.
(c)    In poorest communities which are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs and where it is urgent
to build social intermediation skills, the component will provide financing on a matching grant basis for
group IGAs. The community (or a group within it) will propose an IGA, possibly promoted through an
NGO, supported by a business plan, and a commitment to provide at least 10% of the cost, of which at
least 5% in cash. Upon approval of the activity plan, the micro-finance component will provide training,
capacity building, and equipment (if necessary) for the creation of the group's SCA or village bank (as in
part b), which will proceed to mobilize the required cash and in-kind contributions to start the IGA, and to
open an account in a licensed financial intermediary or PFI. Normally, an implementing agency, such as an
NGO, will be contracted to provide for technical assistance to the group in managing the IGA and meeting
its obligations, as well as for reporting to SDC, the cost of which may be borne either by the implementing
agency as promoter or by SDC. If no financial intermediary is sufficiently near or willing to participate,
the implementing agency will also handle the group's financial transactions. The group will sign an
agreement with the SDC, the financial intermediary and/or the NGO to recover the cost of the IGA
investment. The PFI and or NGO will be responsible for loan monitoring and recovery against a fee added
to the loan amount and set high enough to provide adequate incentive for loan monitoring and collection.
Community groups will be responsible for paying the fee to the financial intermediary as well as
negotiating a decent interest rate to be paid on their deposits. Details of this mechanism are provided in
Annex 16.
- 50 -



Selection of PFIs and Other Partners
The selection of suitable PFIs/SCAs and other financial partners, such as micro-finance specialized NGOs,
will be performed by the Micro-finance Unit of the Social Fund Agency on the basis of eligibility criteria
related to: (i) the PFI's current vision, business plan with monitorable benchmarks, objectives, and strategy
including the promotion of new financial products and services to better reach the poor target market; (ii)
the PFI's current human resources; (iii) current programs being implemented; (iv) potential for expansion;
(v) financial viability as well as the organization's capacity to achieve significant scale and outreach, as
well as; (vi) identification of the capacity-building needs of the PFI in order to implement its new vision
and business plan.
The selection process will include: (i) broad dissemination of the rules of the game detailed in the Manual
of' Procedures for Micro-finance (MP-PFI); (ii) issuance of a request for expression of interest; (iii)
assessment of the PFI/SCA having expressed interest to build a short list; (iv) request for proposing a
sub-project to a short list of PFIs; (v) evaluation of the sub-project by a specialized expert and adjustment
of'the proposal; and (vi) agreements between the PFI and the Agency.
The agreement will include: (a) the PFI's business plan to better reach the poorer segment of its target
market, and (b) resources provided by the Agency to finance the capacity-building program of the PFI
needed for the success of the business plan. These resources can cover the costs of outreach and providing
information to targeted groups and communities by PFIs, including training in establishing and managing
solidarity groups in association with an PFI, as well as other capacity-building activities, such as office
expansion, rehabilitation, accounting software, and the installation of a rigorous MIS.
Selection of partner PFIs will be based on the following criteria:
be legally registered with the Senegalese authorities as a provider of micro-finance services
*      be in operation for at least a year
-      be committed to deposit mobilization
-      have a membership which 30% are women
-      have at least 3000 clients
i      have a five-year strategic plan for achieving operational self-sufficiency and build a strong
micro-finance program
Contractual Arrangements
The micro-finance strategy outlined above will be implemented under the following contractual
arrangements. One contracting approach will link the SDF Unit and selected existing PFIs/SCAs. A
second possible contracting arrangement will link three partners: (i) the SDF Unit; (ii) selected existing
PFIs/SCAs, and (iii) specialized consulting firms to provide capacity-building services. For the activities
related to the financing of group IGAs, the third possible contracting arrangement will link: (i) the SDF
unit; (ii) CBOs; (iii) the implementing agency/NGO; and/or (iv) the licensed financial intermediary.
Implementation of this component will be govemed by a specific Manual of Procedures for IMF (MP-IMF)
including selection criteria, standard form of proposal and contract, and criteria for tranche disbursement
on the basis of performance reports and performance objectives. Submission of a draft of this Manual was
a condition of negotiation of the IDA credit; submission of the final version of the Manual, approved by the
authorities and acceptable to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness.
Objectives to be Achieved under the Different Phases of the Project
- 51 -



Phase 1. The objectives to be achieved under this three-year phase are the following:
(a)    Setting up the micro-finance system promoted by the project by: (i) disseminating the Manual of
procedures (MP-PFI) to all PFIs and CBOs; (ii) assessing and classifying, on one hand, the communities
located in areas where PFIs are near the targeted poor communities and willing to participate in the project,
and on the other hand, the communities that are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, which will be
supported to create or strengthen their SCAs to fund individual IGAs, as well as the poorest communities
where group IGAs can be financed; (iii) contracting the services of a technical institution specialized in
micro-finance to provide technical assistance to the Agency and the PFIs; and (iv) selecting/hiring
implementing agencies for the implementation of the contracting approach for the group IGAs.
(b)    Testing the support to build PFIs/SCAs' capacity to better reach the poor. The Agency will:
(i) select/contract consultants for technical assistance; (ii) select/contract with a limited number of
PFIs/SCAs -- two or three per region -- in order to test the system, according to procedures detailed in the
Operation Manual; (iii) supervise the new operations of the test-PFI according to contracts; (iv) evaluate
the test by verifying that performance objectives are reached by the PFIs; (v) continuously assess the
specific needs of the poorest groups, and the level of relevance of the financial products and services
compared to the needs; (vi) provide training to communities (or groups and individuals within them) for
preparing business plans to present to PFIs or other financial institutions for appraisal and possible
financing; and (vii) evaluate the approach to draw lessons for scaling up in phase 2. In this phase 1 of the
project, PFI capacity building assistance will be limited to those that are partners in the program, to
improve their effectiveness in implementation. In later phases of the project, this assistance could be
expanded to include other PFIs, based on the capacity of SDC staff to appraise and monitor performance of
PFIs according to agreed benchmarks. At the end of the first phase, it is expected that the number of poor
beneficiaries of the test PFI will have doubled.
(c)    Testing the IGA system with a limited number of CBOs. A limited pilot-test will be performed in
comnmuniities that are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, and which will qualify for financing of
group IGAs and start micro-finance activities by: (i) identifying, through the PPAs process, the interested
communities to test the approach; (ii) disseminating to the test communities the specific module of the
Operational Manual; (iii) providing training to the selected communities for the preparation of their IGA
and the creation of the SCA; (iv) providing grant assistance to the CBOs for the implementation of the
IGAs; (v) supporting CBOs for the contracting of services from a suitable PFI/NGO to monitor the IGA
revenues and the new SCA development; (vi) monitoring and evaluating the test; and (vii) drawing lessons
and disseminating them for scaling up in second phase. At the end of the test, the system will be refined and
expanded. At the end of the Phase I, it is expected that at least 100 CBOs (about I in every 30 targeted
villages) will have successfully implemented the approach and created a well-functioning SCA, and that the
approach will have been monitored and evaluated, and lessons drawn from the evaluation for use during
second phase.
Phase 2. The objective of this phase is two-pronged:
(a)    Scaling up the process through: (i) gradually including all PFIs in the targeted areas which are
able to meet the selection criteria; (ii) monitoring and evaluating the scaling up process and evaluating the
performance of partner PFIs; and (iii) scaling up the promotion of IGAs to all the poorest segments of the
communities in the targeted areas;
(b)    Harmonizing the micro-finance component of this project with micro-finance components of other
donor-financed projects including the impact of other donors' lines of credit.
On the basis of the information provided by the Monitoring and Evaluation process, lessons will be drawn
- 52 -



for phase 3, including how to sustain the dialogue with other social funds in order to harmonize approaches
with other donor-financed social funds.
Phase 3. This phase will focus on expanding the scale depth, and outreach of participating PFIs. and
support the introduction of innovative products such as micro-insurance. This phase will also focus on
consolidating the new CBO's village banks or SCAs and supporting their eventual graduation into licensed
PFIs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.54 million
Capacity Building for Vulnerable Groups and CBOs.
Scope, objectives, and Strategy. This component specifically targets organizations of the poor and
vulnerable such as CBOs, women's groups, youth groups, and other formal or informal arrangements
based on communality such as trade. The social assessment (Appendix I1) emphasizes the importance
of these groups with regard to the building of economic and social networks which function as safety
nets against vulnerability. The objective of the component is to enhance the capacity of such groups
with regard to participatory approaches, needs assessments, project management, institutional set-up,
and building resource networks and access to credit which are crucial in managing and raising the risk
thresholds of poor households. An important focus of the strategy to increase capacity at the
community level is the development of information sharing mechanisms, through a large range of
different technologies. For example, grpups of women having vegetable gardens could be organized to
discuss and share their experiences and improve their skills with some technical advice. This will also
provide a forum in which it will be most cost-effective and sustainable to access better technology and
services. Finally, this component will enhance the capacity of the CBOs to manage their own local
development and initiatives so that they become a key catalyst of sustainable grassroots development.
To this end, the Social Development Fund will make direct grants (100%) to CBOs and organized
groups of vulnerable populations in targeted areas.
Description and implementation. This component will aim to strengthen community-based networks
which are crucial safety nets for coping with poverty and increasing vulnerability thresholds. An
institutional development phase will cover important areas such as the establishment of operational
capacity for groups (office equipment and training centers, for example), and local networks. The
strategy for institutional strengthening will be gender-inclusive, involving gender sensitivity when
assessing capacity-building and institutional development needs, in order to ensure that the project will
actually target marginalized groups such as women and youth.
The component will also build capacity within the targeted communities by investing in human
resources for which both individuals and groups will be eligible. The capacity-building/training could be
geared either towards an income-generating activity or for general improvement of managerial and financial
capacities. More specifically, this component will focus on: (i) organizational development: group
formation and sensitization, management skills for small organizations, leadership, human resources
management, strategic planning, and local govemance; (ii) financial management: bookkeeping and
accounting, administration, disbursements, and procurement at the community level; simple contracting
procedures, contract management and supervision; and working with informal and formnal banking systems
and meeting their basic requirements; (iii) project management: participatory project design (PRA),
feasibility studies, market studies, project implementation and monitoring, and management and
maintenance of infrastructure and equipment; (iv) communication: social communication, traditional
- 53 -



systems of communication, advocacy, adult training, training of trainers, training in new information
technologies, internet, community radio, negotiation skills for community leaders, and gender sensitization;
and (v) special skills for income-generation, such as carpentry, tailoring, use of herbal medicine, marketing
produce, poultry keeping, brick laying, tractor repairs. Capacity-building activities will take into account
the literacy levels of the beneficiary groups and will tailor all materials developed, courses given, and any
hands-on experience to the capabilities of the participants. This is crucial to ensure a concrete impact of
this component in terms of it triggering better projects, broader participation, and increased access to
financial, technical, and human resources. This component will be implemented in local languages and will
prioritize the learning-by-doing approach versus the lecture approach. The Grassroots Management
Training (GMT) methodology will be used as the general training methodology. The objective of the GMT
will be to build capacities among SDF partners to strengthen the capacities of the communities to better
manage in a sustainable way, their basic services, financial needs, and income-generating activities. The
GMT methodology is detailed in Annex 17. The GMT strategy will provide training to: (i) CBO members
such as elected members of the grass-root SCA, grassroot-managers, and elected local members of
management/ maintenance committees of the basic services provided by SDF; (ii) PFI/SCA/NGO trainers;
and (iii) Agency staff.
Phase 1. During this phase, the Agency will focus on the development of the following networks: (i)
community-based networks; (ii) NGO networks dedicated to poverty reduction; and (iii) Local
Government networks for poverty reduction. At the end of the phase, the networks will have: (i) a legal
status; (ii) a management organization; (iii) regular meetings; and (iv) action plans.
The GMT will be implemented with the CBOs targeted under components I and 2, with the PFIs and
SCAs targeted under component 2, by: (i) compiling an inventory of the available trainers among the
PFIs; (ii) building of a pool of at least ten senior trainers among the PFIs (two per PFI) to strengthen their
GMT capacity through training of trainers (TOT) and create an additional supply for communities to
choose from; (iii) selection of Senior GMT experts to deliver the TOT workshops; (iv) execution of a
training needs assessment (TNA) in the selected five regions; (v) development of training materials based
on the conclusions of the TNA and including local content; (vi) development by the pool of senior trainers
of a set of trainer's manuals; (vii) training of Junior trainers, i.e., people working at the grassroots level,
either as government employees, or working for an NGO; (viii) training, follow-up and monitoring of
community leaders depending on the type of activities being undertaken by the communities and on their
identified specific needs; (ix) revision of the training material and translation in local languages to ensure
that community leaders will be able to use the training material and disseminate the messages to those who
have not been trained at the community level; and (x) training of more vulnerable groups participating in
the project. At the end of phase 1, trainers from PFIs and community leaders' capacity will have been built
up sufficiently to adopt and apply more formal business practices to better manage the infrastructure and
the micro-finance activities under the project, as well as stimulate and support the development of more
income-generating activities among grassroots populations.
At the end of phase I the following will have been accomplished in the targeted communities:
*   Several training sessions have taken place (at least one per region) for training of trainers and training
of grassroots managers;
*  Number of GMT trainers has increased in each region, (at least two trainers/PFI in each region);
*   Number of trained grassroots managers with better skills to manage their basic services, micro-credit,
and Income-generating activities has increased and;
*   New modules have been developed by the new GMT trainers and are available for wider dissemination.
Phase 2. The objectives for the second phase are: (i) scaling up the implementation of the GMT program
-54 -



in all the targeted communities in the targeted regions, and in other regions where other donors are not
currently implementing similar activities; (ii) monitoring and evaluating the scale-up activities of the GMT
program; and (iii) learn lessons for phase 3. At the end of the phase it is expected that at least 50% of the
targeted communities (with a poverty score below 200 according to criteria used for the initial targeting)
have successfully benefited from the GMT program.
Phase 3. For the third phase, the objective is fine tuning of the implementation of the GMT program on
the basis of lessons learned at the end of phase 2.
Project Component 4 - US$9.80 million
Poverty-Reduction Management System
Scope, objectives, description, and implementation. The objective of this component is to create an
efficient information management system as a part of the holistic poverty-reduction effort. Large
databases, including a poverty mapping exercise undertaken during the preparation phase of this
project, will be coordinated by one unit so that its information can be used by different organizations in
a cost-effective manner. Too often, poverty projects work separately, duplicating studies, rather than
building on the efforts of one another. This component of the SDF Project will aim at improving the
poverty management capacity of Senegal, both for this project and with regard to poverty- alleviation
efforts at large. This component is thus subdivided into two sub-components: Poverty Monitoring
Systems and the SDF Management Unit.
(i)       Sub-component 4.1: Poverty Monitoring - US$ 5,60 million. The Government of
Senegal, with the support of major donors like the World Bank, IMF, and UNDP, is preparing a
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in order to coordinate and synthesize the various poverty
efforts carried out by different donors in various regions of the country. Hitherto, there has been no
conmmon coherent strategy and plan. The Government will create under this component a Poverty
Management Information System (PMIS) for poverty data collection and analysis, based on existing
structures at the regional, departmental, and local levels. The SDF will support the implementation of
this MIS and will provide technical assistance by financing the Household budget survey and two light
surveys which will provide the baseline data and indicators of living standards measurement, along with
a poverty map for monitoring poverty during the entire life span of the project. Qualitative surveys and
Participatory Poverty Assessments (PPAs) will complement the quantitative data collection and
analysis process. The objective is that all the information generated and processed by the PMIS will be
used by all sectors (including Education, Health, and Rural Development) for the preparation of their
own development plans. The Directorate of Statistics in the Ministry of Economy and Finance will be
responsible for the implementation of this sub-component. It will also facilitate the functioning of the
network of producers and users of data. Furthermore, it will assist the Unit in charge of Poverty
Monitoring within the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the production of the annual report on
poverty.
Phase 1. The first phase will focus on: (a) the development of baseline data, and (b) the creation,
development, and operationalization of a sustainable PMIS to and (i) track poverty data; (ii) track all
data related to poverty-alleviation programs and projects, including the SDFP; (iii) provide relevant
and timely information to the Agency executing staff, the Social Fund Managing Board all Ministries
(Health, Education Rural Development), all donors, Local Govemments, and communities and
population through mass media; (c) population surveys to generate information on population
- 55 -



feed-back for input into the PMIS. At the end of the phase: (i) the information generated by the PMIS
will be regularly disseminated to all Ministries; (ii) all Ministries will use this information to prepare
their own development plans; and (iii) the Local Governments and CBOs will be regularly and
appropriately informed of the evolution of poverty in their regions.
Phase 2. During this phase, the focus will be put on: (a) the increase in cost-sharing for the PMIS by
the Government. It is expected that, at the end of phase 2, the Budget will include a specific budget line
item for the recurrent costs of the PMIS and that the costs will be supported by on a progressive basis;
(b) monitoring of the use of poverty data by producers and users at all levels (central, decentralized,
and local); (c) regularity of poverty surveys; and (d) improvement of the quality, relevance, and
timeliness of information.
Phase 3 . At the end of this phase: (a) all the recurrent costs of the global PMIS are supported by the
government budget, and (b) the quality, relevance, and timeliness of information is excellent.
(ii)     Sub-component 4.2: SDF Management Unit-US $4,20 million The Social Development
Fund Program will be managed by the Social Development Fund Management Unit (SFMU) staffed
with professionals under contract with the Agency. The FU will have two distinct functioning
sub-units. Components I and 3 will be implemented through the Communities Support Unit while
component 2 will be implemented through the Micro-finance Support Unit. Both will be staffed by
personnel with relevant skills in each area of expertise (grant vs credit). The overall implementation of
the SDFP will be coordinated by a small unit of highly qualified professionals (of whom, at least 25%
will be women) overseeing and supervising the day-to-day operations of the project. This unit will
operate on the basis of the following principles: (i) transparency of the procedures and decisions; (ii)
equity of treatment of all partners, particularly CBOs and NGOs; (iii) accountability upwards to the
Agency and downwards to the beneficiaries; and (iv) autonomy from political influence. The unit will
be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the different project components, preparation of
annual work programs and budgets, internal monitoring and contracting of extemal evaluations, and the
overall fiduciary or financial and administrative management of funds. The exact composition of the
unit was finalized during the appraisal mission and will be included in the Operations Manual.
Strategic project orientation and policy guidance will be under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Family Affairs and National Solidarity. The Monitoring Unit within the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (which manages the PLP), will have overall responsibility for the production and publication of
the national annual report on poverty, based on reports by the SFMU and other donors. The Board of
Governors of the Fund will be in charge of approving the annual plan and budget of activities proposed
by the SFMU management, approving audit reports of the project, critically examining the performance
of the SFMU, and evaluating the extent to which it is meeting its objectives of poverty alleviation.
They will also be responsible for making recommendations for corrective actions and approving
proposals. This board will meet at least on a quarterly basis. The Agency is created and registered as
an autonomous entity. Its General Operations Manual was reviewed during the negotiation of the IDA
credit and will be finalized before credit effectiveness. The recruitment of key staff of the SFMUand
the installation of a sound financial management system will be conditions of effectiveness.
Phase 1. This phase will entail: (i) creation and functioning of the institutional system; (ii)
disseminating the implementation tools of the various components; (iii) testing tools and procedures;
(iv) development and installation of the specific module of the MIS related to information on the
resources managed by the Agency; (v) management by the SFMU of all the tests carried out under
components 1 and 2; (vi) monitoring and evaluating the performance of the SMFU on the basis of
criteria included in the General Operations Manual; (vii) dissemination of information generated under
- 56 -



the present projects to Social Fund projects financed by other donors, and to other sectors involved in
poverty alleviation (Education, Health, and Rural Development); and (viii) coordination among donors.
Phase 2. During this phase, the SFMU will focus on: (i) managing the scale up of various tests carried
out during phase 1; (ii) monitoring and evaluating the performance of the project while scaling up; (iii)
carrying out the coordination with other social funds to harmonize procedures and gradually integrate
them; (iv) canying out the coordination with other programs in other sectors to integrate lessons
leamed by the Social Fund approach (community-based development) into sector programs. By end of
phase 2, the SDFMU will have started mobilizing funding for poverty alleviation from other donors and
the private sector, including for operating costs. At the end of the Phase 2, it is anticipated that the
Agency will become an institution like a foundation addressing poverty issues at the community level
and seeking long-term funding to build permanent endowments. This institution will address locally
defined problems, thereby facilitating local participation and ownership, and eventually leading to
sustainability.
Phase 3. Phase 3 will focus on: (i) fine turning implementation of the IDA financed SDF; (ii)
harmonization of procedures with other donor-financed social funds, based on M&E; and eventual
integration of social funds when the procedures are sufficiently harmonized; (iii) integration of
community-based approaches by other sectors such as Health, Education, and Rural Development; (iv)
making necessary corrections to achieve long-term sustainability.
- 57-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Local        Forein         Total
Project Cost By ComoonentiiUi:S $ m_   US                      Forign    US $Million
Basic Social Services and Community Infrastructure            6.77          5.58         12.35
Micro-finance                                                18.88          0.91         19.79
Capacity Building for Vulnerable Groups                       3.20          0.34          3.54
Poverty Management Systems                                    6.43          3.36          9.79
PPF                                                           1.05          0.00          1.05
Total Baseline Cost                                          36.33         10.19         46.52
Physical Contingencies                                                     0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                                        0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs               36.33         10.19         46.52
Total Financing Required                36.33         10.19         46.52
Lo9 7; ;0 0 7               ToFtlreign  Tol
Project Cost BLy Cawegor                  US $milion    US0 $miion      1$milion
Goods/Grants                                                    1.45           4.35          5.80
Works/Grants                                                    0.10           0.10          0.20
Services                                                        3.41           2.27          5.68
Training                                                        0.84           0.06          0.90
Micro-finance/CB                                               17.02           1.80         18.82
Subventions to CBOs                                             8.07           0.90          8.97
Operating Cost Surveys                                         4.39            0.71          5.10
PPF                                                             1.05           0.00          1.05
Total Project Costs      36.33          10.19         46.52
Total Financing Required       36.33          10.19         46.52
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 46.52 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 64.49% of total pro
- 58 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Cost-Benefit and Effectiveness Analysis
Principles
1.1    The SDF program is designed to support sub-projects identified by community-based organizations
that are expected to reduce poverty. Such sub-projects are socially justified by their explicit goals focused on
improving levels of income, particularly among women and youth, promoting access to basic infrastructure
and social services, and expanding institutional capacities self-managed organizations of the poor. The
investments and the nature and type of activities will be centered around mechanisms to enable vulnerable
groups to prioritize, plan, and implement their own sub-projects. The scope and mix of the selected
sub-projects will be determined with participatory involvement of the CBOs and various other mechanisms to
ensure the participation of excluded groups in community decision-making.
1.2.   The major types of sub-projects to be implemented will be toward enabling and strengthening the poor
and their organizations to face their economic environment and compete with other market forces in their
income-generating activities. Thus, as experience in implementing sub-projects shows, routine and classical
project analysis based on a cost-benefit framework is difficult to conduct. The applicability and acceptability
of future SDF sub-projects economic valuation is questionable in terms of resources, time, and the data base
required. This is particularly true when CBOs need to maintain a leadership and transparent role in project
identification. In addition, the true social dimension of the SDF program and the urgency of poverty
alleviation imply a logical rejection of any profit motive and financial return criteria for project selection.
1.3.   In practice, it is necessary to simplify the justification techniques. Theoretical soundness needs to be
balanced against operational constraints, human resource limitations, time constraints, and the intensity of
social demand. Such a balance between theory/constraints is accepted in the SDF economic approaches but
analytical rigor is also required. In fact, experience also shows that social sub-projects are readily justified
because of their perceived benefits. Hence, oversimplification becomes a danger when the original
cost-benefit framework and techniques are rejected as inapplicable, or socially inappropriate, since the
hypotheses of perfect competition and Pareto optimality conditions have all to be rejected due to the specific
conditions of the sub-projects. Furthermore, any type of marginal contribution against poverty is considered
sufficient justification.
1.4.   Without trying to force a conventional cost-benefit framework into any sub-project design, the SDF
program will as much as possible support sub-projects that are identified, designed, and organized through a
transparent process by the CBOs and for which a rigorous analysis is provided. Any sub-project will be
analyzed with sets of criteria reconciling three ultimate objectives:
* To have a better investment and fund allocation decision
* To alert CBOs to the risks taken and the alternative opportunities excluded by their choice
*   To guide decision-makers in minimizing sub-optimal resource allocations.
Since economic appraisal only covers only a few aspects of projects, the eventual investment decision will
always rely not only on the financial and economic appraisal. Project analysis in a broader sense is first of all
a question of sustainability that depends on social, political, and physical parameters in the face of a changing
environment.
- 59 -



1.5.    A guide is therefore provided in the operation manual on the type of data to collect, interpret, and
compare in a first-step simple analysis. Poverty is multidimensional and it is clear that poverty-alleviation
needs to be taken as a durable process. This implies that filling information gaps for empowerment and
informed decisions by the poor are essential and should begin with the sub-project design. Therefore,
identifying sub-projects and assuring proper analysis become part of the empowerment training in CBOs so
that actions are based on improved and information-based decision-making processes.
When necessary the help of various partners will be sought to provide the different types of analysis to justify
choices. In the meantime, one needs to prevent benefits from being captured by the local elite or powerful and
better organized local groups.
1.6.   The essence of an economic analysis is to compare all the benefits of the proposed action to all the
costs, with a project said to pass a benefit-cost test if the sum of all the benefits is greater than the sum of all
the costs. Such an analysis is seriously defective without monetary values for the social gains and services
affected by a proposed action. The nature of the SDF objectives induces a central problem in the application
of the standard economic tools to the provision of social goods, whether indirectly through regulation or
directly through public provision. The problem is to place a monetary value on social benefits. In health,
education, and other social services, the attempt will be perilous and very much biased by judgment values or
revealed preferences. Thus, instead of benefit, effectiveness expressed in physical terms or scale of quality
could be a proxy for estimating the fulfillment of the goals sought.
1.7.   The principles of economic analysis should be used with reason. Otherwise, simplified analyses are
called for to provide help for informed choice. For any type of sub-project, information has to be sought and
collected before empowering decision-making processes by the poor and their CBOs. Such an approach
requires minimum analysis and promotes a learning process that will strengthen the CBOs in the management
of sub-projects. Hence, data screening and simplified analysis are basic prerequisites for any type of
sub-project. They remain a backbone for project selection in SDF program. When conducted by the CBOs
themselves or by monitored contractors, they should contribute to the ultimate goal of empowering the poor.
1.8.   As the risk of resource misallocation grows and the consequent negative impact increases, it becomes
important to find ways to proceed with more precise analysis. The operation manual provides a guide for
such an analysis and gives checklists of preferential information and criteria for project selection. While
preparing sub-projects, methods will need to be adapted to the scope and level of risks in terms of resource
misallocation or duplication of poverty-alleviation targets. The following table shows the type of analysis
required for the SDF program sub-projects.
- 60 -



Table. Type of Analysis and economic justification according to scope and funds needed for sub-projects
Sub-project Cost      Income-generating        Social services and     Infornation-Education-
(CFA million)         sub-projects            infrastructure           Communication
sub-projects            sub-projects
<1 l0 M. CFA          Simple analysis          Simple analysis         Simple analysis
10 to 30 M. CFA       Simple analysis and      Simple analysis and     Simple analysis and
justification           justification            justification
required                required                required
30 to 100 M. CFA      Simple financial analysis  Simple cost-efficiency    Simple cost-efficiency
analysis                analysis
> 100 M. CFA          Detailed financial       Detailed cost-efficiency   Detailed cost-efficiency
analysis                analysis                 analysis
NB: M. = Millions
Cost Benefit and Cost Effectiveness Analysis
2.1.   When economic assessment is possible, a blue-print design for the main project types is proposed in
the operation manual. To help make it adaptable to the scope of the SDF program, three examples are
developed to help improve adequate the design of sub-projects, especially the income-generating projects.
2.2.    Since in the SDF program, participatory identification and management of sub-projects will be
essential and central the participation of beneficiaries is considered a highly cost-effective input. The vested
interests of individual participants and the ultimate goal of the CBO for their empowerment over
demand-driven activities they decided themselves are also considered as the basis for maximization of cost
savings and accountability. Outcomes are expected to be reinforced by the contracting procedures with private
or institutional principals whose contracts (supervised by SDF) will promote sustainability of the sub-projects.
The operation manual provides the bases to structure participatory identification and selection of sub-projects,
as well as to conduct simplified or more detailed analyses.
2.3.   In preparing income-generating sub-projects, current market prices are the data available to use for
any type of analysis, even a simple analysis. Costs and revenues will be collected from production and
marketing systems studies. In the case of social and community infrastructure or services, data has to be
carefully checked from Govemment, NGO, other CBOs, or any independent source.
Fiscal Impact
3.1.          The SDF program has fiscal impacts at the central, and local government levels. Activities
driven by the income-generating sub-projects, new or accelerated flows of services and resources, and
alleviation of poverty will necessarily entail activities subject to central and local government tax systems.
Furthermore, Central and Local Government involvement in the SDF program operations will likely require
their own financial participation. Therefore, sub-projects, at the aggregate level, will induce changes in
- 61 -



expenditures and revenues as a result of the SDF program. Since sub-projects will mainly be demand driven
and directed toward infrastructure, social interventions, and income-generating activities, it is difficult to
compute the fiscal dimension and to have an exact quantitative assessment of their fiscal impact. In addition,
the exact combination of sub-projects is not known. The operation manual gives details concerning the
methodology and the hypothesis used for the analysis. However, a qualitative assessment of the trend and
direction of changes in revenues and expenditures induced by the program can be drawn.
3.2.    At the central government level, the expansion and improvement of social infrastructure and services
will yield little additional tax revenue. Costs will be incurred by the participation of the government in SDF
implementation. In the long term, the enabling effects of increased social infrastructure, better information on
markets, and more direct involvement of the poor and CBOs in marketing systems should promote higher
incomes, increase economic output, and larger tax bases.
3.3.    At the local government levels, trends will be close to those described above but taxes will be more
rapidly and directly gained through local user fees, especially market fees. Allocations to CBOs will be
matched by contributions from CBOs (in kind, labor, and cash). The mechanism will therefore help in the
operation, maintenance, and repair of the completed infrastructure and reduce or stabilize the usual budgetary
resources. This process will reinforce incentives for increased ownership and promote sustainability of the
sub-projects.
3.4.   A management unit for the SDF will be installed with inputs from the Central Government. The
intervention and procedures of the SDF will have a fiscal impact at the Central or Local Government levels.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Due to the demand-driven aproach, the nature of individual micro-projects and sub-projects, is not
identified at this stage.
Main Assumptions:
Refer to the above table at the end of paragraph 1.8.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Examples of cost-effectiveness indicators valid in the context of Senegal during project preparation are on
the following page.
- 62 -



Examples of cost effectiveness indicators
Health
Health post (with housing, without nursery)   26 000 000/35 000 000
Health post (with housing and nursery)        64 000 000
Annual stock for health post (Record books,   200 000
stationery)
Equipment (furniture, work materials)         8 169 700 /11 000 000
Initial stock of essential drugs and current materials   800 000
Health room                                    2 850 000/7 000 000
Health room and nursery                        15 000 000
Stock in current materials                    50 000
Equipment (furniture, material for work)      400 000/1 000 000
Initial stock of essential drugs and current material    300 000
Rural nursery                                  8 000 000
Equipment of a rural nursery                  2 000 000
Services Pricing
Adult fees (HR)                                100/300
Infant fees (HR)                              50/300
Doctor's visit                                 500/1000
Maximum margin on drugs (from a government    50 %
national pharmacy to the beneficiary)
Maximum margin on drugs (HP, HR)              30%/40 %
Vaccination                                    50/100
Education
Classroom                                     4 750 000
Equipment and school material                  1 000 000
Other Infrastructures
Youth center in rural area                     30 000 000
Fences (m)                                    25 000
Communal house                                 15 000 000
Hygiene
Water provision in rural area (meter)         5 500
- 63 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Years Ending
| Year I  I Year2 2    Year3  | Year 4  | Year5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          11.2       12.6      17.6        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.4        2.4        1.3       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         12.6       15.0      18.9        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             12.6       15.0      18.9        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  10.5       9.5        9.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.1        0.1       1.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.1        0.2        0.3       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     1.9       5.2        8.6       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    12.6       15.0      18.9        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3     Year 4    Year5l Year 6         Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         11.2      12.6       17.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           1.4       2.4        1.3        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs        12.6       15.0      18.9        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing            12.6       15.0      18.9        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 10.5       9.5        9.9        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.1       0.1        0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central               0.1        0.1       0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.1       0.2        0.3        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    1.9       5.2        8.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   12.6       15.0       18.9       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-64 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Procurement
Guidelines. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPPAR) was conducted in July 1994. The
findings of this review remain valid. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict
with IDA guidelines. No special exception, permits, or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents
since Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary
provisions in local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods will be purchased in accordance with
World Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be
used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and
regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit (four weeks at
least); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iii) no
preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from
the competitions; and (v) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document is
submitted to IDA and deemed acceptable by it. The standard bidding document for NCB will be based on
the World Bank's Standard Bidding Document with appropriate modifications for advertisement of the
Invitation For Bids (which may be limited to the major national daily newspaper), the currency of bid price
and payment, applicable laws, etc. IDA-financed Consulting services will be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. The project will use the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals (RFP) for selection of Consultants.
Procurement Notices. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN Development
Business and in a national paper. The GPN will be updated annually in case ICB procurement is not
completed in the first year of the project. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for goods
and works contracts procured under ICB and NCB bases.
Procurement Plans. Except for Community micro-projects and PFI sub-projects, a Project Procurement
Plan (PPP) covering the entire project period, showing contract packages, and for each package its
estimated cost and procurement method and processing times until completion, and bidding documents for
items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the project, will be prepared and submitted to IDA for
review prior to credit effectiveness. Submission of a PPP for the entire project, acceptable to IDA, will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. By October I of each year, the SFMU will submit to IDA for no
objection, an updated version of the PPP according to actual procurement activities for the past year and
subsequent revision of the plan for the following years. For micro-projects to be implemented by CBOs
and sub-projects to be implemented by PFI and communities, no global and annual procurement plans will
be prepared, as sub-projects will be generated by the communities from time to time during the project
implementation period. However, the appraisal document of each approved micro-project and sub-project
will include a procurement schedule for completing the project.
Scope of Procurement. Procurement under the project will involve the following:
* Access to Social Services - Community micro-projects. Component 1, estimated to cost US$12.35
million equivalent, will consist of: (a) grants to finance a limited number of micro-projects (about 400)
- 65 -



estimated to average the equivalent of US$5,000 each, for micro-projects carried out by the
communities to improve their access to social services (sub-component 1.1) and $30,000 each, for
about 150 micro-projects aiming at increase access to social infrastructure (sub-component 1.2); the
total of grants to CBOs is estimated at the equivalent of US$8.97 million; (b) training of the
communities; and (c) consultant services, mainly by NGOs, to provide technical assistance to the
SFMU/CDSU, information and training to communities, and to carry out the participatory needs
assessment with communities, totaling US$2.93 million. The objective of the present first phase of the
APL is to test the procedures with a few communities before scaling up to the second APL phase.
Procurement procedures will be carried out by the communities and will include procurement of works,
goods, and/or services according to the micro-projects to be prepared by the Communities, appraised
and approved by the project. Procedures for the selection by the project of the micro-projects proposed
by the communities as well as the procedures to be carried out by the communities to procure works,
goods, and services within the approved micro-projects, will be detailed in a specific Manual of
Procedures For Community micro-projects (MP-CMP) which is being developed during project
preparation and will be validated by an ad-hoc group comprising representatives of the Government,
the SFMA, partner institutions experienced in community-driven development such as NGOs, and
communities. The format and presentation of the MP-CMP will be tailored to fit the education level of
the communities. Adequate training for the correct understanding and use of the procurement sections
of the MP-CMP will be provided to communities' leaders and procurement agents by specialists
financed under the Capacity Building component (component 3), and by the procurement specialists of
the regional offices of the CDSU as part of their regular activity. Submission of a version of this
Manual of Procedures (MP-CMP), acceptable to IDA was a condition of negotiations. The Bank
received a draft which was reviewed during negotiation. Submission of a revised version of this Manual
of Procedures (MP-PFI), acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of effectiveness.
Access to micro-finance -micro-finance sub-projects. The component 2, estimated to cost US$19.80
million equivalent, will consist of: (a) grants to finance a limited number of sub-projects (about 15)
carried out by existing Micro Finance Institutions (PFIs) estimated to average the equivalent of US$
35,000 each and totaling US$0.6 million, aiming at building additional financial and management
capacity of the selected PFIs, in order to be able to reach poorer segments of their target market of
borrowers, or to expand existing target market of poor borrowers. This support from the Project is
expected to leverage an increase in PFIs lending to poor (financed from existing PFI resources)
estimated at the equivalent of US$15.11 million. Procedures for the selection by the Agency of the
sub-projects proposed by the PFIs as well as the procedures to be carried out by the PFIs to procure
works, goods, and services within the approved sub-projects, will be detailed in a specific module of
the Manual of Procedures for PFI (MP-PFI) which is being developed during project preparation and
will be validated by an ad-hoc group comprising representatives of the Government, the SFMA, PFIs
and communities experienced in micro-finance; (b) grants to finance CBOs' income-generating
sub-projects in communities which are beyond the reach of existing PFI. CBOs' sub-projects (about
350) estimated to average the equivalent of US$8,000 each and totaling the equivalent of US$3.13
million, will include the creation -- and/or improvement of existing capacity -- of a community-owned
Saving and Credit Association (SCA) to collect revenues generated by the IGA, and an agreement
between the new SCA and an existing PFI for the financing, from the PFI's own resources, of further
financial products and services, such as credit, provided by the SCA to community members.
Procedures for the selection by the Agency of the sub-projects proposed by the communities (CBOs)
for IGAs, as well as the procedures to be carried out by the CBOs to procure works, goods, and
services within the approved sub-projects, will be detailed in a specific module of the MP-PFI; (c)
Training and Consultant services of firms, specialized in micro-finance, to support the SFMU/MFSU,
the PFIs and the CBOs in the implementation of the component's activities (US$ 1.0 million equivalent).
- 66 -



Training for correct use of the procurement sections of the MP-PFI will be provided to the PFIs and
CBOs by specialists of the SDFU as part of their regular activity. Submission of a version of this
MP-PFI, acceptable to the Bank, was a condition of negotiations. The Bank received a draft which was
reviewed during negotiations. Submission of a revised version of this MP-PFI, acceptable to IDA, will
be a condition of effectiveness.
* Capacity Building for Vulnerable Groups and the CBOs. Component 3, estimated to cost US$3.54
million equivalent, will cover: (a) training and other related costs for delivering various services to
CBOs under the micro-project and the sub-project components, including procurement training; (b)
consultant contracts with service providers specialized in community-driven development, such as
NGOs, for the Information Education Communication (IEC) and the Grassroots Management Training
(GMT); and (c) goods for supporting the capacity-building program. By October I of each year, the
SFMU will prepare and submit to IDA for no objection, a training plan for the following year for
IDA's review, comments and approval before it is implemented.
*   The Poverty Monitoring component (Comp. 4.1), estimated to cost US$5.60 million equivalent, will
cover the implementation cost of the Directorate of Statistics of the MEF of a yearly nationwide
Priority Poverty Survey (PPS) and Participatory Poverty Assessments (PPA) and the dissemination of
results under appropriate formats for decision-making by policy-makers and managers in all sectors
and at various levels. It is estimated from similar past experience that 60% of the budgeted resources
will translate into operating costs for field surveyors (about US$3.0 million equivalent), while 40% will
finance procurement of goods (mainly the Poverty Information System, computers, vehicles and
printing -- about US$1.42 million equivalent), consultant services (studies, data inputting and
processing -- about US$1.0 million equivalent), and training.
_   The Project Management component (comp. 4.2), estimated to cost US$4.20 million equivalent, will
cover: (a) the development and installation of a computerized integrated MIS designed for the needs of
the three phases of the APL and office equipment (about US$1.0 million equivalent); (b) consultant
services for the development and implementation of a strong assessment mechanism in order to ensure
a quality evaluation of the tests carried out as the core objective of APL phase 1, including information
and research (about US$0.3 million equivalent); (c) procurement of services of high-level professionals
to staff the core teams of the central and regional offices of the SFU during the project period (about
US$1.49 million equivalent) under the method for selection of individual consultants, and through a
sequencing under which the Director General is first recruited, then he/she participates in the
recruitment of each of the other central and regional staff; (d) other consultants such as financial and
technical auditors, researchers, and long-distance communication providers for tele-conferencing; (e)
equipment and incremental operating costs; and (f) limited civil works for rehabilitation of offices
(about US$0.20 million).
Responsibilities. The SFMU will be responsible for the supervision, administration, and monitoring of
procurement under the project, and for carrying out all procurement activities except these carried out by
Communities and PFIs under components I and 2 which are financed through grants. In addition, the
SFMU will provide adequate procurement support to CBOs and PFIs with procurement responsibilities
under the project. The SFMU will: (i) recruit six-high level procurement specialists experienced in the
Bank's procurement procedures and equipped with skills to provide procurement training (to Communities
and PFIs): one at the central office (CSFU) and one in each of the five regional offices (RFMUs); and (ii)
contract with an external firm with institutional procurement capacity for providing in-service training to
SFMU procurement staff to develop their skills as trainers of communities and to PFIs in procurement
matters related to the sub-projects. At project appraisal, the TOR of the individual consultant for the
-67 -



position of Director General of the SFMU was agreed upon by the Bank and the recruitment procedure was
initiated by the Government. The TOR of the other individual consultants, and the firm for services above
mentioned in (a) and (b) will be finalized and, when agreed upon by the Bank, recruitment procedures will
be initiated by the Govemment, according to an action plan agreed upon during project negotiations and
included in this Annex. The recruitment of the above-mentioned procurement staff will be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The SFMU will collect and record information regarding procurement administration
managed by itself as well as other entities with procurement responsibilities (CBOs and PFIs), and will
send quarterly reports based on this information to the Government and the Bank. These reports will
indicate: (i) the status of procurement; (ii) an updated procurement plan; and (iii) compliance with
aggregate limits on specified procurement methods. Procurement audits of each project component will be
carried out on a semi-annual basis and will be part of the annual audits of the project accounts to ensure
that procurement under the project is carried out in accordance with World Bank policies and procedures.
Training in procurement according to Bank policies and procedures will be provided during the project life
to the SFMU and other project beneficiaries.
Capacity Assessments. Once established, the SFMU will undergo an assessment, conducted by a World
Bank Procurement Analyst, to determine its capacity to procure goods, works, and services, and to
supervise and monitor procurement carried out by other actors in the project that will be involved in
procurement, in accordance with World Bank policies and procedures. Compliance of the SFMU's
procurement capacity level with the required level to manage project procurement according to WB
requirements will be a condition of effectiveness. Other actors in the project with procurement
responsibilities are PFIs and CBOs. The PFIs will be assessed when they are appraised and selected to
participate in the project. The CBOs have little or no procurement experience and capacity. The objective
of the project is to build this capacity through a learning process. All training and/or consultant services
necessary will be provided to the SFMvIU to ensure compliance with World Bank procurement policies and
procedures. All training and/or consultant services necessary will be provided to the CBOs and PFIs to
ensure compliance with World Bank procurement policies as well as compliance with procedures spelled
out in the Manuals of Procedures agreed upon by the WB.
Risk Rating. Due to the creation of the management structure on one hand, and to the limited existing
procurement capacity of the Communities and the PFIs, on the other hand, the Project is rated "high risk".
Measures taken to address this rating are two fold: (a) pre-requisite skills of recruited staff, provision of
adequate technical assistance and training as summarized in the above paragraph; (b) very small-scale tests
during the first phase of the APL (about 550 communities for component 1, about 15 PFIs and 350 CBOs
for component 2), before scaling up to the second phase. The objective during the first phase is to
concentrate efforts at building the capacities to carry out the test successfully, draw lessons from the test,
including lessons in procurement, and fine-tune the procedures before scaling up to the second phase.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
1.    Works. Contracts for civil-works financed under IDA Credit, estimated to cost about US$ 0.20
million, will be limited to the rehabilitation of offices to accommodate the SFMT units at the central and
regional levels. To the extent possible, works will be grouped together and procured through NCB.
Contracts for small works which will not be possible to package with the others and estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 equivalent, will be procured under
lump-sum fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained in writing from at least three
qualified local contractors. The written invitation must include a detailed description of the works
including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic forrn of agreement acceptable to
IDA, and relevant drawings when applicable. The contract will be awarded to the contractor who offers
- 68 -



the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates that he has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully .
2.    Goods. Goods to be financed under the IDA credit (totaling US$ 5.7 million equivalent) will be
grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent to be procured through ICB in accordance with
the World Bank's Guidelines. These goods include those required for the Poverty Information System and
the SFMU Information System to be implemented at the central, regional and local levels, furniture and
equipment, vehicles and spare parts, for the SFMU, the Directorate of Statistics in the MEF, and for the
PFIs and CBOs as part of the capacity-building component. The two Information Systems will be procured
through ICB on the basis of the SBD: Supply and Installation of InforTnation Systems published by the
World Bank in February 1999. Supplies that have to be purchased on an annual basis such as IEC and
pnnted materials, and other goods and equipment locally available, with a unit value exceeding US$30,000
equivalent and which cannot be grouped together into packages exceeding US$100,000 equivalent and are
unlikely to be of interest to foreign suppliers because of their small size and the geographical dispersion of
the delivery points, will be awarded on the basis of NCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA,
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.50 million equivalent. Small quantities of items such as office
supplies, consumable materials and spare parts normally considered to be standard items and which cannot
be grouped together into packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, will be purchased locally through
National Shopping based on price quotations obtained in writing from at least three eligible suppliers,
provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$0. 10 million equivalent.
3.     Micro-projects (component 1) and sub-projects (component 2). Goods and works required for
micro-projects and sub-projects financed through grants to CBOs and PFIs will be procured in accordance
with provisions of para. 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, related to Community Participation in
Procurement, as specified in the Manual of General Procedures (MGP) and its specific modules such as the
MP-CMP and the MP-PFI. These latter documents will detail the procurement procedures to be followed
by the CBOs and the PFIs. Submission by the Government of a draft Manual of General Procedures
(MGP), and its specific modules Manual of Procedures for Community micro-projects (MP-CMP) and
Manual of Procedures for Micro-Finance (MP-MF), acceptable to IDA was a condition of negotiations.
The Bank received a draft which was reviewed during negotiations. Submission and adoption of the
finalized versions of the specific modules of the MP-CMP and MP-MF, acceptable to IDA, will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
4.     Consultant services. Consultant services to be financed by IDA (totaling US$4.32 million
equivalent) will be for:
(i) studies: elaboration of baseline data, test assessments, poverty surveys, conception of the MIS strategic
structure, architectural design and civil engineering services; (ii) technical assistance and training in the
area of quality procurement services, community capacity building, IEC, test assessment, MIS design and
management, and monitoring and evaluation; (iii) services of distance communication providers; (iv)
contracts with institutions specialized in community-based development, such as NGOs, for services
appropriate to their specific strengths; (v) research contracts; (vi) key staff of the SFMU including
procurement specialists; (vii) technical and financial audits and procurement audits. Consultant services
will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (published in January 1997 and updated in September 1997 and January 1999). Standard
World Bank documents -- Standard Request for Proposal: Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and
revised April 1998 and July 1999 -- will be used whenever appropriate. Recruitment will be through
competition among qualified firms short-listed on the basis of replies to a Request for Expression of
Interest, in which the selection will be based on the Quality-and Cost-Based Selection procedure (QCBS).
For financial audits (of a standard nature), the Least-Cost Selection will be most appropriate method.
- 69 -



Services of lecturers and small studies that can be provided by individual consultants will be selected
through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly. Contracts of the SFMU key staff which will be paid under the category Operation Costs (totaling
US$1.49 million equivalent) will be also procured according to the procedure of selection of individual
consultants. When the estimated contract amount is greater than US$100,000 equivalent, a Request for
Expression of Interest will be published in a national newspaper and in UN Development Business.
Single-Source Selection may be exceptionably used for the recruitment of a tele-conferencing service
provider in case only one institution expresses its interest and has the capacity to deliver this kind of
service.
Short lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 equivalent may comprise national
consultants provided that a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive
costs. The short lists will be based on a Request for Expression of Interest which may be published in the
UN Development Business and a national newspaper. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest,
they will not be excluded from consideration. The Standard Request for Proposal and Form of Contract, as
developed by the Bank, will be used. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments of
individual consultants, i.e., those not exceeding six months.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.20          0.00           0.00           0.20
(0.00)         (0.18)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.18)
2. Goods                            5.04           0.50           0.10          0.17           5.81
(5.03)         (0.50)        (0. 1 0)       (0.00)        (5.63)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           6.58          0.00           6.58
and Training                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.58)        (0.00)         (6.58)
4. Micro-Projects CBO and           0.00           0.00          12.79          15.00         27.79
Sub-projects PFIIIGA              (0.00)         (0.00)        (12.02)        (0.00)        (12.02)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00           4.89          0.20           5.09
Costs                              (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.54)        (0.00)         (4.54)
PPF refinancing                     0.00           0.00           1.05          0.00           1.05
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.05)         (0.00)        (1.05)
Total                            5.04           0.70          25.41          15.37         46.52
(5.03)         (0.68)        (24.29)        (0.00)        (30.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
With respect to goods and works, prior review by the Bank of procurement documentation will be carried
- 70 -



out for all ICB contracts, for contracts for works under NCB, and the first three contracts for goods under
NCB. With respect to grants, prior review will be carried out for the first 50 Agreements with CBOs for
grants for micro projects, for the first 50 Agreements with CBOs for grants for IGAs, and for 20% of the
following Agreements for both micro-projects and IGAs. Procurement documentation on all post-reviewed
contracts and the agreements for micro-projects and sub-projects should remain in the project files in
possession of the SFMU for eventual audits.
With respect to consultant services and training, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference, irrespective of contract value. For each contract with consulting firms estimated to cost
US$75,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report will be
submitted to the Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. Contracts with individual
consultants, estimated to cost US$30,000 or more, will be submitted to the Bank for its prior review. For
contracts below the above thresholds, terms of reference shall be funished to the Bank for its review. All
other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                     Contracts Subject to
Expenditure            Threshold                 Procurement                Prior Review
Category           (US$ thousands)                Method                  (US$ millions)
1. Works                   Above                       NCB                  Prior IDA Review
US$30,000                                       Aggregate amount under
US$0.20 million
Below                     OTHER                    Post review
US$30,000                                       Aggregate amount under
US$50.000
2. Goods                   Above                       ICB                  Prior IDA Review
US$100,000                                       Total US$5.04 million
Between                     NCB                Prior review of the first 3
US$30,000 and                                    contracts; Post review of the
US$100,000                                         following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$0.5 million
Below                     OTHER               Prior review of the first 3
US$30,000                                      contracts; Post review of the
following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$100.000
- 71 -



4. Grants for            Below USS5,000            Manual of Procedures for        Aggregate amount
CBOs'               (micro-projects for access to  Community Micro-Projects         US$3.11 million
micro-projects            social services)              (MP-CMP)                 Prior review of the first
(Access to                                                                     Agreements, post review of
social services                                                                20% of the Agreements that
and basic                                                                               follow
infrastructures                                    Manual of Procedures for
Above USS5,000           Community Micro-Projects         Aggregate amount
(micro-projects for access to       (MP-CMP)                   US$5.86 million
infrastructure                                      Prior review of the first 20
Agreements, post review of
20% of the Agreements that
follow
5. Grants for           Below US$ 10,000           Manual of Procedures for        Aggregate amount
micro-finance        Sub-projects for Income-     Micro Finance Institutions        US$3.13 million
sub-projects           Generating Activities             (MP-PFI)              Prior review of the first 50
Agreements, post review of
the 20% of the following
Agreements
Above US$ 10,000          Manual of Procedures for        Aggregate amount
Sub-projects of Micro- Finance    Micro Finance Institutions     US$0.6 million
Institutions                  (MP-PFI)                 Prior review of all
Agreements
6. Consultant             (a) Individuals:        Section V of the Directives      Prior IDA review
Services                 above US$30,000
Section V of the Directives
Individuals:                                        Prior review of the first 5
below USS30,000                                       contracts, post review of the
20% of the following
Quality and Cost Based             contracts
Selection (QCBS)
(b) Firms                                              Prior IDA review
above US$75,000            Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS)
Firms below                                          Prior review of the first 5
US$75,000                                          contracts, post review of the
20% of the following
Least Cost Selection             contracts
(c) Audit                                              Prior IDA review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$7.2 million equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Assessment of the Project Procurement/Contract Management System: The procurement/contract
management system relating to this project was reviewed before negotiations. The objective of the review
was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project conforms to
the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects. The review was based on the "Assessment of
Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and
Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank. It was assessed that the project satisfies the
Bank's minimum procurement management requirements. However the project does not have in place an
adequate procurement/contract management system that can provide the appropriate data on major
- 72 -



procurement and contract management (PMR-Section 3) as required by IDA. The agreed action plan by the
Borrower to remedy the situation is detailed below.
Action Plan
Tasks                                               Responsibility                 Completion Date
1. Recruitment of the Director of the SFMU
* Preparation of terms of reference                Coordinator PNLP                   done
* Approval of terms of reference                   IDA                                done
* Publication of Request for Application           Coordinator/PNLP                   done
* Transmission of proposed contract with evaluation
report and interview report                     MFSN                         22 November 2000
* Approval of proposed contract                    IDA                           2 December 2000
*  Signature of contract and beginning of assignment  SFMA                       5 December 2000
president/Director
2. Recruitment of the six Procurement Specialists
*  Preparation of terms of reference                                            27 November 2000
* Approval of terms of reference                   MFSN                          7 December 2000
* Publication of Request for Application           IDA                          11 December 2000
* Submission of Applications by Applicants         SFMA                          11 January 2001
* Evaluation of Applications and transmission of   Applicants
proposed contract with evaluation report and    SFMA                          1st February 2001
interview report                                                              11 February 2001
* Approval of proposed contract                    IDA                           18 February 2001
* Signature of contract and beginming of assignment  SFMU/consultants
3. Manual of Procedures for Community Micro-Projects
and Manual of Procedures for Micro-Finance Institution
* preparation of the two draft Manuals             SFMA                       Done before negotiation
* discussion of the two draft Manuals during       IDA/Government               16 November 2000
negotiations                                    SFMA                         20 December 2000
* Finalization of the three draft manuals after    IDA                            5 January 2001
negotiations                                    SFMA                           15 January 2001
* Review of the draft manuals
* Validation of the two draft Manuals with CBOs and    SFMA                         2 February
PFI partners respectively
* Submission of the three draft Manuals to the General  SFMA                     6 February 2001
Assembly of the Fund                            IDA                           13 February 2001
* Submission of Manuals to IDA for
Non-objection
4. Assessment of the procurement capacitv of the SFMU                       After the installation of the
* Mission to assess the compliance of the SFMU's   IDA                    procurement specialists,
procurement capacity level with the required level to                   presumably 28 February 2000.
manage project procurement according to WB                              Credit effectiveness
requirements                                    IDA
* Compliance with WB requirements
-73 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Cateaory         Amount in US%million          Fininding Percentage
1. Civil works                              0.16                          85%
2. Goods                                    5.07               100% of foreign expenditures
and 85% of local expenditures
3. Training and Consultants services        5.92                         100%
4. Grants
a) sub-pprojects for CBOs Comp.l.l          2.54                         100%
b) sub-projects for CBOs Comp. 1.2          5.27                         95%
c) sub-projects for PFIs Comp. 2            0.52                         90%
d) sub-projects for IGAs Comp. 2            2.49                         90%
5. Operating costs                          4.08                          85%
6. PPF                                      1.05
7. Non-allocated                           2.90
Total Project Costs                         30.00
Total                                       30.00         _
Disbursements of the IDA credit will be made for civil works, goods, consultant services and training and
operating expenses that are eligible for IDA financing. The credit will be disbursed over a period of 42
months, taking into account that the credit's closing date will be six months after the project completion
date. While operating under traditional disbursement procedures all disbursements will be fully documented
at the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against the Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs). Once the project's financial management is deemed satisfactory enough to fulfill
all the requirements for disbursements on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), the project
will have the option to switch to PMR-based disbursements.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special Accounts
(SAs) will be reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment applications will be fully
documented except for: (a) contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent for works and goods; (b) US$
75,000 equivalent for consulting firms; US$30,000 equivalent for individual consultants; and (c)
US$30,000 for grants, training and operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of (SOEs). SOE
documentation will be retained at the Social Development Fund Unit for review by the WB Country Office
or IDA supervision missions. Table C shows disbursements by category of expenditure and financing
percentages.
Special account:
(a) Special Account under Traditional Disbursement Procedures
To facilitate disbursements, the SFMU will open an IDA Special Account at a commercial bank for IDA's
- 74 -



share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account will amount to FCFA 1.5 billion.
The authorized allocation shall be limited initially to an amount of FCFA 750,000,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding commitments
entered into by the Association shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. Each replenishment
request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
In parallel, advance accounts will be opened in a commercial bank and managed by the RFMU to cover
eligible expenses. The initial deposit to these accounts will be made by the SFMU and will be sufficient in
amount to cover 90 days of expenditures. Expenses incurred by the RFMU using these accounts will be
reimbursed by the SFMU from the Special Account. The SFMU will be responsible for ensuring the
accounting for the Advance Accounts and the Special Account. The SFMU will ensure the preparation of
replenishment requests for the SFMU-SA which will-be controlled and transmitted to IDA by the Direction
de la Dette et de l'Investissement (DDI).
(b) Special Account for Withdrawal Made on the Basis of PMRs
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has
deternined, based on the PMR accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to
finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided,
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining
in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of FCFA 2.2 billion.
Government Funds. For program execution, the Govermnent has agreed to put a minimum amount of
100 million FCFA per year from the BCI (budget consolide d'investissement) into the Ministry of
Economy and Finance budget to cover the share of investment and operating expenditures not fmanced by
IDA or other donors. The Government has also agreed to deposit in a Project Account opened in the Public
Treasury an annual amount of 100 million FCFA representing the amount necessary to cover recurrent
expenditures, at the latest by March 31, each year. At the time of negotiations, the Government agreed to
make an initial deposit of 100 million FCFA in the Project Account, which is a condition of IDA credit
effectiveness. This Project Account will be an advance account managed by the SFMU. See Annex 15 for
additional development of the financial management of the program, including financial system evaluation,
accounting, preparation of financial reporting, audits, financial staff, LACI requirements, and the action
plan for financial capacity-building within the SFMU.
-75-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           14
First Bank mission (identification)             04/02/99                      05/02/99
Appraisal mission departure                     04/17/2000                    07/26/2000
Negotiations                                    05/17/2000                    11/14/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Economy and Finance and Ministry of Family Affairs and National
Solidarity
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility (US$450,000; US$600,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Alassane Diawara                  Task Leader
Demba Balde                       Social Scientist/NGO Liaison
Roxanne Hakim                     Social Anthropologist
Serge Theunynck                   Senior Implementation Specialist/Procurement Accredited Specialist
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye          Financial Management Specilaist
Haddy Jatou Sey                   Consultant, Gender Specialist
Essimi Menye                      Statistician
Nadine Poupart                    Economist
Andre Nzapayeke                   Consultant, Capacity Building
Susan Opper                       Education Specialist/ECD
Solange Alliali                   Sr. Counsel, LEGOP
Wolfgang Chadab                   Disbursement Officer
Korotoumou Ouattara               Micro-fmance Specialist
Margueritte Monnet                Consultant, Training Specialist
Iradj Alikhani                    Sr. Economist, AFTPS
Marie Madeleine Ndaw              Task Team Assistant
Myrina McCullough                 Operations Analyst
Elsie Maka                        Task Team Assistant
Quality Assurance Reviews were received from: Steen Jorgensen (Director, SDV); Lynne Sherburne-Benz
(Sr. Economist, HDNSP); Julia Van Domelen (Sr. Economist HDNSP); Joyita Mukberjee (Private Sector
Development Specialist).
Quality Knowledge reviews were given by: Florent Agueh (Director, AFTQK); and Bernard Abeille (Lead
Procurement Specialist, AFTQK); Nadjib Sefta (Lead Procurement Specialist, AFTQK). Comments were
received from William Steel (Sr. Adviser, AFTPS).
- 76 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Operational Manual was reviewed during negotiations in November 2000. Its adoption by the
Borrower is a condition of effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment
Institutional Assessment
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Feasibility Studies                             Prepared by
- Rapport diagnostic du Projet Fonds d'investissement social  Comite de pilotage
- Atelier de mise A jour du profil de pauvret6                Comit6 de pilotage
- Elaboration du cadre logique                                Groupe de suivi
- Etude /Systemes alternatifs de fmancement des activites des femmes   Groupe de suivi
- Etude/Les strategies de lutte contre la pauvret6 d6velopp6es par les    COGEP
femmes
- Etudes sur les formes d'organisations des jeunes            Amsatou Thiaw CISSE
- Etudes/Bilan des activites de prevention, de formation et de  Ameth NDOUR & Codou
reinsertion des jeunes                                        BOP
- Etudes /la mise en place d'un systeme permanent d'analyse et de  Abdou K. GUEYE &
suivi des conditions de vie des menages                       Amadou BA
- Etude/Elaboration d'un programme de collecte de donnees sur les  Gustave Th. GAYE &
conditions de vie des menages pour 5 ans                      Elhadji DIOUM
- Etude sur l'evolution des conditions de vie des populations de 1988    CEMA- Afrique &
A 1998                                                        DPS/Matar GUEYE
- Realisation d'un document et d'un CDRom sur les statistiques  Consultant independant
relatives aux conditions de vie des menages
- Etude/Mise A jour du profil de pauvrete au Senegal          idem
- Etude sur la cartographie de la pauvrete au Senegal         idem
- Etude /Mise A jour de la matrice de comptabilite sociale    DPS/M.B. SYLLA
- Etude/Integration des resultats de l'ESAM dans la comptabilite  Arona DIA/DP
nationale
- Microfinance et acces des pauvres aux services et produits offerts    Soce SENE
au Senegal
Evaluation environnementale
Evaluation environnementale et gestion des impacts            Tropica/Mbarack DIOP
- 77 -



Evaluation sociale
Perception of poverty: local definition of decline, growth and  Khadi Jatou SEY & Wendy
development                                                  WILSON
Evaluation institutionnelle
- Montage institutionnel pour la mise en place du fonds d'   MGP/Afrique
investissement social
- Identification du r6le des ONG dans la mise en ceuvre du FIS  Andre NZAPAYEKE
*Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex   - Senegal
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 11128/2000
Closed
Prolects
Active Prolects
Last PSR
Supervision Rating bI                Amount In USS
Development  lmDlementatlon                                                    ni
Project ID   Project Name                                                                        Fiscal YearI          IDA;   Undisb.            Z
.JblZdye        Proase                                 I                      m   >
I              I          i          C)
P051610     AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                                  S                     S            1998                 8         5.7           >
P002367     AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                                 S                     S            1999               27.4       23.9           r   x
P035615     COMM NUTRITION                                       S                     S            1995               18.2        0.6           ce) 5
P069198     Distance Leamrnig Center- LIL                        #                                  2000                2.1        2.1           C)  C,
P041567     ENDEMIC DISEASES                                     S                     S            1997               14.9         12                f .
P051357     ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                                     S                     S            1998               100        74.2                C 0
P002373     HIGHER EDUC I                                        S                     S            1996               26.5        9.1           <
P002369     INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                                 S                     S            1998                50        32.6           tD   .
CO  P057996      NAT.INFRA.PROGRAM                                    U                     U            2000              28.5        27.6          -   0
P035621     PILOT FEMALE LITERACY                                HS                    HS           1996               12.6        2.1
P002376     PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                                    S                    S            1995               12.5        2.7      
P047319     Quality Education For AlI Program                                                       2000                50        49.3            -n  u
P046648     REGIONAL POWER                                        S                    S            1997               10.5        4.5
P042056     SUST PART ENGY MGMT                                  S                                  1997                 0         2.8           t.
P046768     SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                                 S                     S            1997                5.2        3.8               C
P055471     TRADE REFORM AND COMPETITIVENESS                                                        2001                100         97           0
P002366     TRANSPORT II                                          S                    S            1999                90        79.7
P002365     URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                                  S                    S            1998                75        54.1
P055472     URBAN MOBILITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                    HS                   HS           2000                70          69
P044383     URBAN TRANS REF TA                                    S                    S            1997                6.6        2.3
P002346     WATER SECTOR                                          HS                   S            1995                100         51
P067498     Y2K NATIONAL ACTION PLAN SUPPORT PROJECT              S                    S            2000               10.2          9
Total                                                                                                    818.1       615.1
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Senegal
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 9/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                      Disbursed
FY Approval                                               Company          Loan     Equity  Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1996197/98                                                AEFSERT              0.12       0      0      0  0.12     0      0     0
1980 BHS                     0    0.46      0      0    0   0.46      0      0
1999 Cisents duSahel     12.39    2.17  2.17      0    0       0      0     0
1997 GTtlDakar           t 137    L58       0  9.44  7.82   1.27      0  9.44
1998 SEF SENTA            0.22       0      0      0  0.22     0      0     0
1994/96 SOGECA                  0        0     0      0    0       0     0      0
TotalPortfolio:                                  24.1    4.21  2.17   9.44  8.16   1.73      0  9.44
Approvals Pending Comnitment
Loan     Equity  Quasi Partic
2001 SEF Royal Saly       1000        0     0      0
1998 GTiDakar[ncr.    3113.26  219.96       0      0
Totai Pending Coniwanient:                         4113.26  219.96      0      0
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Senegal    Africa  income       Development diamond'
19S9
Population, mWid-year (millions)                      9.3      642     2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas method. USS)                    510       500       410
GNP (Atlas methodt USS billions)                      4.7      321       988
Average annual growth. 1993-99
Population (%)                                        2.7       Z6        1.9    G 
Labor lorce %)                                                  26       2.3     GNP                  \.         Gross
per    I                        vnary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99                             capit               ,        enrolnment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nafional poveny line)
Urban population % of total population)               45        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      52        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)              68        92        77
Child malnutrition % of children under 5)             22        32        43               Access to sale water
Access to improved water source t% of popufation)     51        43        64
iiteracy (% ofpopulatfion age 15+)                    67        39        39
Gross prdmary enrollment (% of school-age population)  66       78        96               Senegal
Male                                                71        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              57        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      19S9
Economic rats'
GDP (uS$ billions)                          2.8       4.6       4.7      4.8
Gross domesfic investmenUGDP                11.4     1 1.9     18.6     18.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and servicestGDP          30.9    26.7       33.0      32.0
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   2.4      6.4      12.8     12.4
Gross naional savingstGDP                   -2.2      2.3      12.4     1 1.5
Current account balancetGDP                -15.1     -9.7      -6.2     -7.3     Domestc
Interest paymentstGDP                        1.8     3.2        1.9      1.8     Savings                     Investrent
Total dbteGDP                              40.8    70.7        71.2     65.4                      .
Total debt servicetexports                  15.2    26.6        9.7      9.5
Present value of debiGDP                                      43.2      44.0
Present value of debt/exports                                 120.5    126.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1990g3
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9      3.1     5.7       5.1       5.2            -Senegaf
GNP er capita                      -0.1      0.6     3.0       2.5       2.5             - ---Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       3.0     2.0      5.8       6.0       8.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 23.7    19.4       17.4     17.9     2
Industry                                    15.0    18.8      24.2      25.3     "-
Manufacturing                             10.4    13.3       15.8      16.7     e
Services                                    61.4    61.9       58.4     56.9    .10     _9     9                    g e
Private consumption                         80.3    78.0       76.9     76.8    o20
General govemment consumption               17.3    15.6       10.3     10.8              --GDI              GDP
tmports of goods and services               40.0    321       38.7      38.4
1979.89  1989-99     1998      199s     Growth of exports and lmponts %)
(average annual growth)J
Agriculture                                  1.8     1.5      -3.2       6.0    '5
Industry                                    4.2      4.1       8.5       6.3    re
Manufacturing                              4.6      3.4       7.8       4.9     s
Services                                    3.0      3.3       7.6       4.5
Private consumption                          22      3.0       6.0       5.7      s'         95   95   9?  gs    w
General govemment consumption                3.4    -0.5        1.4      2 3
Gross domestic investment                   41       4.8      17.6       1.7   -rp
Imports of goods and services               1.7      1.1      10.8       4.4            *Exrs            *rt
Gross national Product                      2.8      3.4       5.8       5.3 3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomPlete.
- 81 -



Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999    Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  40 -
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                              9.7      0.4       1.1      0.8     s
Implicit GDP deflator                        9.7      0.9       1.9      2.2    20
Government finance                                                               r0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0 f    g          '     9      a
Current revenue                             18.4    17.8       17.4     17.2    -10      94          9
Current budget balance                               -0.1       5.8      5.0            -G DP deflator    eCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -2.9      -2.6     -3.4
TRADE
(US$ milltons)                             1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         478      759       966      960    1i000
Groundnut                     t50                              52       64     140D 
Fish                                                70         24       33     1200
Manufactures                                        167       258      244     1000
Total imports (ct)                                  1,134     1,383    1.506      oo  i
Food                                               334        344      345      400
Fuel and energy                                     t55       153      202
Capital goods                                       173       218      2          o
93  94  95  96  97  96  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 1. 04            116       117
Import price index (1995=100)                         83        99       105                 U Exports      imrportns
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            127       116       112
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ ntillions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                   816    1255       1,540    1534       0
Imports of goods and services              1,104    1,514     1.807    1.842      2   i
Resource balance                           -288    -260       -267      -308
Net income                                   -79    -205       -76       -72
Net current transfers                       -48       16        54       28      *6
Current account balance                    -415    -448        -289     -352     -
Financing items (net)                       265      543       314       377    .10
Changes in net reserves                      150     -95        -25      -25    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       34       31       428      440
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           212.7   319.0      590.0    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposItIon of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1.122    3,269     3,324    3,138
IBRD                                       41       94         9        5                    F: 6k20
IDA                                        88      592      1,448    1,588
Total debt service                           135     359       163       158          E: 845
IBRD                                        6       18         8         5
IDA                                          1       6        18        15
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               B: 1.58a
Official grants                           148      293       241       204
Official creditors                        359      573       409      346
Private creditors                          47      -51        -27      -28          0: 418
Foreign direct investment                   6      -15         7      169
Portfolio equity                            0     -205        -36      -39                 C: 199
World Bank program
Commitments                                32       22       233        0      A - IBRO                   E - 8ilateral
Disbursements                              27       49       108       70      8 - IDA    D - Other rmulilterat  F - Pival
Principal repayments                        3       11        16        19     C - IMF                    G - Shot-term
Net flows                                  25       38        93       51    _
Interest payments                           4       13        10         1
Net transfers                              21       25        82       50
Development Economics                                                                                             12/1/00
- 82 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Summary Findings of Social Assessment
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Perceptions of Poverty: Local Definitions of Decline, Growth and Development
1.    Introduction
This study aims to answer certain questions. Among the questions which this social assessment (SA) study
answers are those concerning the self-perception of villagers in some of the poorest villages in Senegal. In
addition, the study aims to understand:
Issues relating to poverty for different groups of men, women, and youth
The different roles, needs, interests, opportunities/constraints of men, women, and youth
The socio/cultural ideologies! traditional beliefs/customs.
2.
Methodology
2.1    Literature review
The team spent a few weeks together reviewing and discussing the major literature on poverty, especially
gender issues in poverty, since poverty affects men and women differently and on social assessments in
Senegal in particular, and in the Sahel in general. There have been few qualitative studies of poverty in the
rural sector in Senegal. Those which have been done, are primarily linked to the implementation of various
NGO activities (i.e., Winrock, 1996; Christian Children's Fund, 1998-99, etc.) and tied to a particular
region. The national government, through census activities of the Ministry of Agriculture (1998), has
provided a solid base for such studies. In terms of similar studies based on the same Ministry of
Agriculture data base, USAID carried out a national study in 1999 on rural and urban perceptions of
decentralization. This study, like the present one, attempted to elicit people's thoughts and ideas about
current conditions in Senegal and in their communities in particular. Studies carried out by the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Women and Social Solidarity tend to be region specific, but on the level of
the region they give quite good data by sector. This has been helpful in comparing our notes with what has
been stated for the nation as a whole on a much, larger scale. It is evident that a sample of six villages can
only be indicative. However, inasmuch as there were particular common characteristics which were used to
establish the sample, we can assume that there are many, many more villages which are similar to those
visited.
2.2    Design of the field approach
In designing the study, a decision was made to follow ecological/historical division in the country. This
allows coverage of the characteristics of all regions mentioned in the pre- project paper, as well as to
establish a historical frame of reference which brought more consistency between the study team's frame of
reference and the historical (geo-political) frame of reference of those studied. The regions are: peanut
basin, kaffrine, upper Casamance (Fouladou), Eastern Senegal (Bundu), Diery, Ferlo, and Malika
(suburban Dakar).
- 83 -



Target groups to conduct the SA were identified through purposive sampling. Criteria was then established
for selecting villages from these regions. The team then applied its selection criteria to the national
agricultural census with a view towards identifying the choices among the poorest, most marginal villages
in the country. It was decided against choosing such households out of more diverse, heterogeneous
communities due to Bank expressed concern of mitigation of negative impact at the time of project
implementation. It was decided to select communities which reflected the limited criteria which were set up
as a profile of representative poverty. They are therefore most representative of the poorest communities in
Senegal, although they may not include the poorest or most marginalized families of Senegal, in absolute
terms. The criteria were:
1.    size of village (average size 800 - 1,000 people);
2.     ecological/historical zone;
3.    absence of markets (lumo);
4.     production factors and endowments;
5.    lack of social services and infrastructure;
6.     distance from the surfaced road (6 kilometers radius of the road, and beyond 6 kilometers);
7.     geographical isolation.
As such the following villages visited were:
Malika Sur Mer (Dakar); Thiaga Omar Gueye; Kerr Ibra Fall (Kaffrine); Mbelogne (matam);
Sourribourdaka (Bakel Matam); Kadialele (Bundu); and Belel Doulo (Linguere).
2.3    Methods used:
Panricipatory methods/techniques such as semi-structured interviews, focus group discussions, daily
activity profiles, social mapping and problemr/solution matrix, and participant observation were used to
gather data on the different perceptions of men, women, and youth in the villages visited. These techniques
enabled community members to interact with each other in identifying their own problems/solutions,
prioritizing them, and coming up with suitable action plans. Understanding the critical issues raised by
communities, will enable the SDF to design projects to fit the needs of all concemed.
This approach, enabled the team to analyze the socio-cultural and economic characteristics of the group of
communities selected as a group, and the socio-cultural economic characteristics of traditionally
disadvantaged categories in each village within the group. To this end, women, youth, the elderly, or other
potentially vulnerable groups (ethnic minority, class, caste) were described in relation to their geographic
and demographic specificity.
2.4    A framework for integrating gender issues:
The methodological principles for integrating gender into the SA are based on the primary objective of the
SDF to reduce poverty. The main targets for this fund are women and youth, because they have been
shown to be affected by poverty the most. In Senegal, there are high gender differences and dispanties in
all the key elements of poverty. (Please refer to Annex 12) Mainstreaming Gender into SDF Project for
detailed review of the status of women). However here are few sited examples.
In terms of capacity development, women have less access to social services such as education, health,
water, and transport. In terms of opportunities, women have less access to the formal economy and labor
market, credit, agricultural inputs, and technology, thus leading to lower agricultural productivity and also
a huge gender differential in earnings. Furthermore, there are huge gender disparities in the division of
- 84 -



labor, which reflects the different roles played by men and women. This in turn, leads to a highly
segregated labor market by gender.
Culturally and traditionally, men and women play different roles learned through the socialization process.
The overwhelming majority of women are conditioned by male-dominated institutions governing the family,
society, and the economy. By custom, the life of a woman is shaped by the patriarchal nature of the social
system. Her reproductive role is emphasized by social, cultural, and religious traditions. Understanding
the differences in these roles, by conducting gender analysis, will enable us to design appropriate strategies
for gender intervention.
3. Key findings
All villages, including the village in the pen-urban sector, relied heavily on livestock management as an
important aspect of their economic activity. All the villages demonstrated a keen interest towards education,
early childhood education, and in each instance we learned that the villagers were determined to provide
both western and Islamic education t6 their children. Although all villages comprised fairly religious
communities, maraboutic leadership did not play a central role in the day- to- day management or
decision-making of any of the villages, although some were founded in relation to support of various
maraboutic leaders.
The socio-cultural attributes in all villages were characterized by strong patriarchal leadership in the figure
of a respected and elderly village chief. All villages demonstrated a high degree of consultation between
men and women. However, the division of labor was demarcated strictly along gender lines. Men and
women play different roles in their villages based on their socio-cultural ideologies. In all villages kin
networks were strong and determinant factors in residential patterns and marriage choices, few to no
"strangers" lived in the village selected (i.e., seasonal workers, people outside of the local historical
experience). All villages displayed a high sense of community collective consciousness, with strong social
networking patterns, which in part are coping strategies for poverty reduction.
Endogenous Institutional arrangements: All villages demonstrated a high degree of independence vis-a-vis
their relationships with Government services, neighbors, or other exogenous institutions. Each village also
demonstrated observable pride in its survival skills, relative independence, and self-reliance. All the
villages noted the importance of institutions to poverty reduction, although it was said that exogenous
formal institutions have not played any significant role in their lives and livelihoods. In fact, villagers
participated in ranking outside institutions and creating favorable criteria for collaborating with institutions
for growth and prosperity. For example, in Thianga Omar Gueye, a semi-structured interview with a group
of women ranked the following as favorable criteria for working with exogenous institutions.
Institutions:
Should know the reality of the communities
Don 't look down on the poor
Should be very honest and open
Should listen to the voices of all the poor, and not play favorites
Should be dependable and accountable to the community
Should not have a political agenda
They should be very sensitive to women 's needs
Another interesting finding was the local, personalized concept of institution. Villagers said that in terms of
their social environment, the head of the village, the religious imam, or a few people of high social standing
- 85 -



were considered as institutions, because they could readily provide for the poorest in terms of economic,
social, and spiritual well-being. The following text presents other issues which the villages stressed as
priority investments for their development.
Education, including adult literacy, was also a major priority in all the villages visited. In the same way,
children's health and education were equally prioritized. Villages expressed that they have no access to
education, and to schools. However, in Malika Sur Mer, a focus group discussion with women revealed
that all their children under the age of 7 are now enrolled in school due to the Government law of
compulsory education. In other villages such as Kadialele and Soumbourdaka, villagers have made great
effort to put their children in school, and even though they do not have 100% participation of all children,
they expressed a strong desire to achieve this goal. The major stated constraint is access. In Malika sur
Mer, children have to travel all the way to Dakar to attend school, leaving their village everyday at 6:a.m.
m order to make it on time. In Mbelogne, they walk 4 kilometers to the nearest school, and in Keur Ibra
Fall, about 5 kilometers. The closest school to Kadialele is even farther.
The financial costs of this to parents is huge. The indirect costs of schooling such as books, pencils,
uniforms, or decent clothing, transportation allowance and lunch monies are just not affordable to most
parents in villages. Consequently, sacrifices are made between foregoing health care or nutritious food for
the family in order to have cash to supplement for the education of the children. Both men and women in
all the villages worry that if education is provided, the curriculum may still not serve their needs. They
wonder if there are enough female teachers, enough toilets and water facilities for both boys and girls, and
whether girls will be used to perform domestic chores in the school environment. These critical issues must
be discussed with institutions responsible for education.
Access to credit: All villages expressed a great deal of interest in obtaining financial resources in the form
of credit. Although each village attested to having out-migration of young men in search of salaried work,
still the majority of young men stayed at home, and most of them were involved in income-generating
off-farm activities, such as sale of wood, gum, tree crops, or livestock trading. In each case as well, women
had income-generating activities which they managed as a group or individually, and whose income they
used for the welfare of the household. Women were particularly keen to obtain credit, especially during the
rainy reason when poverty is at its peak. Women felt that having access to credit will provide for
income-generation activities, or use of the money to increase productivity and raise their meager earnings.
However, obtaining credit was a major problem for both genders, particularly women. In all of the villages
visited reasons such as lack of collateral, illiteracy, distance to credit institutions, lack of transport and
money, shyness and low self-esteem were all contributing factors as to why credit was difficult to obtain.
Health problems: Health problems were high on the list of village priorities in each case, and both men
and women expressed their concem for access to improved pre-natal and maternal care. In all of the
villages visited women complained that smoke inhalation from cooking with wood led to respiratory and
eye problems, which are difficult to treat due to lack of health care services and resources. In Thianga
Omar Gueye, for example, the activity profile done with women further revealed the difficulties and pain
they endure due to day-to-day routine of pounding com and millet for household consumption. They get up
at pre-dawn to pound and grind grain for the moming meal. Then, they would walk long distances to collect
wood and draw water for cooking. Between pounding and grinding grain, collecting water and fetching
wood, one elderly woman aged 47 stood up and said "all my life this has been my occupation, pounding
and grinding grain, fetching water and wood, and cooking and having children. l am so tired I am so
sick I am suffering from continual back and hand ache; feel my hands, they are so hard I don 't feel
sensation anymore. I have no money to cure myself there is no health center and the work must continue,
otherwise who would do it, the men no, it's a woman 's job"
- 86 -



The heavy burden that grain pounding puts on women's health, and the pollution from cooking and its
impact on their health are serious problems. It was revealed in all of the villages that the rainy seasons are
the worse period in terms of health for the entire villages, particularly women; they have no sources of
income during that period and almost everything becomes more expensive. This season is characterized by
bouts of malaria for all members of the household, which ironically falls at the time that the labor demand
is greatest. It is the period when poverty affects people the most. Household food consumption becomes
very poor and children and the elderly are most affected by under-nourishment. It is also the period where
they watch their young and elderly die of poverty-related diseases, such as diarrhea, malaria, cholera, and
yellow fever. The new threat, AIDS, is not apparently discussed publicly, and this sort of public
information and debate is a great need in these marginalized villages as well.
Lack of fornal institutions: None of the villages had a formal village development association, women's
development group, or young peoples' association, although one village did have an informal association of
village emigres who contributed from time to time to village needs. Another village, Thianga Omar Gueye,
had an informal women's association. Women organized themselves to network socially, and to counsel,
mentor, and give advice to the younger generation. It is through these meetings that cultural issues such as
rituals, initiations, marriages and other social and cultural affairs affecting their lives are discussed and
decided. Recently, the women have started contributing small amounts of money in the sum of CFA 3,000
each into their association. However, for now, the money is used for ceremonial purposes.
Issues of demographic, environmental, and agricultural change: All villages visited expressed the
opinion that their economic situation had become worse over the last 20 years and that the level of poverty
has increased; the reasons cited were the combination of climatic and environmental change and increased
population pressure in their regions. Recent studies in Senegal, such as that conducted by the Drylands
Research Center of the U.K. in collaboration with ISRA and local researchers (Mike Mortimer, Mary
Tiffen, Abdoul Fall, eds. 1999) have shown that the combination of change in agricultural policy in the
early 1980s (such as the structural adjustment programs) along with the lasting effects of the droughts of
1973-74 and 1982-3 have led most rural farmers to describe increasingly dire life conditions and
production problems. These agricultural policies severely impacted women the most. It has increased the
time burden for women as they were forced to simultaneously work on the cash crop production system,
their own farning for subsistence and home consumption, as well as manage the reproductive, household
work and community affairs. As a result, their work for the most part was unremunerated, their income
went down, they worked longer hours, and their health and that of their families, deteriorated. Also lack of
agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and farm equipment, as well as soil erosion, increased salinity in the
soil (particularly in Kaffrine and in Sedhiou), and lack of training/appropriate technology have all
contributed to the decline in agricultural productivity and to greater poverty.
Insecurity: The theft of livestock is a major problem in the daily lives of rural villages today, as reported
during the interviews. It was a significant factor affecting the prioritization of village needs in every case.
In urban areas, there is a high crime rate, and women are very aware of this security risk and have taken
precautions for their safety. This has now also become a growing reality in the rural sector, where civil
disturbances in neighboring regions (lower Casmance, Guinea Bissau) have increased the number of young
men with military experience and no employment or strong family attachments.
Women and men also expressed worries about food insecurity, especially during the rainy season, often
called the "hungry season" before the harvests. With the lack of suitable storage facilities, and diminishing
production levels, this is an acute problem in the rural sector today. Lack of storage for agricultural
produce had became a major problem which results in a lot of wastage of produce. Women also
complained of their lack of knowledge of conservation techniques, which leads to spoilage of agricultural
- 87 -



produce not immediately consumed sold. Most women who have no access to markets, must sell their
produce to middlemen, who are highly exploitative
Lack of access to water: The lack of access to water is a consistent constraint to development in terms of
agricultural and cattle productivity and household consumption and use. All the villages articulated a
strong demand for water. Activity profiles done with women in Kerr Ibra Fall and Thianga Omar Gueye,
revealed that women spend 6 to 7 hours of their time per day drawing water. In Keur [bra Fall the well
was 45 meters deep and the women complained of severe back and shoulder pains due to drawing water. In
other villages women have to walk about 10 kilometers to draw water from wells. Poverty in terms of lack
of material goods was especially evident. When we discussed this issue, equipment and materials were so
few that they were virtually "village holdings" as opposed to personal belongings distributed among various
households.
Lack of pasture for cattle and small ruminants was also articulated strongly by both men and women in all
villages. Villagers expressed interest in training for the production and use of dry fodder.
Lack of transport was a major constraint to all villages. Activity profiles in Thianga Omar Gueye,
Kadialele, and Keur Ibra Fall revealed that lack of transportation severely inhibits their income-earning
capacity due to geographic isolation. In Thianga Omar Gueye during the rainy season, not even the
middlemen would come to their village to buy produce, due to the conditions of the unpaved muddy roads.
Much produce would therefore rot. In Malika Sur Mer, the women complained how lack of transport
affects their health, particularly for a woman in labor. She has to be transported by cart and horse to the tar
road which is about 4 kilometers in order to get transportation for the nearest health center or hospital.
Marketing constraints: In all but two villages, the main source of income for women is selling milk in the
market. On market days, women have to wake up at pre-dawn, to take care of their household and domestic
chores before beginning the grueling trek to the market. Without any transport and lighting of roads, they
have to walk miles along wooded unpaved, winding, roads. This poses a threat to their lives due to the
increased violence and insecurity in the area. Very few can afford to rent a cart or a horse. Once they reach
the tar road, they then have to wait for transportation which is not as frequent as they would have liked it to
be, causing major delay in sales. Without cold storage, they cannot accumulate the quantity of milk and
butter which would make a significant difference in the economic efficiency of the market activities. This
point was stressed repeatedly, showing an appreciable sophistication of technological inputs which would
improve their economic performance as women and as economic actors in the dairy industry.
4. Analysis and Conclusion of Field Data
The sample provided an interesting glimpse of very independent village people who value their ability to
manage and direct their own lives without excessive dependence on others, whether neighbors or the
Government. It is clear that in each case village residents made a conscious decision to remain in their
villages and resist deserting what they consider an inherited good, both in the social and economic sense.
There appears to be a strong cultural emphasis on self-reliance and discipline in each case, as well as
significant importance placed on consensus building as a decision-making strategy. There is also an
observable attempt, and in some cases, observable success, in maintaining the integrity of the community
by placing high value on adult education, early childhood and youth education, and youth employment.
Several correlations can be made between the stories of the various villages discussed above. One is that
the geographic isolation of these villages is linked with the practice of livestock rearing. Another is that all
villages have male leaders who have spent some time in large cities in Senegal or abroad. A third is the
-88 -



presence of strong local leadership in the form of an elder kinsman and his wife, also originating from a
common ethnic or kin-related background. Even in the case of Mbelogne (Mataam) where the population is
made up of black Moors and Tukolor (Hal-Pulaaren), kinship was easily recognizable as a significant
factor of social cohesion; there was observable strong presence and participation of young men in the
village life, and leadership was a function of the historic background of the village and resulting
kin-networks. In Mbelogne, Moor families and Hal-Pulaaren families are inter-related by family ties that
are deeper than the present generation and extend back to the founding of the village.
Women in all villages were vocal and presented their perceptions during village-wide meetings as well as
apart in their own meetings with the team. In no case did we find that women's aspirations were opposed to
what their husbands expressed as future and current needs for their development. Occasionally, priorities
differed between men and women, as the men seemed more concerned about infrastructure issues such as
electricity and roads than the women. In Thianga Omar Gueye and in Mbelogne, livestock trading was an
important feature of the local economy. In Thianga Omar Gueye young men took the animals to Mabo
market, while in Mbelogne, villagers relied on a network of three to four neighboring towns for marketing
their animals. In all cases, herd off-take strategies included exploitation of two or three herds: sheep,
goats, and cattle. In all cases, livestock theft was a major issue, and rural insecurity was identified as a
major development problem as much effort had to go into surveillance of animals, and losses were
significant given the economic value of livestock units.
In all the villages visited, the married women are housewives, but who carry out some secondary economic
activities. In the case of Malika sur Mer which is typically Fulbe, the women go to town to sell milk from
their cows. They share this vocation with the women of Kadialele in Casamance and Belel Doulo in the
Ferlo (Linguere), as well as Soumboudaka. It should be noted that four out of the six villages visited were
primarily Haal-pulaaren and that their major economic activity was livestock raising. Of the two that were
not, one, Keur Ibra Fall, was mixed Fulbe and Wolof, and the major economic activity was directly related
to livestock raising, as most of the young men were tiafunke, or livestock traders. The occupation of
livestock trader in addition to farmer was shared across ethnic lines. The chief of the village of Keur lbra
Fall was the son of tradesman himself, although his father was a dry goods tradesman. Like the chief of
Malika-sur-Mer, the chief of Keur Ibra Fall had significant urban-related experience, having worked in an
arms factory towards the end of World War II. In the village of Soumbourdaka, which was also a
Haal-Pulaar village (Bakel department, eastem Senegal), we found several household heads who had
formerly been migrant workers in Dakar and in France. They had retumed voluntarily to village life in the
hopes of improving living conditions for their families. The one village that had a very small Hal-Pulaar
population was Thianga Omar Gueye. Yet, even in this village, many of the young men worked to
maintain the village livestock herds. In addition, during the historical profile we learned that the village
was founded by Fulbe and Wolof families together, who migrated from Nioro-du-Rip. In fact, the term
"Thianga" in Pulaar, means valley, according to Paul Grenier, 1960, p. 28, referring to the Ferlo region.
There were 12 large carre, or extended families, in this village. Some of the male heads of household had
also studied Quran and Arabic writing during short residences in larger villages and neighboring towns.
Most of the men work as seasonal agricultural workers.
Villagers were found to have intimate knowledge about their surrounding natural resources, the local
administrations that govem their areas, and local economics. They are less well-informed about recent
gains in technology or newer Govemment policy development. There is a real need for improved
information networks in the rural sector. Rural people can make better decisions when they are better
informed.
The villages which the team visited have, through the last two decades, been fairly culturally conservative.
- 89 -



Their geographic isolation is a chosen condition, and the elders in these villages are able to exercise a level
of social control that might not have been possible in larger or more cosmopolitan villages. In Malika sur
Mer, village chief fought his way to notoriety as a consequence of protecting his household and
surrounding lands from urban encroachment.
In each case villagers were interviewed about what they foresaw as potential problems should an externally
funded development project be initiated in their village. The response of all villagers was that inasmuch as
their aim is to solidify family and community ties by creating disincentives to out-migration, and since
many of the neighboring villages included relatives of theirs, they did not percei-ve any threats to their social
solidarity or existing local institutions in the implementation of a development project or development
activities in their communities. Most of what villagers want to do is a resumption and improvement of
what they did successfully in the past, rather than the initiation of new and unknown activities. This
includes improving their current methods of farming, improving their knowledge of livestock management,
increasing their ability to record their commercial transactions, and increasing the number of children in
school as well as the time (years spent) in school. Their perception is that with more education and training
opportunities, they will be able to increase production levels, manage their money better, and create more
cash-earning opportunities. Both men and women called for training in literacy, numeracy, and agricultural
and artisanal skills.
In Thianga Omar Gueye, young men expressed the need for more training in vocational skills such as
carpentry, metal work, and machine mechanics, as did the youth of Keur Ibra Fall and Kadialele. In all
villages except Belel Doulo, men assisted women in the search for wood, and in two cases, found wood was
an important economic factor for income generation.
- 90 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
Mainstreaming Gender into the SDF Project
Introduction
The Social Investment Fund Project for Senegal is designed to contribute towards poverty reduction. The
main objective of the project is to contribute to the sustainable reduction of the proportion of women and
youth living below the poverty line. More specifically, the project aims to: offer micro-credit to poor
women and youth; improve access to basic infrastructure and social services in poverty-stricken zones; and
improve the capacity of NGOs and CBOs to address poverty reduction. In-order to design specific
strategies to combat women's and youth's poverty, the situation of women should be known. Section one
offers a brief overview of their situation. Section two will outline a gender framework for poverty analysis
and, section three will look at strategies for mainstreaming gender into the SDF.
Section one: Overview of women in Senegal
Research throughout Sub-Saharan Africa has revealed that poverty affect women and youth, the most
active category of the population in a substantial way. In Senegal 51 % of the population are women, and
61 % of them are living in the rural areas. Due to unemployment, low productivity and low income, they
continue to be a very vulnerable group. Eighteen percent of Senegalese households are now headed by
women. Fifty-six percent of these families have 5 to 11 dependents.
The illiteracy rate for women is 66% and for men for 47%, and the female drop-out rate is high. The
majority of young rural women (80%) aged 15-39 are illiterate. Ninety percent of the women living in the
regions of Diourbel, Tambacounda, Kolda, and Louga are illiterate, and 65-70% of women living in
Kaolack, Fatick, St. Louis and Thies are also illiterate. A recent analysis in the country showed that
children of illiterate mothers are 50% more likely to die in childhood, and illiterate women want 1.8 more
children on the same income as literate mothers.
The literacy rate for girls is lower than boys. In 1997, only 44% of girls were enrolled in primary schools.
The problem is worse in the rural areas and among the poorest families. Many factors which contribute to
this problem include: institutional constraints, lack of access to schooling, poverty, socio-cultural factors,
and macro-economic conditions. As a result only 10% of poor rural households can read and write.
Due to the low level of literacy, and other factors, only 6% of women are found in the formal sector and
they are concentrated in low paying, low skill type of work. Less than 3% of women in the formal sector
held higher level jobs in the medical, legal, and academic fields.
Rural Sector
Women represent about half of the labor force engaged in agriculture, which is their main source of
employment (over 60%). Peanuts and millets are the main crops followed by maize, rice, cotton, and
vegetables. Women do not have firm traditional rights over land, their right of access to land must be
renewed every cropping season, with the compound head maintaining the right to take the land away from
them.
Women perform the majority of agricultural work. With the exception of land clearing, women are involved
-91 -



in all agricultural tasks. During the harvest season, women commonly work very long hours 13 to 15 of
which seven are spent in the fields, where they perform the most labor demanding chores like seeding,
weeding, harvesting, and threshing; during the dry season women spend more time in gathering wood,
making crafts, and doing other jobs around the compound. Their leisure time is associated with light
household chores and off-farm activities such as marketing or water collection.
Women face serious time constraints due to the multiplicity of different activities undertaken
simultaneously, such as child care, agricultural work, cooking, cleaning, and water and firewood collection.
Women work longer hours than men. Their days are fragmented as they change from one activity to the
next. They have less free time and limited choices for social interaction. Agricultural practices in women's
plots are completely manual and the technology used is very rudimentary. They barely have access to
agricultural extension and farm inputs.
Informal Sector
The majority of women play a key role in the informal sector where they perform a wide range of
income- generating activities from trade, handcraft to food processing and catering. Studies have revealed
that women represent the majority of agents in the informal sector, and they hold the monopoly of food
trade in markets all over the country. However they suffer serious constraints of limited access to basic
social services; land, credit, infrastructure, legal and regulatory framework, agricultural inputs, and
technology. As a result, they are concentrated in less skilled, less capital intensive and low productive
activities that do not provide full-time employment.
Legal Status
In Senegal, the legal system is a complex interaction of statutory, customary and Islamic law. After
independence, a western-inspired constitution was adopted, however, personal affairs are still conducted in
accordance with unwritten customary and Islamic laws. The Senegalese constitution has ratified most
international conventions, which suppressed any form of discrimination based on gender. For example, the
family law adopted in 1972 represented a major step for women, as it introduced measures in support of
women's rights and established certain equality in a couple's marriage. The family law also outlawed the
custom which forced a widowed woman to marry her husband's brother, but this is still practiced in rural
areas today.
The labor code specified that no gender distinction should be made in the application of the law, but women
are still excluded from certain activities which are deemed as men's work. Women are discriminated in both
their access to employment and training. High-level goverrment jobs are strongly male dominated, and the
principle of equal work for equal pay is ambivalent because in some industries, women are paid by the
task, while men receive a daily age. This results in lower pay for women. Their access to salaried job is
also constrained by other factors which interfere with their domestic responsibilities such as: long working
hours, difficulty commuting from home to work, insufficient social services such as day care centers, and
poor access to water.
The land law inacted in 1964 stated that all land belonged to the state. This law granted farmers equal
access to land regardless of caste or gender. This automatically illegalized the inegalitarian aspects of
customary land tenure. The 1972 administrative reform established a system of local govemment to
manage rural land in a way that reflected local priorities and conditions. Land is still distributed according
to customary law. There is evidence that social inequalities still persist and that the powerful who have a
strong presence in rural councils where women are not present, are still able to manipulate the land
allocation system to the detriment of small farmers and women in particular.
- 92 -



Health Status
Women suffer from low health and nutritional status. The average life expectance at birth is 48 years, and
in 1990, the infant and child mortality rate (under 5) is 84 and 184 per 100,000. Senegal's maternal
mortality rate is ranked as one of the highest rate in the world, and it is the leading cause of death among
women of reproductive age with 9 per 1,000. In addition, many women suffer from serious illnesses
related to pregnancy or child birth. Women use less health care facilities than they need. Their demand for
health services is low due to several reasons: inadequate access to antenatal care, inadequate manpower
and equipment, illiteracy about health care issues, cultural beliefs, and lack of resources and transportation
to access the health care system, and most of all, lack of adequate information.
There is a high rate of malnutrition among the Senegalese population, with women and children affected the
most. Nutrition surveys carried out in the country revealed a high level of maternal malnutrition, and
serious micro-nutrient deficiencies. Some 44% of adolescent females and 36% of adult females are
suffering from anemia. There is a high level of under nutrition among children under 5 years. Health
records revealed that the low birth weight of infants is another indicator for maternal malnutrition.
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs ere becoming a serious health problem for women. A recent survey
revealed a high incidence of STDs among pregnant women; 90% of women surveyed tested positive for
gonorrhea, 5% for syphilis, and 25% for trichomones. The effects of STDs can be devastating. About 1%
of the population are infected with the HIV/AIDS virus. The implications for women can be severe. They
are usually responsible for caring for the sick (children and elderly) taking them back and forth to hospitals
and taking care of most nutritional and medical needs. Thus, there is a great need to heighten understanding
and urgency of the health problems through effective advocacy and awareness raising.
Youth
Youth in Senegal faced considerable constraints as well. The unemployment rate for youth between the
ages of 17-35 is 40% in the urban areas, compared to 29% of the total population. This is mainly due to
their lack of education and training. Primary school enrollment rate is 62% and the drop-out rate is a high
75%. Twenty-three percent of children under 5 years suffer from malnutrition. Young adults and
adolescents are especially vulnerable to HIV/AIDS, and other STDs.
Due to the dismal conditions of women and youth, the SDF Project is designed specifically to target and
reduce the proportion of women and youth living below the poverty line. However, in order to fully design a
project that will really reflect the needs and realities of women and youth (including poor boys and men),
we must understand the roles they play, the constraints they face, and their needs or interests. The next
section outlines a gender analysis framework.
Section two: A gender framework for poverty analysis
Understanding the role of women
0      In Senegal, men and women play different roles due to the socialization process. The overwhelming
majority of women are conditioned by male-dominated institutions governing the family, society, and
the economy. By custom, the life of a woman is shaped by the patriarchal nature of the social system.
Her reproductive role is emphasized by social, cultural, and religious traditions. To fulfill this role, a
girl is married-off at puberty and immediately begins to reproduce. She is immediately classified as a
mother and housewife responsible for reproductive work within the household. The division of labor
reflects the different roles played by men and women, which in tum leads to a highly segregated labor
market by gender. In both the urban and rural contexts women usually undertake productive work in
the house or nearby to balance it with reproductive work. In cases where women have to travel for
- 93 -



work, other females automatically take over their reproductive work.
Understanding gender analysis
An understanding that the role of men and women differ their constraints, opportunities, needs, and
incentives also differ, as a result, their priorities differ will enable us to design appropriate strategies for
gender intervention. This can be achieved through gender analysis. It involves asking questions about the
differences between men's and women's activities, roles, and resources to identify development needs.
Assessing these differences makes it possible to determine men and women's constraints and opportunities.
Gender analysis can help ensure provision of services that men and women want and that are appropriate to
their circumstances. This requires understanding men's and women's role in the sector by analyzing
quantitative and qualitative information about their activities, resources and constraints, and benefits and
incentives.
This is why it is important to incorporate social and gender analysis into the project preparation and
implementation process. Stakeholder analysis is a tool for understanding the context within which a project
is designed and operate. Stakeholder analysis will help in identifying the various groups of stakeholders
along with the appropriate degree of their involvement in a project or sector activity. This will bring to light
the different roles played by community men and women and the different incentives that motivate them.
Since men and women usually belong to different sub-groups of stakeholders, they will have different levels
of involvement in projects. Stakeholder analysis will also bring to light the different socio-cultural factors
that need to be considered for project sustainability. The diagram below is a gender analysis framework
that sheds light on various variables that interplay in communities. Understanding this dynamism will
enable any project to be gender inclusive.
The first component is the activity profile, which identifies what men and women do (in this case we can
include youth), and where and when they do these activities. It is based on the gender division of labor and
defines the productive and reproductive activities of the project population by gender, age, ethnicity, social
class, and other characteristics.
The second component is the access and control profile. This investigates what resources are available for
individuals to pursue their activities, what benefits they derive from utilizing resources, and what gender
patterns exists in access to and control over resources. Resources may include labor, time, capital, land,
training, and education and knowledge building.
The third component is the determinants, which overarches all the factors. It is the determinants that shape
the context for carrying out the different activities, allocating resources, and making decisions. They
include: cultural factors, social norms, traditions, religion, and organizational and institutional
arrangements. In the application of gender analysis framework, the determinants are considered first
because, they shape the project environment. The next section will focus on strategies for including gender
into the SDF Project.
Section three: Strategies for mainstreaming gender into the SDFP
In analyzing the logical framework from a gender perspective, the following recommendations are made.
- 94 -



1.    Gender training is needed for the team that will conduct social/needs assessment based on the
economic, social, and technical situation of each community in a zone. Because the findings of the needs
assessment will help in designing appropriate strategies and interventions for poverty reduction in a
community, it is critical that the assessment be done in a qualitative/participatory manner with gender
issues in mind. This involves looking at the differences between men and women's activities, roles, and
resources in order to identify their development needs. Assessing these differences, makes it possible to
determine men's and women's constraints and opportunities. This will ensure provision of services that are
appropriate to their situation. Being aware of these differences will also enable communities to be more
supportive in achieving sustainable development. If possible a gender expert should be in the team
2.    Projects or sub-projects that will be designed from the needs assessments must be driven by the
demands of men, women, and youth in a community in order to achieve community participation and
development. Therefore it is important to structure project rules and procedures to facilitate participation of
men, women and youth. It is equally important to make projects flexible, so that gender issues that are
learned may be adressed appropriately. It is equally important to base men's and women's involvement on
the local cultural context. The socio-economic and cultural factors that determine the status of women
within their given community and context must be taken into consideration in designing a project. This will
help avoid negative impacts in any given project.
3.    In conducting research on how people perceive poverty, it is important to have the perception of
men's, women's, and youth's view of what poverty means to them. This will enable us to know which
group is affected the most and will help us design appropriate strategies for interventions.
4.    The team conducting the assessment should pay particular attention to women's workload and its
implications.
5.    Any time that research is conducted, the data must be desegregated by gender. This is particularly
important when it comes to measuring household living conditions. Having a global figure for who the
poor are will not tell us the condition of women or youth. Desegregating the data will help us analyze the
real situation of men, women, and children based on the indicators that the researchers are using. For
example, if research is done on income, we would like to know men's income, women's income and
children's if there is any, also the sources of income based on gender differences should be collected.
Quantifying this data will allow us to see the many unpaid activities that women perform in and would thus
develop strategies for increasing the income level of women.
6.    In addition to desegregating data by gender, it is equally important to desegregate it.by age, marital
status, ethnicity, and socio-economic status. Because a community is not a homogeneous group, the level
or degree of poverty varies even among women based on their location in the stratified group. For example,
female headed households with 11 dependants, no education, and limited capacity are considered to be the
poorest.
7.    Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring should be an ongoing activity accompanying the
implementation process. M&E can be undertaken with specific questions using gender planning tools. One
such tool, gender roles identification, can be used in monitoring the impact of the project. As the project is
being implemented, the following questions are asked:
* What will be the impact on women in their productive role? Will the project positively or negatively
affect women's access to: land, opportunities for paid employment, the labor of other household
members for economic activities, existing new technology, credit, particularly where formal collateral
arrangements for women are not available, skill training and information, income generation for her
productive work, and basic social services?
*   What will be the impact on women in their reproductive role? Will the program positively/negatively
-95 -



affect women's access to: the labor of other household members for domestic work; items of household
consumption such as firewood or water; basic services such as health clinics, transport; food for
adequate nutrition; land for housing; and income generation for the household?
*   What will be the impact on women in their community managing role? Will the project
positively/negatively affect women's access to: existing community level decision making; new
community level decision making introduced by the project; and income, particularly where the project
relies on their voluntary labor?
* What will be the impact on women's ability to balance their triple role? Will the project increase
women's work in one of their roles to the detriment of their other roles. For example, if increased time
is required in productive work, will this reduce their capacity to undertake existing tasks in their triple
role?
Since the overall objectives of SDF is to facilitate the process through which poor communities participate
in economic and social activities leading to sustainable development, a closer look at each component from
a gender perspective is required to achieve this goal.
Component One: Access to basic social infrastructure and services improved.
Enabling women to have access to basic social infrastructure and services and improving and utilizing the
existing infrastructure within their communities, could lead to poverty reduction and the improvement in the
household living conditions. Since women are the primary care givers and responsible for maintenance of
the household, providing them with access to health, education, water, and other social services will have a
significant impact on lives in the community. Each component will be looked at from a gender perspective.
Health:
Women's fertility, health, and economic well-being are closely linked. Because they are married at an early
age, women are pregnant or breastfeeding at least 16 years of their reproductive life. This long period
places heavy demands on women's health and energy and severely restricts the type of economic activity
they can undertake, the length of time they can devote to it, their productivity, and their ability to migrate.
In addition, they suffer from low health and nutritional status. Many factors contribute to women's poor
health. It is, therefore, important to include women in the design and delivery of health care. For that, the
following gender issues should be taken into account:
What are the different kinds of health services available in a community?
VWho uses it and how often?
What are the conditions of those that are available?
Is there a user fee? Is it affordable to men, women, and youth?
What time do health services operate? Do they take women's needs into consideration?
Are the staff gender sensitive?
What is their attitude towards the very poor and handicaped
When do men, women, and youth use these facilities, does their use vary by season?
What are the reproductive health needs--family planning, prenatal care, and STD diagnosis and
treatment of men and women? Are the reproductive services addressing these needs and in what way may
they be different for men and women?
What differences exist in the health risks for men and women and how do these differ in terms of
timing, severity, prevention, and treatment? What are the implications in terms of health service delivery?
What is the incidence of AIDS and STDs by sex and what are the trends, and do information
campaigns address gender needs?
- 96 -



Strategies for improving women's health include:
1.    Improving their access to health services as well as reorienting the health care system to meet
women's needs. Some diseases, including HIV and other STDs, afflict women more than men, so
programs to control and prevent these diseases should have a strong gender focus. Health staff at all levels
should be sensitized to women's needs and problems.
2.    Bringing services closer to home will reduce their costs and time spent in travel. Improving
women's access to services requires improving outreach and expanding primary health care. More women
can be reached if the quality of health care at the periphery is strengthened.
3.    Integrating non-government providers into the health system. Many women, particularly those
living in the rural areas, visit traditional healers for various social, economic, and cultural reasons.
Emphasis should be placed on providing intensive training programs to the traditional birth attendants and
private practitioners as well as strengthening their links to the health care system. This would improve
women's access to health care.
4.     Supporting and intensifying information, education, and communication activities to provide
detailed information about contraceptives and where to get them. Various channels of communication
should be advocated, taking women's illiteracy into consideration, their access to such information, and
education.
5.    Involving male partners more in family planning and contraceptive use may increase the use of
contraception among women. Sensitizing men, counseling, and addressing their misgivings about
contraception might prove to be a better strategy than targeting women alone.
6.     Building consensus among parents, teachers, and religious bodies on how to address young adult's
reproductive and health care needs. There needs to be a very clear policy on how much and what type of
information to give to young people, at what age, and what mechanism to use to distribute information.
7.     Extending and strengthening family life education. The national school curriculum needs to convey
accurate, useful information about reproduction, safe sex, and AIDS STDs. A separate plan should be
developed to reach out of school young adult.
8.    Using religious education and religious leaders to preach to the public on appropriate social
behavior and conduct can be an effective tool for preventing STDs.
Community Education
Research has shown that educating women and girls is the single most important investment for social and
economic development. A plethora of research and evidence have been documented, including from the
World Bank. Women and girls face several barriers to education. Removing the barriers will enable
women to participate fully in economic and social development. In designing and delivering education
programs, the following gender issues should be taken into account:
what are the reasons for low enrollment;
what gender differences exist in literacy rates, educational enrollment and attaimnent, drop-out and
retention rates, and reasons for school drop-out;
what are the implications of gender differences in terms of programs designed to increase boys' and
girls' educational achievement levels;
*     are education programs tailored to the needs and circumstances of boys and girls;
-     are there differences in the type and quality of informal and formal training available to women and
men;
is there a trade-off between school and market or home-based work for boys and girls;
does lack of child care differentially affect boys' and girls' school attendance;
what are the implications of boys and girls market and home-based work on programs designed to
increase educational attainment and achievement
- 97 -



Strategies for improving women's/girls' education
In order to strengthen women's role in the national economy, it is essential to improve their education.
However, if schooling is unlikely to result in higher income, better jobs, a better lifestyle, or the acquisition
of skills needed for daily life, there will be little motivation for education. And when the barriers to labor
markets or cultural norms in society prevent women from taking up formal employment, the return to girls'
education are perceived as low. Strategies for improving women's/girls' education include:
1.     Addressing girls' time constraints. Interventions that reduce demands on women's time will
increase the likelihood of girls' education. Providing school-based child care would free girls from sibling
care commitments and permit them to go to school.
2.     Offering a more flexible school schedule. Girls are often overloaded with both reproductive and
productive work. Therefore, school hours should be organized to avoid conflict with girls' household and
other tasks. Schools that operate double shifts should give households the flexibility in selecting time slots
appropriate for their daughters.
3.     Increasing access to the education system will reduce distance and increase girls' enrollment.
4.     Subsidizing girls' education. High direct costs of educafing girls can be reduced through subsidies.
Girls' enrollment and academic performance can be improved by providing incentives, such as
scholarships, fee waivers, and free textbooks, particularly in remote areas, where girls' enrollment is very
low.
5.     Organizing information, education, and communication campaigns to encourage investing in girls'
education. A nation-wide campaign directed mainly at parents and community leaders could provide
information about the economic and social benefits of girls' education and raise awareness. Religious
leaders should be used to advocate the importance of education, especially female education.
6.     Improving the quality of education by reforming the curriculum, textbooks, testing, and teacher
training.
7.     Making the school environment more gender-sensitive. This entails gender training for teachers,
and creating school facilities that meets girls' needs.
8.     Recruiting more women teachers, especially in the rural areas and providing them with incentives
to stay in their recruited positions.
9.     Providing community managed schools. This will enable parents and associations to be actively
involved in the maintenance of schools and be involved in decision making that affect their children's
education.
10.    Expanding non-formal education for out of school girls and women. The literacy project is doing
quite well in reaching and educating illiterate women.
Water
Women with the help of their children are the primary collectors, users, and managers of water in the
household. They select water sources on the basis of their perception about access, quantity, quality and
reliability of facilities, and the time and effort required to use them. Women have a strong influence on
household sanitary habits and overall use of the facilities.
-98 -



In addition, they are traditionally responsible for disposing household waste and educating and training
children in hygiene. Water plays an integral role in women's development. Clean and safe water are needed
for cooking and drinking, water is needed for washing, cleaning, building, and farming. The type and
source of water consumed determines the health of the woman and the household. The following gender
issues should be addressed in designing and implementing strategies for water:
Are there significant gender differentials in access, use, and acceptability of water facilities
Do women use safe water sources, and what is their source of water
Has the coverage of underserved water supply decreased or increased over the past
Is there awareness about hygienic behavior among the community overall, and among men,
women, and children
Do men, women, and children adopt health-promotion behaviors
How do women store drinking water at home, and what are the health or hygienic implications
Has the distance and time taken to collect water increased or decreased over time
Component two: Micro-finance
Women in Senegal are very active economically in the informal sector, and the majority of women in this
sector perform income-generating activities. Improving their productivity is critical to reducing poverty
and achieving sustainable development. Developing women-owned enterprises enables women to meet their
current needs, augment their earnings from income-generating activities, and acquire resources for future
investments. However, their success in business activities is constrained by cultural, educational, and
economic factors. Improving their prospects will require expanding the financial and business support
services available to micro-enterprises, a sector in which women predominate.
Constraints women face
Limited access to financial services
Cultural norms
Household responsibilities
Women working from home face serious handicaps in reaching clients in central districts and
reaching more lucrative markets due to lack of access to infrastructure and social services
Level of education and skills
In addition, women have trouble meeting bank requirements due to lack of collateral. Persistent cultural
norms may also discourage women from seeking loans, a spouse's disapproval, even intimidation may add
to the difficulty a woman faces in getting credit. Therefore, various strategies should be designed to fit
women's needs. Strategies for mainstreaming gender into micro-credit include:
Strengthening Micro-finance Services: Women have traditionally turned to informal financial
institutions for credit which have for a long time provided them with convenient and appropriate financial
services. However few have developed the capacity to reach a large number of women, particularly the
very poor and marginalized in a lasting and effective way. Capacity-building support is needed to make
existing programs more efficient and sustainable, broaden their outreach, and provide incentives to design
new programs. The following are guidelines for supporting micro-finance institutions.
Institutions should:
I.    Redesign their programs to accommodate gender-targeting mechanisms; for example, modifying
collateral requirements so that women can qualify; consider illiteracy in procedures and marketing; increase
the number of female officers; and remove from existing programs inadvertent barriers to women's
participation. For example, eligibility restrictions that exclude sectors in which women predominate, and
-99 -



lending requirements that call for a spouse's counter signature.
2.     Provide credit services that respond to the preference of poor entrepreneurs and women
3.     Streamline operating procedures
4.     Provide a serious loan collection attitude based on the fact that the economically disadvantaged and
women clients can indeed repay their loans
5.     Set interest rates and fees just high enough to cover costs
6.     Give their clients liquidity by imposing few or no restrictions on access to their saving
7.     Offer more convenient locations and hours of operation
8.     Accept very small deposits and tom or worn bills
9.     Build confidence and trust among clients
10.   Build linkages and networks among other institutions; for example, a cooperative relationship
between the informal sector and NGOs in partnership with the formal banking sector could improve the
flow of information and fumds
11.   Enable NGOs and informal agents to introduce women to financial discipline and enable them to
build favorable savings and credit records, reinvest internal resources, and build their business skills
12.    Set policies that would protect women from excessive interest rates on loans
13.   Introduce legal reform within the system to modify the collateral and foreclosure policies to be
more gender- responsive; this would reduce the transaction costs for contract monitoring and enforcement
which have traditionally made lending to women difficult
14.    Find other substitutes for collateral in cases where women's access to finance is restricted by
custom and land rights.
Component three: Provision of training and education
One way to help self-employed women become more productive is to teach basic business, financial and
leadership skills in education and literacy programs for women. Such programs would be effective if they
have women on their staff to promote and deliver services and use community networks and self- help
groups accepted by women. More female loan officers need to be trained and more business women
should be encouraged to serve as mentors for other women. Another way of increasing productivity is to
give girls greater access to education and training; this is central to improving women's ability to succeed
in business
Provision of business support services
CBOs and NGOs must be provided with services to serve the interests of the poor. They should be
equipped to offer grassroots management training to improve the business skills of poor, often illiterate
women. Women should be empowered to improve their ability to select viable projects, plan their business
and increase savings and profits. This support service should be made easily accessible to all women.
Support should be appropriate to the level of the business activity. For example, community-based
education programs can be a suitable optioni for subsistence activities. Women, whose micro enterprised
are not stable, can benefit from groups that can provide support and channel assistance to them. The
Govemment should recognize how much informal activities are contributing to the national welfare and
improve the climate for entrepreneurs. This includes creating policies favorable to women's needs.
Component four: Building the capacity of the steering committee at the national level to manage and
coordinate the poverty program in Senegal
In building the capacity of the steering committee, care must be taken to ensure that gender needs are taken
into consideration. The members of the committee must be trained in gender issues. At least 30% of the
- 100 -



group should be women. The institutional constraints that foster a negative environment for gender issues
must be alleviated. This involve changes in behavior and attitudes. Policies to improve the status of women
must be mainstreamed into the manual of procedures. Decision makers must have the political will to
incorporate gender into the poverty program.
Conclusion
Gender analysis provides visibility to the importance of gender variables in project design. For sustainable
development to occur, recognizing that men and women play a complementary role in Senegalese society
will enable us to design projects that will serve the needs and interests of the community. This will become
a reality only when the separate roles of men and women are understood.
- 101 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Note on Strategy for Poverty Targeting in the Social Development Fund Project
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
The Social Development Fund (SDF) Project aims to alleviate poverty in Senegal through increased
access to basic social services (component 1), micro-finance (component 2), capacity building at the
community level (component 3), and the establishment of a poverty-monitoring system (component 4).
This objective cannot be achieved without a good understanding of poverty in Senegal in terms of its
characteristics, dimensions, density, and geographic impact.
The development of a poverty-targeting strategy is crucial to ensure that the project meets its
objectives. This note aims to outline the strategy underlying the SDF Project.
It is primarily components 1 & 3 of the project that have a strategy of direct targeting, with regard to
geographic area of intervention, type of intervention and specific beneficiary sub-groups. Component 2
will target the same geographic areas as components 1 & 3. However, specific beneficiary sub-groups
will not be directly targeted, nor will specific activities be given preference. The approach taken is that
components 1 & 3 will serve to develop poor areas resulting in them being targeted by participating
financial institutions (PFIs) and savings and credit associations (SCAs). Component 2 will focus
primarily on the PFIs and SCAs themselves on the areas of technical advice and capacity building.
Components I & 3 are viewed as complementary to each other. These components target the poorest
and most vulnerable groups in rural and urban Senegal, to increase the capacity of these groups to
manage their own development, such as increasing their access to basic social services.
Poverty in Senegal is largely a rural phenomenon. However, given the economic and social
relationships between the rural and urban sectors, the SDF will target both. This will be done keeping
in mind the different nature of poverty in villages and cities, and the need to design initiatives to
respond to them. Poverty in rural areas is characterized by a lack of access to basic social
infrastructure (water, health, education, and markets), whereas the main issues in the urban areas is
high unemployment rates, juvenile delinquency, prostitution, the use of drugs and violence.
Rural-urban migration is an increasing phenomenon in Senegal which needs to be addressed if
poverty-alleviation efforts in the country are to have an impact. The targeted areas for the pilot project
reflect this recognition of the rural-urban link and the need for an integrated approach to development.
A two-pronged strategy of poverty mapping/targeting has been adopted to provide both quantitative and
qualitative data. This exercise has been carried out as part of component 4 and will form the base data
for all future poverty initiatives in the country. This initiative has used both the more classical
statistical survey-based methodology of poverty mapping to enable standardized comparisons across
the country, as well as Participatory Poverty Assessments (PPAs). Such a strategy is designed to
present a more dynamic picture of the ground reality.
The primary activity for building a poverty database involved a detailed survey of all rural villages
(13,390 in total) in Senegal. The survey collected information on each village concerning the access to
infrastructure (drinking water, roads, health post, school, and hop/market), using specified distance
criteria. The villages, grouped into rural communities known as 'communautes rurales' (CRs)
- 102 -



(administrative units comprising a number of villages) were given indices and ranked in order of their
lack of access to infrastructure. This variable has been used as the main proxy indicator of poverty for
this study. Villages that fell into the same category of infrastructure access (i.e., having the same
index), were re-ranked using the variables of population lacking access to drinking water at the village
level, access to drinking water is seen to be crucial for development as it is important to prevent
out-migration. It is only if villagers can see a future in the village, that they will be motivated to invest
in its development and revenue activity.
Using the five main criteria of infrastructure access (described above), the index of access ranges from
0 to 500, where 0 represents a CR with no infrastructure (except in most cases a traditional well), and
500 represents one that has adequate access to all basic infrastructure (as defined above). Thus for
phase 1 of the project, CRs with an index of 200 or below will be targeted in specified regions. These
villages are the poorest in the country and lack basic development needs such as water, health and
education access, and markets.
Phase I of the project is a preparatory phase which aims at setting up the project structure, ensuring
that mechanisms for delivery are in place, and testing the economic and social viability of sub-projects.
Hence this phase will include some pilot projects, the main aim of which will be to compare various
strategies for community development and test the efficiency and rationale of the delivery mechanism
(community disbursement, procurement, project management, and monitoring).
One strategy will be to target an entire CR and an urban sub-district ('quartier') and finance a local
integrated development plan founded on a PPA. Another strategy will be to fund individual
sub-projects initiated by community-based groups at the village level or within the target urban areas.
These projects will only be funded if they are represented in the needs assessment PPA which will take
into account priorities of CBOs, other community-based groups, and vulnerable sub-sections of the
c-ommunity. The pilot phase will test both strategies and the expansion phase will be built on the
positive experiences of these strategies.
The pilot phase will target the following rural and urban areas:
CRs with an index of 200 or below in three departments in the region of Louga (Dept. of
Linguere = 14 CR; Dept. of   Louga = 6 CR; Dept. of Kebemer = 6 CR)
CRs having an indice of 200 or below in one department in the region of Kaolack (Dept. of
Kaffrine = 11 CR)
CRs having an index of 200 or below in two departments in the region of Kolda (Dept. of
Kolda = 10 CR; Dept. of           Velingara = 6 CR)
CRs having an indice of 200 or below in one Department in the region of Fatick (Dept. of
Foundiougne = 4 CR)
the urban commune of Linguere, region of Louga
*     the urban commune of Kongheul, Department of Kaffrine, region of Kaolack;
the urban commune of Velingara, Department of Velingara, region of Kolda
the urban commnune of Foundiougne, Departrnent of Foundiougne, region of Fatick
the urban commune of Guinaw Rail, Department of Pikine, region of Dakar
Thus a total of 57 CRs and 5 urban communes will be targeted in the pilot phase.
The targeting of the areas for the pilot phase are based on the following rationale.
(i) The extent ofpoverty: The regions of Kolda and Louga have the largest number of CRs with
- 103 -



indices of 200 or below. Fioundiougne in Fatick is also ranked as one of the poorest departments. The
Department of Kaffrine in the region of Kaolack has one of the highest concentrations of CRs with
indices of 200 or below. The communes chosen are important centers of development for these poor
regions. Guinaw Rail represents one of the poorest slums of the city of Dakar.
(ii) Other donor interventions: The World Bank as the donor of last resort places strong emphasis on
ensuring coordination among poverty-reduction initiatives in the country. The targeting process has
taken into account, other similar initiatives and aimed at concentrating the SDF in areas which are not
being targeted by other donors. Major donors with interventions in the targeted areas are the European
Union - EU, African Development Bank - AfDB, multi-donor based Local Development Fund - LDF.
The kind of intervention and the duration of their projects have also been taken into account.
The entire region of Louga and the Department of Kaffrine in the region of Kaolack are
characterized by an absence of poverty interventions. They dominate the list of areas lacking
interventions submitted by rural leaders.
*     The elimination of the Department of Sedhiou in Kolda region is based on the presence of the
AfDB and LDF in the area.
*     The region of Tamba, although ranked as the region with the highest number of CRs after
Louga and Kolda, was eliminated because of the presence of similar projects throughout the region
(AfDB and LDF).
*     The commune of Kongheul was chosen instead of Kaffrine which is the Department capital as
it is a relatively new commune and has had much less investment than Kaffrine which has attracted
substantial investment.
Although there is the presence of the EU in the Department of Kolda, it was retained as a target
region for the SDF as the size of the project is not significant. Moreover, the EU initiative focuses
primarily on capacity building of rural groups. Thus it will be interesting to test how the SDF initiative
can build on the EU project.
*     Projects such as the National Rural Infrastructure Project (NRIP), Health Sector Investment
Program (Health SIP) and Quality Education for All (QEFA), all funded by the World Bank, target the
whole country through the project life. Coordination with these projects will be taken into account in
the Manual of Procedures of the SDF. SDF will not fund sub-projects which will be covered by these
projects but may fund activities which build on the benefits of other projects. For example, if a village
needs a school, but has been targeted by the QEFA project, the SDF will not construct a school.
However, it could fund the construction and operation of a school canteen with the aim of extending the
school to reach villages further away whose children may not have access to a home for their midday
meal.
Similarly the AfDB intervention in 60 communes in Senegal will be taken into account at the
level of project activity. Since the AfDB intervention focuses primarily on infiastructure, the SDF will
focus its effort on the other components of the project in the targeted urban areas.
(iii) Diversity: The areas provide a diverse context in which to test the project approach. Louga has
dry and arid terrain inhabited largely by nomadic pastoralists. The Department of Kaffrine in Kaolack
is characterized by its importance as the granary of Senegal (peanuts and millet). Kolda represents a
more forested ecological zone where the main productive activity is agriculture, forest produce, and
sedentary animal husbandry. The inclusion of Foundiougne was based on its high dependence on
fishery and tourism, which provides an interesting context within which to test the project.
(iv) An integrated approach to development: The urban communes chosen (except Guinaw Rail) are
important focus points for development of the regions of Louga, Kolda and Fatick. It was decided that
a strategy of focused interventions would lead to more integrated and sustainable development.
- 104 -



*     The commune of Linguere is the capital of the Department of Linguere. Due to socio-economic
difficulties, the basic conditions of the population are deteriorating rapidly. Emphasis is on improving
the community's ability to better utilize existing infrastructure; IEC for health; and AIDS; prevention
and hygiene would go a long way in improving the conditions of its inhabitants. The project impact in
the Sahelian arid pastoral zone of Louga will be intensified with the development of Linguere as an
urban base. Emphasis will be placed on creating viable linkages between Linguere and the vibrant cattle
center of Dahra.
The commune of Kongheul is a newly growing town that is becoming an increasingly important
commercial center for the rural villages which depend primarily on the cultivation of peanuts and millet.
*     The commune of Velingara was selected for SDF intervention in the rain-fed south-eastern
zone of the country. Despite its apparent deprivation, Velingara is the center of an important
agricultural zone where cotton, rice, and fruit production is developing.
*     The commune of Foundiougne is at the center of the impoverished zone of Fatick. Agriculture
in this zone has shrunk due to the increasing salinization of soil, thereby having a detrimental impact on
rural incomes. Nonetheless, the area is surviving due to the presence of fisheries and tourism, making it
an interesting and different context in which to work.
Guinaw Rail stands out from the other urban targeted areas as its choice was not based on its
importance as a center for surrounding areas. It represents one of the poorest slums in the city of
Dakar. Although it has received much attention recently, and has been the focus of studies, there has
been little impact in terms of poverty reduction. The SDF can build on these initiatives. Guinaw Rail
as a target area complements the other regions as it presents an opportunity to test the SDF mechanisms
and intervention tools in the context of a large metropolis.
(iv) Logistics and expansion: The target areas can be grouped into five eco-geographic zones which is
important for management of the pilot. The five test areas provide a good basis to test the project
strategies and for gradual expansion based on the lessons learned.
The village ranking exercise described above is useful as working framework for poverty alleviation
initiatives within the country. However, the quantitative approach has its limitations and is not a
sufficient basis for project assessment. For instance, the survey would enable one to distinguish
between villages that had pumped water supply over those which may only have a traditional well.
However, it cannot provide a sense of the condition of the pump, whether it is serving the entire
community or marginalizing some (such as through its location), whether the provision of mechanized
water is at all a priority, or whether the construction of a road linking the village to a nearby market is
more important. Moreover, such a study is not designed to take into account the heterogeneity that
invariably exists in most communities with regard to development access - differences based on age,
gender, and other social barriers such as caste. Such qualitative data is necessary for a more accurate
picture of needs and initiatives at the sub-project level. Keeping this in mind, a PPA will be conducted
in the targeted areas. An important aim of the PPA is be to ensure the participation of the poorer
villages and the marginalized sections of the community that are the main target groups. Thus the PPA
will be conducted at the village level, for all villages within the targeted CRs which have an index of
200 or less. Through the PPA, a needs assessment and a local development plan outlining priority
projects will be developed at the village level, which will feed into the integrated plan for the CR.
Sub-projects financed by the SDF must be identified only by the specified targeted villages (i.e., having
an index of 200 or less) although their implementation will involve planning at the CR level to ensure
that they have the maximum impact.
The project will further focus on targeting specific beneficiary groups that are seen as having less
access to resources, such as women, youth, castes, and economically poorer households. This will be
- 105-



done through the PPA process described above, as well as through beneficiary-selection criteria and
project priority criteria. These will be detailed in the Manual of Procedures.
The pilot phase of the project has thus adopted a strategy of integrated regional development, through a
methodology of participation and project ownership to ensure that the process of development does not
further marginalize the poor, but becomes a vehicle for their development.
Next steps
The main approach and strategy to poverty targeting as described above has been developed in
consultation with representatives from the Ministry of Statistics and the inter-ministerial committee
managing the Programme de Lutte contre la Pauvrete (PLP) within whose framework the SDF is
situated. Although the main rationale informing the choice of target areas has been agreed upon, there
remain a few tasks to complete the excercise. These are outlined below.
(i) The base data available through the World Bank Community Nutrition Project need to be examined
to strengthen the basis of targeting the urban areas for the SDF.
(ii) The table showing major donor intervention (EU, LDF, and AfDB) in SDF areas needs to be
completed. Donor interventions must be indicated with reference to the nature of intervention, area of
intervention (where possible at level of CRs, or at the level of Department), period of intervention, and
size of intervention.
(iii) The three major World Bank funded initiatives mentioned above (QEFA, Health SIP, and NRIP)
need to be detailed in terms of the areas of intervention for each phase of the projects. This is important
to ensure coordination between sub-projects funded by the SDF and these larger projects. Details will
be outlined in the Manual of Procedures.
(iv) The nomadic nature of the inhabitants in Louga needs to be taken into consideration with regard to
infrastructure initiatives in the region. A clear strategy needs to be highlighted in the manual of
procedures.
- 106 -



RURAL COMMUNITIES TARGETED BY THE SDFP
REGIONS CLASSIFED ACCORDING TO DEGREE OF POVERTY
NO. OF CR        NO. OF VILLAGES          POPULATION           AVERAGE ACCESS
____________  ______    _____ _                                               INDEX
REGIONS           TARG.   TOTAL   TARG.    TOTAL   TARG.                TOTAL        TARG.   TOTAL
CR        _         CR                   CR                       CR
LOUGA                   26        48      1419       2 532     207 981     394 751         92         194
KOLDA                   23        43       1417      2 228     282 483     569 842        130         219
TAMBA                   22        35      1 067      1 444     230 007     363 957        132         196
KAOLACK                 14        41        716      2 031     169 835     567 039        111         246
DIOURBEL                 9        32        296      1184       81921      530481         172         313
ZIGUINCHOR               7        25        214       497       80 092     252 950        157         324
FATICK                   6        35        327       945      122 982     502 943        125         314
THIES                    6        31        512      1563       65 650     642 183        158         342
ST-LOUIS                 2        28        120       919       29 140     595 903        150         375
DAKAR                    0         2          0        47            0      57 187          -         500
TOTAL                  115       320      6 088    13 390    1 270 091   4 477 236        126         271
- 107-



CLASSIFICATION OF "DEPARTEMENTS" ACCORDING TO DEGREE OF POVERTY
NO. OF         NO. OF VILLAGES          POPULATION          AVERAGE ACCESS
"COMMUNA UTES                                                           INDEX
RURALES"
REGIONS             TARG.   TOTAL   TARG.   TOTAL    TARG.                TOTAL       TARG.   TOTAL
CR                  CR                   CR                       CR
LINGUERE                   14       17        637       771      111 138     131 781         79       109
KAFFRINE                  I 1       21        559      1 003     125 045     271 672        100       193
KOLDA                      10       13        722       948      118 383     159 439        100       138
TAMBACOUNDA                9        12        650       751      141213      177 227        139       179
KEDOUGOU                   7        10        161       250       42 850      68 614        121       170
SEDHIOU                    7        20        328       779       93 168     292 803        150       268
BAKEL                      6        13        256       443       45 944     118 116        133       231
KEBEMER                    6        16        347       898       35 236     126 501         83       225
VEL1NGARA                  6        10        367       501       70 932     117 600        158       225
LOUGA                      6        15        435       863       61 607     136469         133       257
TIVAOUANE                  6        14        512       976       66 650     185 656        158       275
MBACKE                     4        11         93       335       24 191     253 286        175       300
DIOURBEL                   4        10        145       370       41155       90 601        163       270
FOUNDIOUGNE                4         9        233       356       82 027     147 877        113       222
ZIGUINCHOR                  3        5         60        91       31 391      53 498        167       220
BIGNONA                    3        16        139       327       44 277     171478         150       363
NIORO                      3        11        157       547       44 790     156 432        150       250
GOSSAS                     2        12         94       337       40 955     133 724        150       300
OUSSOUYE                    1        4         15        79        4 424      27 794        150       300
MATAM                       1       12         57       342        9 238     238 227        150       383
BAMBEY                      1       11         58       479       16 575     186 594        200       364
DAGANA                      1        6         63       334       19 902     150 676        150       325
RUFISQUE                   0         2          0        47            0      57 187          -       500
PODOR                      0        10          0       243            0     207 000          -       395
KAOLACK                    0         9          0       481            0     138 935          -       367
MBOUR                      0         8          0        189           0     220 489          -       381
THIES                      0         9          0       398            0     236 038          -       411
FATICK                     0        14          0       352            0     221 342          -       386
TOTAL                    115       320      6 088     13 390    1 270 091   4 477 236       126       271
Terms of Reference for Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) Team
Background of the Social Development Fund Proiect
The Government of Senegal has developed a framework for poverty reduction in the form of the PLP. The
Social Development Fund (SDF) Program was conceived within this framework to ensure that its efforts to
reduce poverty in Senegal are part of the country's long-term poverty strategy. The SDF Program is,
therefore, based on a combination of operational responses and practical instruments aimed at empowering
the poor in order to give them increased access to resources and the ability to maintain resources
through their own organizations in a sustainable manner. The four main component of the SDF project
are:
Component 1: Basic Social Services and Community Infrastructure: The objective of this component is to
- 108-



improve the access of communities in the targeted poorest urban areas and rural villages to basic social
services and infrastructure. More specifically, this component will target vulnerable groups within these
areas and villages. A parallel objective is to empower communities by exposing them to managing the
implementation of sub-projects.
Component 2: Micro-credit: This component aims at supporting existing micro-finance institutions in
expanding their target market by establishing a financial product that reaches a greater number of poor
groups and individuals.
Component 3: This component would enhance the capacity of the CBOs and other community-based
organizations of the poor and vulnerable to manage their own local development and initiatives so that they
become a key catalyst of sustainable grassroots development. To do this, the SDF would make direct grants
(100%) to CBOs and organized groups of vulnerable populations in targeted areas in two major domains:
(i) institutional development, and (ii) capacity building of the human resource base.
Component 4: Poverty Management Systems Development: This component of the SDF Project would aim
at improving the poverty management capacity of Senegal, both in reference to this project and with regard
to poverty efforts at large.
Rationale for the PPA
The project aims to target the poorest communities in Senegal, both urban and rural, who do not have
adequate access to development resources: material, financial, and human. A number of villages for the
pilot phase of the project have been selected on the basis of a country-wide poverty mapping exercise based
on criteria such as geographical isolation, access to basic social services, degree of organized activity, and
population size. A PPA is therefore necessary to have a deeper, contextual understanding of the qualitative
aspects of poverty at the community level.
All projects initiated and proposed by communities will be subject to a selection criteria to ensure that the
process encourages and enables the more vulnerable within poor villages to participate more meaningfully
in the development process. However, other segments of the community will not be excluded. The ultimate
aim is to be inclusive rather than exclusive with regard to gender, age, caste, and other social barriers.
Finally, the PPA will develop an action plan which represents the needs of all the sub-groups in the village.
Any project funded through the SDF will have to fit into such a plan.
Objectives of the PPA
To empower local communities to conduct needs assessments through a training of trainers at the
community level (CRs and communes);
To design local development plans that reflect the concerns and priorities of vulnerable sub-groups
in targeted villages, CRs, and communes;
To establish project selection criteria (for urban and rural projects) based on priority needs of
vulnerable groups as reflected in the PPAs;
To serve as a qualitative complement to the quantitative poverty baseline data, to be used for
project monitoring and evaluation.
Methodology
Each targeted CR and conmmune will designate three representatives (from target villages only), of which
one will be a woman and one a youth to be trained in PPA principles and techniques. This training will last
- 109 -



about 2-3 days and will be conducted in groups of not more than 15 people. This training will be hands-on
and will include the actual conduct of PPAs in chosen targeted villages.
The trained representatives will then facilitate PPAs in all the targeted villages within their CR or commune
and design a prioritised development plan at the village level or 'quartier' level. These plans will serve as
the basis of a larger plan at the CR or commune level, and as validation for village level sub-projects. The
formulation of this larger will also be based on the participatory approach and must include participation of
the individuals trained in the PPA technique.
Consultant's Tasks
1. To conduct the training of trainers in PPA as detailed above.
2. To establish project selection criteria (for urban and rural projects) based on priority needs of vulnerable
groups as reflected in the PPAs.
3. To synthesize the findings of the PPA so it can serve as a qualitative complement to the quantitative
poverty baseline data, to be used for project monitoring and evaluation.
4. To submit a report summarizing the key findings of each training exercise.
5. This assignment requires substantial experience both in the technique of training of trainers and PPA.
- 110 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Institutional Arrangements - Choice of Legal Status of the SFMU
SENEGAL: Social Development Fund Program
During the project appraisal mission, the legal structure of the Social Fund management was discussed in
depth. An appropriate structure was proposed by the partners, including the Ministry of Finance, during a
working session chaired by the Coordinator of the Poverty Alleviation Program and attended by the
representatives from the following departments and organizations: Ministry of Economy and Finance: DDI,
DPS and Direction de la Coop&ation Economique et Financiere; Ministry of Planning: Direction du
Plan and Conseil Technique; Ministry of Family Affairs and National Solidarity; Ministry of Youth;
Poverty Alleviation Program; UNDP and World Bank.
1. Implementation Arrangements
1.2 The principles governing the SDF management organization are as follows: (a) efficiency; (b) equity;
(c) transparency; (d) accountability; (e) economy; (f) sustainability; and (g) good governance.
1.3 Efficiency: The main concern here is the rapidity in the conclusion of cofinancing agreements and
disbursement of funds to the beneficiaries of these agreements (CBOs, PFIs). The SDF resource
management structure should be able to: (i) rapidly mobilize resources from financial partners, including
IDA; and (ii) quickly make these resources available to the eligible beneficiaries. With regard to grants for
CBO micro-projects, for example, the aim is to finance a large number of very small projects, throughout
the country (starting with the targeted regions). The speed with which funds are disbursed to CBOs is a
prerequisite for the success of this component. In this regard, the management arrangements for the
Special Account and the procurement procedures of the sub-projects will be crucial factors of success or
failure.
1.4 Equity: This pertains to the management structure's objectivity in allocating funds among eligible
beneficiaries. There are two aspects involved: (a) equal information to applicants that would enable all
groups to submit proposals with full knowledge of the eligibility criteria for receiving Fund resources; (b)
equal treatment of the beneficiaries as regards their entitlements under the agreements. The structure
should conform solely to the technical rules of resource management as described in the Manual of
Procedures and should not be subject to any outside influence.
1.5 Transparency. This is an essential criterion because it ensures that the partners will all have the same
information on decisions taken at every step of the process as well as the reasons for these decisions. This
criterion is based on a relationship of trust between partners, a condition of success for such a program.
The conditions needed to satisfy this criteria are: (a) la presence of observers who have the trust of the
beneficiaries at every step of decision-making regarding the allocation of resources, particularly during
project appraisal sessions of the sub-projects presented by potential beneficiaries; (b) the publication and
distribution of information on the resulting allocation of resources (selected sub-projects in relation to those
presented and the reasons of rejection of those not chosen).
1.6 Accountability. This pertains to the responsibility of the management unit both to render sound
financial and accounting services and to attain the set goals as regards the number of poor who have been
touched by the project and have consequently improved their living conditions. The management unit
- 111 -



should be both accountable upward (to Govemment and financial partners including IDA) and accountable
downward (to communities, CBO beneficiaries, and local governments) for these two areas of
responsibility
1.7 Sustainability. The management unit put in place at the start of the project should be structured in
such a way as to be sustainable beyond the project, subject to the availability of funds to be managed. For
this, a management unit, operating on the basis of a Govemment contract, receiving fees for management
services which could be determined in terms of a percentage of the funds managed could meet the criteria.
1.8 Governance. This refers to a judicious distribution of roles between the Govemment and the
executing institutions. Senegal inherited a heavily centralized structure whereby the Govemment had to
ensure both its essential functions of policy-making, promotion, coordination and financing of activities,
and monitoring and evaluation of results, as well as serve as an executing agent. Such a dual role has
proven to be incompatible and ineffective. Over the last few years, the State has distanced itself from the
role of executing agent and has adopted a 'faire-faire " policy, which has shown good results wherever it
has been applied (Health, Literacy, etc). According to this policy, the State entrusts the executing functions
it held in the past to private operators. These operators are often civil-society generated NGOs (literacy
providers) or State-initiated agents (AGETIP). The development of the struggle against poverty should be
viewed within this perspective of improved Govemance.
2.     Available legal structures
2.1 The partners reviewed the pros and cons of the various legal structures available in Senegal. They can
be divided into two groups, public and private. Those within the public domain include the civil service
and autonomous public domain departments; private agencies include associations (such as AGETIP) and
foundations (such as the Private Sector Foundation). A summary of the pros and cons as discussed by the
partners follows.
2.2 Public Service Option. An ad hoc Project Unit could be established like the Project Coordinating
Units of many projects financed by extemal sources. This option was discarded by the partners because, of
all possible solutions, this one was considered the most disadvantageous.
(a) Advantages: This option, from a legal point of view, has the advantage of quickly becoming
operational. It does not require the establishment of a new entity. All it needs to become functional is the
recruitment of staff by the Govemment.
(b) Disadvantages: (i) The efficiency of such a unit is limited because the Special Account cannot be
entrusted to the unit; it must be managed by the DDI. Furthermore, the procurement procedures must
follow those of the general Senegalese procurement practices. Both these systems are cumbersome and
slow. (ii) Equity of partnership is not maintained in this system because the management of the unit falls
directly under the authority of one of the partners. (iii) Experience has shown that accountability is less
rigorous when the unit is managed by the Public Administration than by an autonomous structure under
contract to the Administration. (iv) Cost-effectiveness is not guaranteed because operating costs are not
limited to the caps on costs dictated by the Credit. (v) sustainability of the system is weak as the
management structure has no obligation to raise funds; (vi) The evolution towards better govemance (by
leaving policymaking to the Govenmment and executing functions to contracted agencies), would be
impeded.
2.3. Autonomous State Agency. This option was not taken into consideration by the Ministry of Finance
- 112 -



because Senegal has no experience in autonomous public financial establishments entrusted with financing
private operators.
(a) Advantages. There is no concept of such a legal entity within the Senegalese legal system, so there is
no means of judging its advantages .
(b) Disadvantages. Again, since there is no concept of such an entity, the entire legal and institutional
framework would have to be built from scratch, and at present, seems to be beyond the reach of the project.
2.4 Foundation Option. This option involves considering the possibility of utilizing an existing legal
framework set up at the time of the establishment of the Private Sector Foundation (financed by IDA).
Although this option appeared to respond to the project's objectives, it was not selected because it did not
suit a section of the clientele targeted by the project.
(a) Advantages. The aims of the Foundation (allocation of goods, rights and other resources to general
good works for non profit) is in line with the objective of the project: to ensure the access of poor
populations to basic or micro-financed infrastructures. As a product of the sector, the Foundation helps
develop and organize that sector. Like AGETIP, a foundation can easily avail itself of capacities to
manage small contracts for community sub-projects with due diligence. It could be a durable structure
whose existence would not be strictly dependent on the project. Nonetheless, its duration is linked to the
availability of resources to reach its objectives: if the objectives are achieved or if the resources are
depleted, the Foundation will be dissolved. Finally, such a structure can be used to channel funds from
other sources to poor communities.
(b) Disadvantages. The Foundation is a product of the sector it serves. The sector must be sufficiently
developed to use such a tool, which is not the case for most of the poorest communities in Senegal. On the
other hand, such an option could be envisaged for the group of PFIs. Since the proposed structure is meant
to ensure the management of funds for 2 components of the project (support to communities and support
for micro-financing), it is capable of filling the requirements for only half the activities. Besides, although
there has been one initial experience of Foundation work in Senegal, the Govenmment's experience in the
matter is very limited and the creation of a second Foundation would likely entail a lengthy set-up a period,
incompatible with the scheduled effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
2.5 Non-Profit Association Option :. This scenario examines the feasibility of using a non-profit
association legal structure, similar to the one used for the AGETIP, for the establishment of a specialized
Agency. The Govemnment of Senegal has already established a number of these institutions - for example,
the AGETIP and AGM - with a view to delegate management of public resources to an administrative
body using private sector systems and procedures. In these cases, the General Assembly of the
Association, which is the goveming body and to which management units are accountable, comprises
representatives of the State and the private sector who are partners in the implementation of the
Association's objectives. This solution was selected by all partners during the Appraisal mission since it
met all required conditions. The choice between an existing Association or the establishment of a new
Association is discussed in paras. 2.7 and 2.8 below.
(a) Advantages. This option has been widely tested by Government through AGETIP (since 1993) and
ADM (1995) in all sectors, including the social sector (the community nutrition program and women adult
literacy project). The Ministry of Finance agrees to delegate to the Association the management of IDA's
Special Account, provided that acceptable financial capacity is in place (an IDA requirement as well), since
such a body would have the status of an autonomous legal entity. Past experience has demonstrated that
- 113 -



efficiency, equity, transparency, accountability, sustainability and good govemance criteria are better
satisfied through this type of structure.
(b) Disadvantages. With the exception described in para. 2.7 below, no disadvantages have been found
with this proposed structure.
2.6 Intermediate Option: from the Administration to the Association. Partners have discussed an
intermediate solution under which the Fund could be managed during the first phase of the APL by a
Project Unit (option 2.2 discussed above) to migrate into an Association which would be established during
this initial phase. This option aimed at eliminating the problem of a long gestation before Credit
Effectiveness. It was not selected since the risk of having the Fund management remain indefinitely under
option 2.2 << administration >> is too high.
(a) Advantages. Start-up within an established legal structure that is immediately available, thus
minimizing any risks of delay in declaring the IDA Credit effective.
(b) Disadavantages. During the transition period, the Special Account would be managed by DDI
(involving cumbersome disbursement procedures) and procurement methods would be those generally
applied by the administration (with slow procedures). Since these arrangements are not desirable in the
medium- and long-term, the first phase of the APL, which is normally aimed at testing innovations before
generalization, would not be able to play its role and be used for testing, on a reduced scale, the desired
institutional framework before its generalization.
2.7 Existing Association -AGETIP Option :. The opportunity to use the existing Association -
AGETIP - was discussed and rejected. The main reason is that instead of using AGETIP for this purpose,
the Government wishes to use its positive experience with AGETIP to replicate similar arrangements,
whenever necessary, in order to achieve equivalent results through AGETIP-like structures . Furthermore,
the Govemment appeared to be concerned about perpetuating a kind of AGETIP monopoly.
(a) Advantages. The use of an existing structure offers many advantages including : (i) its immediate use;
(ii) vast experience not only in construction but also in social sectors (nutrition, literacy) which enables it to
develop new capabilities on a sound basis; (iii) efficiency since a large part of its fixed costs would be
shared between all projects executed by the Agency; and (iv) a solid and diversified experience with IDA
financing.
(b) Disadvantages. AGETIP was established by government to illustrate the following case: outsourcing
the services of contract management to a specialized agency operating under commercial legal provisions
and staffed with highly qualified professionals recruited in the labor market is more efficient than the direct
management of these contracts by the government. If the Government uses AGETIP, it would lose the
benefit of replicating a good management model.
2.8 Solution: Establishment of a new non-profit association. All partners considered that the best
option was to establish a new fund management agency with the legal status of a non-profit association,
based on the AGETIP model, for the following reasons:
(a) Advantages. A new structure would be designed to serve Social Fund exclusively and will have the
built-in advantages of efficiency, equity, transparency, accountability, sustainablility and proper
governance. It will be able to benefit from the experience of all the other agencies through specific
agreements aimed at transferring to the team of the new fund management agency, the skills and knowledge
-114-



of the teams of the current agencies (AGETIP, ADM). The Ministry of Finance will delegate to it, the
management of the Special Account. The Government will grant it special privileges, governed by the
Operation Manual, as regards procurement for micro-projects and sub-projects with the CBOs and PFIs.
Disadvantages. The establishment of a new entity is obviously time-consuming. However, given the
Government's experience, this disadvantage was overcome.
3. Practical Modalities for establishing the Fund management structure
3.1 Establishing a body with the status of a non-profit association is simple. It would suffice to deposit the
statutes with the appropriate authorities at the Ministry of Interior.
3.2 Founding Members of the Association. During appraisal, it was suggested that the founding
members of the association - who will constitute the initial General Assembly - could consist of the
members of the Secretariat Technique de Coordination et de Suivi - also called Coordination Nationale
de la Lutte Contre la Pauvrete (CNLP). To ensure that the efficiency criteria are observed, the General
Assembly should be composed of representatives of the main bodies involved in poverty alleviation in the
private and public sectors and especially the coordinators of the major Government programs contributing
to poverty reduction (PDIS, Nutrition, Literacy, PDEF, etc. projects). To take into account the equity
criterion, the composition of the General Assembly should reflect the range of national partners involved in
poverty (representatives of Government, NGOs, CBOs and PFIs, among others).
3.3 Statutes. During appraisal, it was decided that the statutes could be drafted quickly by the project's
preparatory team which should form the nucleus of the General Assembly. The aims of the Association
could simply reflect the objectives of the Social Fund Program under preparation (see Log Frame). The
practical modalities for the operation of the Association, which should be included in the Bylaws, could be
based on the following paragraphs and refer to the Operation Manual under preparation.
3.4 Executive Organ of the Association. A small number of executive officers would be responsible for
the operation of the Association (convening of General Assembly meetings, preparation of progress reports,
recruitment of the Director General of the Social Fund and other key personnel).
3.5 Management Organs. The management organ is the SFMU, composed of high-level experts recruited
on a competitive basis from the private sector. The SFMU will be under a Director General (a financial
expert) who will be responsible for the expenditures incurred under the Fund. The SFMU will have a
central office in Dakar (the National Social Fund Unit) and an office in each region: the RFMU. At the
national and regional levels, the management units will consist of two sub-units, one for management of
grants to the CBOs and the other for management of grants to PFIs and IGAs. The Director General will
be recruited first according to the Directives for the recruitment of individual consultants. The remaining
key staff will be recruited according to the same procedures with the General Director participating in the
meetings of the technical evaluation committee.
3.6 Special Account. The IDA-financed special account will be managed by the Director General
according to financial and accounting procedures in the Operation Manual and approved by the Ministry of
Finance and IDA.
- 115 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Financial Management Capacity Assessment/Financial Management Arrangements
Senegal - Social Development Fund Program
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
1.    An assessment of the financial management capacity was done during project appraisal for the
Social Fund Management Unit (SFMU) which will be responsible for the Project financial management.
The objective of the assessment was to review compliance with the Bank's financial management
requirements (OP/BP 10.02) and to assess the SFMU eligibility for Project Management Report (PMR)
based disbursement method.
2.    The project will be implemented by the SFMU which will be established as an autonomous
association. It will function as a privately managed institution outside the regular Government structure.
The SFMU will be based in Dakar with branches in the targeted regions. Activities will be executed by
CBOs with assistance of NGOs, the private sector, and local public structures. The Directorate of Statistic
(DS) will be responsible for the implementation of sub-component 1 of component 4. The SFMU will have
overall responsibility for the program financial management. One special account will be opened for the
whole program. It will be managed by the SFMU which will make all necessary disbursements for all
components.
3.     Given these parameters, the financial management capacity assessment covers mainly the SFMU.
However, besides the SFMU, there are other financial management aspects, namely those related to the
micro-credit component and the grant activities, that need to be considered in this assessment due to their
importance to the success of the project. These aspects will be covered as well in the financial management
assessment. Yet, since the SFMU is a new entity to be created, the assessment of its financial management
capacity at the current stage of the project cycle consists rather in identifying the needs to be fulfilled and
defining an action plan to show how the implementing entity can develop appropriate financial management
capacity in order to ensure that an adequate financial management satisfactory to IDA will be in place prior
to project effectiveness at the latest.
Financial Management Arrangements
The Social Fund Unit
4.     Accounting system: The legal statute of an association requires from the SFMU to have its own
accounting system that must adhere to the West African Accounting System (Systeme Comptable Ouest
Africain or SYSCOA). As the project executing agency, the SFMU will also have to keep separate accounts
for the project activities. The accounting system of the SFMU as an association must allow for the overall
financial situation of the entity in order to determine its financial viability and hence its sustainability, as it
is expected that the SFMU should be sustainable beyond project completion. The assessment of SFMU's
accounting system must therefore be done with regard to these aspects.
5.    The SFMU will have to maintain both the project's accounts and its own set of accounts as an
autonomous non-profit yet revenue-earning entity. This second aspect is very important as it will help in the
assessment of the SFMU's performance regarding its objective to mobilize an increasing share of financing
for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the project implementation period. Given this
- 116 -



objective, the financial viability of the SFMU is vital to the success of the project. To meet these
requirements, the SFMU will be equipped with a computerized financial management system appropriate to
the scale and nature of the project and capable of recording and reporting the project's operations by
components, sub-components, activities, expenditures categories, regardless origin of funds, as well as its
own operations. The computerized financial management system will be multi-currency and include the
following modules which should be integrated: general accounting, cost accounting, budgeting, contract
management, fixed assets register, preparation of withdrawal applications, and generating reports. It will
also be able to cope with a decentralized accounting system to allow the branches to keep their accounts
locally and to consolidate all the accounts at the national level.
6.     Detailed terms of reference for the selection of the accounting software were prepared and
submitted to IDA during negotiation. This will allow to take into account the design of the accounting
system as requested in the procedures manual below. The software should be installed and function
satisfactorily prior to effectiveness.
7.     Manual of administrative accounting and financial procedures : A consultant was recruited prior to
project appraisal to develop a manual of administrative, accounting, and financial procedures. The draft
manual was made available during the appraisal mission. It includes the following parts: i) itroduction; ii)
Organization of the project: a) Objectives and components, b) Administrative organization, c) Accounting
organization; iii) Description of the procedures: a) cash management; b) Procurement; c) Personnel; and d)
other procedures. The draft manual was reviewed during the appraisal mission and the conclusions of the
review are annexed to this report. Basically, a lot of improvement was needed as the manual did not reflect
the specific characteristics of the Social Fund Program (nature of its activities, and its decentralized
organization). It described standard procedures that are applicable to any institution, whereas some key
factors should be taken into account as described in the annex.
8.     Given the weaknesses identified, the manual was upgraded taking into account the comments
received from the appraisal mission. A revised version satisfactory to the Bank was submitted during
negotiations.
9.     Financial reportin: Two sets of financial statements will be required: the project's separate
financial statements and the SFMU's (as an autonomous entity) financial statements. The project's separate
financial statements will comprise: i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the project during
the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the project, and ii) a balance sheet. These two
financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition, the SFMU will agree during negotiations to
submit a quarterly report using the PMR models including financial statements, procurement/contracts
schedule, and output monitoring, one month after the end of each quarter.
10.    Due to its legal status as an association, the SFMU is required for its own operation to follow the
West African Accounting System commonly called SYSCOA, under which a set of financial statements
must be prepared annually. They include a balance sheet, an income statement, and a cash-flow statement
which will provide the necessary information on the financial situation of the SFMU. The SFMU will be
required to submit these annual financial statements to the Bank.
11.   Auditing The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on:
the project financial statements (statement of Source and Application of Funds and Balance sheet)
- 117 -



the statement of expenditures (SOE)
the special account (SA)
12.   In addition to the audit of the project's financial statements mentioned above, the SFMU proper
financial statements will also be audited for each fiscal year by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA in
accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail
will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period.
13.    The auditor will also issue a separate management report on Internal Controls and operational
procedures outlining any recommendations for improving intemnal accounting controls and operational
procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
14.    The audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each financial year.
The selection an auditor acceptable to IDA for the project and the Leasing cooperative according to terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA is a condition of effectiveness. Draft request for proposals for the
selection of the project auditor including terms of reference covering aspects described above was prepared
and submitted during negotiations. Selection of the auditor based on these terms of reference will be a
condition for credit effectiveness.
15.    Accounting staffing: A Finance Director will be hired to take the overall responsibility of the
project's financial management. He will be assisted with a right mix of staff including a qualified
Accountant at the Social Fund Unit and a Administrative and Finance Assistant in each of the regional
branches. The recruitment of this core team is a of effectiveness.
Micro-finance component
16.    Financial management system: As indicated above, component 2 includes provision of financial
support to economically and socially vulnerable individuals and groups under the responsibility of PFIs
which include formal organizations, or informal ones such as NGOs and CBOs working with
community-based Savings and Credit Association (SCAs). Given the faire-faire approach of the project,
the SFMU will not be directly involved in the financial management of the micro-finance activities, except
for disbursing to the PFIs and SCAs. It is rather expected that the PFIs will have the responsibility to
handle administrative and financial management matters of the micro-finance activities. The PFIs will not
be selected before the project is effective. Therefore, the emphasis should be put on the eligibility criteria
for the selection of the PFIs participating to the project. Besides purely technical criteria, these PFIs'
financial situation at the time of selection and during the life of the project should also be considered
through their audited annual financial statements. Submission of such audit reports should be included in
the financial covenant of the contract between the SFMU and the PFIs. In addition, the PFIs will be
required to submit quarterly the financial situation of the micro-credit activities in accordance with format
and a content acceptable to the Bank. These quarterly reports should allow an evaluation of progress made
on and effectiveness of the micro-credit activities. To ensure that the selected PFIs will be able to provide
the SFMU with the information required, the appropriateness and effectiveness of their management
information system will be included in the eligibility criteria. Approval by the Bank of the request for
proposals for the selection of the PFIs will ensure that the above-mentioned aspects are taken into account.
17.    Audit: As indicated above, the participating PFIs will be required to submit their annual audited
financial statements to the SFMU. This requirement will help determine whether the financial situation of
these PFIs is viable and project resources are safeguarded. In addition, the audit of the project will include
specific controls to ensure that the micro-credit activities are managed properly. This audit will be done on
- 118 -



a sample basis annually to determine whether the micro-credit activities are managed properly by the PFIs.
Preparation of the draft request for proposals for the selection of the project auditor including terms of
reference covering aspects described above was a condition for negotiations. Selection of the auditor based
on these terms of reference will be a condition for credit effectiveness.
Financial management at the community level
18.   Financial management system: One of the most important aspects of the project is to channel
funds directly to the communities through either the Social Development Credit (SDC) or the Social
Development Grant (SDG). The SFMU will not be directly involved in the financial management of the
sub-projects financed by the SDG or the income-generating activities financed by the SDC. This does not
mean that the financial management of the sub-projects or the
income-generating activities should be overlooked. On the contrary, an appropriate financial management
system at the community level will: i) help ensure that funds received are used for the purpose intended, and
ii) contribute to the financial viability and the sustainability of income-generating activities. For this
purpose, the project manual of administrative and accounting procedures describes what is required from
the grant or credit recipients in terms of financial management. To fulfill these requirements, training will
be provided when necessary to strengthen the recipients' financial management capacity so that they can
manage the funds received properly and report on their use.
19.   Audit: Grant or credit recipients at the community level will be required to allow project staff and
designated auditors to review their accounts as well as the implementation of the activities financed.
Project staff will review the eligibility and supporting documents of expenses made by the beneficiaries
prior to release of any new funds to their bank accounts. As part of the project's audit, the auditors will be
requested to review on a sample basis expenses made by grant recipients to ensure that the funds are used
for the purpose intended. Preparation of the draft request for proposals for the selection of the project
auditor including terrns of reference covering aspects described above was a condition for negotiations.
Selection of the auditor based on these terms of reference will be a condition for credit effectiveness.
Use of the PMR-based disbursement method
20.   Based on the description above, all the tools necessary to prepare quarterly PMRs are expected to
be in place according the proposed action plan laid out in the last paragraph of this armex. These tools
consist of the computerized financial management system and the manual of administrative and accounting
procedures. The computerized financial management system will be customized to the specific needs of the
project to allow an automatic generation of the quarterly PMR according to the models presented in the
LACI Implementation Handbook and Financial Management Manual (draft version). However, given that
the project implementing agency, the SFMU, is a new entity and despite all measures proposed above to
develop appropriate financial management capacity, it is recommended to begin with traditional
disbursement arrangements through a Special Account and SOEs. It is expected that after a period of 18
months of project implementation, the SFMU's financial management capacities will be strengthened
enough to prepare accurate PMRs that could be used as a basis of disbursement as required under
Financial Management Initiative (FMI). A new assessment of the financial management system will be
done after 18 months starting from the date of effectiveness for compatibility with the FMI and to propose
the use of the PMR-based disbursement method or any strengthening action plan necessary to meet the FMI
requirements. In the interim period, the SFMU will prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly PMRs on a
test basis.
-119-



COMPLIANCE WITH OP/BPIO.02
REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ACTION PLAN
The establishment of the Program financial management system (Administrative, Accounting and Financial
Manual of Procedures, recruitment of key accounting staff, initial training, system test, etc) is a condition
of credit effectiveness. It consists of two phases: the interim phase consisting of activities precedent to
effectiveness and ending with Program actual effectiveness, assumed to be March 2001, and the final phase
(18 month period) culminating in the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (Please note that the second
phase is just indicative). The action plan below divides the actions to be taken during each of the two
phases, and the dates by which that they are due to be completed.
- 120 -



Tasks                                                Responsibility             Completion Date
INTERIM PHASE
1. Selection, purchase and installation of the financial
management software
Approval of terms of reference                 SFMA and IDA               31 October 2000
Transmission of draft requests for proposals,  SFMA                      10 November 2000
including terms of reference and shortlist, for
non-objection                                        IDA                        17 November 2000
Approval of draft requests for proposals       SFMA                      30 November 2000
Transmission of requests of proposals to
short-listed firms                                                              29 December 2000
Reception of technical and financial proposals  SFMA                      10 January 2001
Opening and evaluation of technical proposals  IDA                        20 January 2001
Approval of technical proposals evaluation report    SFMA                 25 January 2001
-     Opening and evaluation of financial proposals  IDA                         31 January 2001
Approval of financial proposals evaluation report    SFMA
Signature of contract and beginning of software  Consultant               15 February 2001
installation ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ onulan
installation                                         Consultant and IDA           Before credit
Softwvare installed and evaluatedefctvns
effectiveness
2.    Recruitment of accounting staff ( finance director.
CSFU accountant, RFMU administration and finance
assistants
Preparation of drafts terms of reference       SFMA                      15 November 2000
Approval of terms of reference                 IDA                       22 November 2000
Selection of accounting staff and IDA approval  SFMA and IDA                Before credit
effectiveness
3. Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting
Procedures
Selection of the Consultant                                                    Done
Finalization of draft manual                                                   Done
Comments on draft manual                       Government and IDA              Done
Final version of the manual                    IDA                             Done
- 121 -



4. Selection of the project auditor
Transmission of draft requests for proposals,  SFMA                           Done
including terms of reference and shortlist, for
non-objection                                        IDA                    30 November 2000
Approval of draft requests for proposals      SFMA                    15 December 2000
Transmission of requests of proposals to
short-listed firms                                   SFMA                   20 January 2001
Reception of technical and financial proposals  SFMA                  30 January 2001
Opening and evaluation of technical proposals  IDA                    10 February 2001
Approval of technical proposals evaluation report    SFMA
Opening and evaluation of financial proposals  IDA                    20 February 2001
Approval of financial proposals evaluation report    SFMA             27 February 2001
Signature of Contract                                                Effectiveness conditions
FINAL PHASE
5. Application of PMR-based disbursement method
Preparation of Project Management Reports using    Social Fund        One month after the end
the accrual model reporting format                   Management Unit        of each quarter after
-     Re-assessment of financial management capacity to                     credit effectiveness.
determine whether it allows the use of PMR-based     IDA                    18 months after credit
disbursement method or, if necessary, define additional                     effectiveness
strengthening measures
- 122 -



Additional
Annex No.: 16
Technical Note on the Micro-finance component
Improving access to Microfinance in Communities beyond the current reach of existing MFIs
Senegal: Social Development Fund Program
Scope. The micro-finance component will support access to micro-finance services in regions and
departments targeted under component I on the basis of defined poverty criteria, in order to develop
synergies between the components 1 and 2. Activities will complement micro-finance programs that
other donors are undertaking in other regions. The European Union (EU) is currently operating in the
regions of St-Louis and Dakar. UNDP is providing support to MFIs in the Departments of Kedougou,
Bambey, and Dakar. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is focusing its
intervention in the Ziguinchor region and the Department of Kolda, while USAID has a micro-finance
project that will target institutions in the regions of Tambacounda, Kolda, Ziguinchor, Thies, and
Dakar (Pikine and Rufisque). In addition, the African Development Bank (AfDB) is planning to
support large MFIs such as Credit Mutuel, PAMECAS, and ACEP in the regions of Thies, Diourbel,
and Tambacounda.
Strategy and implementation. A defining feature of the poorest and more vulnerable sections of
Senegalese society is the lack of access to financial services. Despite the large number of institutions and
programs in micro-finance (175 savings and credit cooperatives, 214 SCAs, and 6 non-cooperative
organizations registered with the Ministry of Finance as of June 2000) the poorest communities still lack
access to micro-finance services. The reasons include geographic isolation, lack of roads and other basic
infrastructure, as well as difficulties in meeting PFIs' membership requirements. There are also a number
of constraints faced by PFIs in their attempts to reach the poorest communities, including (a) inadequacy of
existing financial products and services for the poorest; (b) low managerial capacity of a large number of
PFIs, particularly SCAs; (c) low skills of PFI staff; and (d) weak internal controls. Most PFIs in Senegal
are member-based mutualist organizations that mobilize savings and do not lack funds to on-lend to their
clients. Instead they have major weaknesses in their retailing and managerial capacities to expand outreach
on a sustainable basis. Weaknesses have been identified in the areas of governance, internal controls,
managing growth, financial and information management, as well as quality of staff, all of which call for
capacity- building assistance.
Under the micro-finance component, the project will:
1.    Facilitate access to micro-finance services by vulnerable groups and individuals through linkages
with established            PFIs;
2.     Facilitate the creation of grassroots SCAs; and
3.     Finance income-generating activities of the poorest CBOs.
The adopted strategy will depend on the state of the micro-finance industry in the targeted regions.
1.    Linkages with Established PFIs
- 123 -



In communities where PFIs are present and active, sufficiently near to targeted poor communities, and
willing to participate in the project, the Social Development Credit (SDC) will: (i) provide support to PFIs
to extend or adapt their financial products to individuals or groups in poor communities. The SDC will
support related micro-finance activities through a matching grant mechanism that will cover the costs of
outreach and providing information to targeted groups and communities by PFIs, including training in
establishing and managing solidarity groups in association with an PFI. Partner PFIs will use their own
funds to provide loans to individuals and groups that would have received appropriate training, such as
grassroots Management Training (GMT) to become viable micro-finance clients; (ii) provide support to
PFIs for other capacity-building activities to help partner PFIs become stronger institutions and achieve
long-term sustainability and continue to provide financial services to the poorest communities. Capacity
building support will be provided on a matching grant basis (10% of the cost to be bome by the PFI) to
licensed PFIs. Activities to be financed on a demand-driven and performance-oriented basis will include
but not be limited to acquisition of a management information system (MIS), accounting software, and
office expansion and rehabilitation.
Implementation Guidelines
The Micro-finance Department of the Social Fund Unit will be responsible for implementation of the
micro-finance component including the selection of suitable PFIs as partners in the project. The selection
process will include: (i) Information campaign; (ii) issuance of a request for expression of interest; (iii)
assessment of the PFIs having expressed interest to build a short list; (iv) request for proposing a
sub-project to a short list of PFIs; (v) evaluation of the sub-project by a specialized expert and adjustment
of the proposal; (vi) Contractual/Partnership agreement between the PFI and the SDF unit.
Partnership Agreement: The Partnership Agreement between the SDC and the PFI defines the rules of the
game for their future relationship. It describes fully the rights and responsibilities of the parties involved,
the reporting requirements, and the institutional targets against which the PFI will be monitored. The
institutional targets in the Partnership Agreement are not synonymous with the financial projections
contained in the business plan, although they may be related. Institutional targets are concrete minimum
targets that the management of the PFI is committed to meet, giving the PFI some latitude should something
go wrong. The indicators that are monitored arise from the results of the institutional appraisal and the
goals set out in the business plan. Target indicators should relate to client outreach, portfolio quality,
growth, and cost recovery, and should not exceed five in total.
The Partnership Agreement also stipulates the scope and the nature of the institution building-support the
PFI will receive on a grant-matching basis. The support will depend on the specific needs of the institution
and reflect the results of the institutional appraisal and the goals set out in the business plan. The SDC's
institution-building support will consist of a tailor-made package of services that responds to the
self-diagnosed needs expressed by the PFI. Service might include:
Linkages with existing local providers such as CAP-AF for training services
Provide PFIs with the opportunity to learn from each other
Ensure delivery of short, practical, and relevant courses in response to the expressed needs and
preferences of the PFIs. Relevant courses include accounting for micro-finance, business planning and
financial analysis, delinquency management, internal controls, human resource management. interest rate
calculation; improving the efficiency of paper-based management information systems (MIS) and preparing
and executing the transformation into a computer-based MIS.
- 124 -



Selection of Partner PFIs
The selection of suitable PFIs will take into consideration (in addition to specific eligibility criteria below):
(i) the PFI's current vision, business plan with monitorable benchmarks, objectives; and strategy including
the promotion of new financial products and services to better reach the poor target market; (ii) the PFI's
current financial and human resources; (iii) current programs being implemented; (iv) potential for
expansion; (v) financial viability as well as the organization's capacity to achieve significant scale and
outreach; and (vi) identification of the capacity-building needs of the PFI in order to implement its new
vision and business plan.
More specifically, the following criteria will apply in the selection process:
*      be legally registered with the Senegalese authorities as a provider of micro-finance services
*      be in operation for at least a year
*      be involved in deposit mobilization
*      have a membership of which 30% are women
*      have at least 3,000 clients
*      have a three-to-five year business plan with monitorable indicators for achieving operational
self-sufficiency and build a strong micro-finance program
Contractual Arrangements
Contractual agreements will be signed between (i) the SDF Unit and (ii) selected PFIs. The agreement will
include: (a) the PFI's business plan to better reach a poorer segment of its target market, and (b) resources
to be provided by the SDF unit to finance the capacity-building program of the PFI needed for the success
of the business plan. These resources can cover the costs of outreach and providing information to targeted
groups and communities by PFIs, including training in establishing and managing solidarity groups in
association with an PFI, as well as other capacity building activities such as office expansion,
rehabilitation, accounting software and the installation of a rigorous MIS, as well as training of PFI staff.
In certain cases, a contractual agreement will also be signed between the SDF unit and specialized
consulting firms to provide capacity-building services such as training.
2.     Facilitating the Creation andlor Strengthening of SCAs
In communities that are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, the SDC will facilitate the provision of
training, capacity building, and equipment (if necessary) for the creation and/or strengthening of the
community's SCA that could finance individual IGAs. The SCA can apply for SDC funding for a building,
safe, and other needed equipment.
Selection Criteria of Partner SCAs
be legally registered with the Senegalese authorities as a provider of micro-finance services
be in operation for at least a year
be committed to deposit mobilization
- 125 -



*     have a membership of which 30% are women
have at least 100 members/clients
*     have a five-year business plan with monitorable indicators for achieving operational
self-sufficiency and build a strong micro-finance program
Contractual Arrangements
Contractual agreements will be signed between (i) the SDF Unit and (ii) selected SCAs and (iii) the
Implementing Agency (IA). Given the low managerial capacity of the majority of SCAs, it is assumed that
an IA, most likely an NGO, will be involved in the provision of technical, promotional, organizational, and
support services. Eligible NGOs must be legally registered in Senegal and have experience in microfinance
activities. The contractual agreement will include: (a) the SCA's business plan for expansion for the next
five years, and (b) resources provided by the SDF unit to finance the capacity building program of the SCA
needed for the success of the business plan. These resources can cover funding for a building, safe, and
other needed equipment. Training will also be financed to build the capacity of the SCA.
3.     Financing Income-Generating Activities (IGAs)
In poorest communities that are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs and where it is urgent to build
social intermediation skills, the SDC will provide financing on a matching grant basis for group IGAs. The
community (or group within it) will propose an IGA, possibly promoted through an NGO, supported by a
business plan and a commitment to provide at least 10% of the cost, of which at least 5% in cash. Upon
approval of the activity plan, the SDC will provide training, capacity building, and equipment (if
necessary) for the creation of the group's SCA or village bank, which will proceed to mobilize the required
cash and in-kind contributions to start the IGA, and to open an account in a licensed financial intermediary
or PFI. Normally, an implementing agency, such as an NGO, will be contracted to provide for technical
assistance to the group in managing the IGA and meeting its obligations, as well as for reporting to SDC,
the cost of which may be borne either by the implementing agency as promoter or by SDC. If no fnancial
intermediary is sufficiently near or willing to participate, the implementing agency will also handle the
group's financial transactions. The group will sign an agreement with the SDC, the financial intermediary
and/or the NGO to recover the cost of the IGA investment. The PFI and or NGO will be responsible for "
loan" monitoring and recovery against a fee added to the amount and set high enough to provide adequate
incentive for loan monitoring and collection. Community groups will be responsible for paying the fee to
the financial intermediary as well as negotiating a decent interest rate to be paid on their deposits.
Selection Guidelines for Funding IGAs
The following guidelines should help ensure that financing of IGAs will contribute to, rather than
undennine, the development of good micro-finance at the community level:
Grant assistance (matching grant) will be targeted to poorest conimunities or groups (according to
SDF poverty criteria) that are beyond the current reach of financial institutions including PFIs.
The investments should not compete directly with private investment (existing or likely).
The beneficiaries should contribute at least partly in cash; the cash contribution should be around
10% and, in any case, no less than 5% of the total project cost. This cash contribution could serve toward
the initial working capital to operate the activities.
- 126 -



Grants should be combined with training (e.g. Grassroots Management Training) and support to
establish local SCAs to capture increased income flows and finance future IGAs (group or individual) on a
sustainable basis. That is:
- The CBO should be trained and facilitated to set up its own SCA, village bank or group within a
micro-finance program;
- The local SCA should be linked to a licensed financial intermediary, ideally an PFI that can serve
it over the long term;
- A cost recovery obligation commits the group to capturing income from the project through its
SCA and utilizing it to help capitalize the SCA for future lending and financing within the group;
- Individual lending will be left to second-round recycling of the income generated from the IGA
and captured through cost recovery into the SCA.
Training for individuals and groups in skills for income-generating activities will be funded under
component 3 through matching grants. The World Bank Institute (WBI) has an established (GMT)
program which has been pilot-tested in Senegal and will be suitable for the required community
training. GMT training includes household management and business and financial skills that improve
the ability of targeted groups (especially rural women) to manage their income-earning activities and
finances, often obviating the need to seek credit and making them more successful when they do.
Implementation Arrangements
IGA Investment
-      SDC provides a grant for procurement (usually through an implementing agency) of the necessary
equipment, construction, and initial inputs (as in the case of normal SDF projects) and certifies
completion and commissioning of the investment.
Implementation and Recovery
*      The CBO carries out the IGA, utilizing its cash contribution for initial cash on hand, setting aside
sufficient income for operating costs and maintenance, and making cost (loan) recovery payments into
its account at the financial intermediary.
-      Additional training and capacity building may be provided, both for operation of the IGA and
management of the SCA, either through the implementing agency or through additional requests to
SDC
Capitalization of SCA and Subsequent Lending
*      Upon completion of the required payments, the accumulated funds are released to the SCA for it to
use for lending to members (in groups or as individuals), maintenance and upgrading of the IGA, future
IGAs, and other uses.
*      Groups that have established a good track record of payment into their financial intermediary
accounts may be able to obtain additional credit from the intermediary in the future or to "graduate"
their SCA into a licensed savings and credit cooperative.
Contractual Arrangements
For the activities related to the financing of group IGAs, a contractual arrangement will link: (i) the SDF
unit; (ii) CBOs; (iii) the implementing agency/NGO; and/or (iv) the licensed financial intermediary to
implement the activities described above. Under the contractual agreement, the SDC will provide funding
- 127 -



for training, capacity building, and equipment (if necessary) for the creation of the group's SCA or village
bank, which will proceed to mobilize the required cash and in-kind contributions to start the IGA, and to
open an account in a licensed financial intermediary or PFI. The implementing agency/NGO will be
contracted to provide technical assistance to the CBO in managing the IGA and meeting its obligations, as
well as for reporting to SDC, the cost of which could be borne by the SDC. If no financial intermediary is
sufficiently near or willing to participate, the implementing agency will also handle the group's financial
transactions. The group will sign an agreement with the SDC, the financial intermediary, and/or the NGO
to recover the cost of the IGA investment. The PFI and/ or NGO will be responsible for "loan" monitoring
and recovery against a fee added to the amount and set high enough to provide adequate incentive for loan
monitoring and collection. Community groups will be responsible for paying the fee to the financial
intermediary as well as negotiating a decent interest rate to be paid on their deposits. .
Role of the SDF Unit in Achieving the Objectives of Phase 1
The objectives to be achieved under this three-year phase are:
(a)    Setting up the micro-finance system promoted by the project by: (i) disseminating the Manual of
Procedures (MP-PFI) to all PFIs and CBOs; (ii) assessing and classifying, on one hand, the communities
located in areas where PFIs are near to targeted poor communities, and willing to participate in the project;
and on the other hand, the communities that are beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, which will be
supported to create or strengthen their SCAs to fund individual IGAs, as well as the poorest communities
where group IGAs can be financed; (iii) contracting the services of a technical institution specialized in
micro-finance to provide technical assistance to the SDF unit and the PFIs; and (iv) selecting/hiring
implementing agencies for the implementation of the contracting approach for the group IGAs.
(b)    Testing the support to build PFI/SCAs' capacity to better reach the poor. The SDF unit will:
(i) select/contract consultants for technical assistance; (ii) select/contract with a limited number of
PFI/SCAs -- 2 or 3 per region -- in order to test the system, according to procedures detailed in the
operation manual; (iii) supervise the new operations of the test-PFI according to contracts; (iv) evaluate the
test by verifying that performance objectives are reached by the PFIs; (v) continuously assess the specific
needs of the poorest groups, and the level of relevance of the financial products and services compared to
the needs; (vi) provide training to communities (or groups and individuals within them) for preparing
business plans to present to PFIs or other financial institutions for appraisal and possible financing; and
(vii) evaluate the approach to draw lessons for scaling up in phase 2. In phase 1 of the project, PFI
capacity-building assistance will be limited to those that are partners in the program, to improve their
effectiveness in implementation. In later phases of the project, this assistance could be expanded to include
other PFIs, based on the capacity of SDC staff to appraise and monitor performance of PFIs according to
agreed benchmarks. At the end of the first phase, it is expected that the number of poor beneficiaries of the
test PFI will have doubled.
(c)    Testing the IGA system with a limited number of CBOs. Pilot-test 10-25 communities that are
beyond the current reach of existing PFIs, and that will qualify for financing of group IGAs and start
micro-finance activities by: (i) identifying, through the PPAs process, the interested communities to test the
approach; (ii) disseminating to the test communities the specific module of the operational manual; (iii)
providing training to the selected communities for the preparation of their IGA and the creation of the SCA;
(iv) providing grant assistance to the CBOs for the implementation of the IGAs; (v) supporting CBOs for
the contracting of services from a suitable PFI/NGO to monitor the IGA revenues and the new SCA
development; (vi) monitoring and evaluating the test; and (vii) drawing lessons and disseminating them for
- 128 -



scaling up in Phase 2. At the end of the test, the system will be refined and expanded. At the end of the
Phase 1, it is expected that at least 100 CBOs (about 1 in every 30 targeted villages) will have successfully
implemented the approach and created a well-functioning SCA, and that the approach will have been
monitored and evaluated, and lessons drawn from the evaluation, for the second phase.
- 129 -



Additional
Annex No.: 17
Grassroots Management Training (GMT) for CBOs Capacity Building
SENEGAL - Social Development Fund Program
Grassroots Management Training (GMT) methodology will be most appropriate to train Senegalese
trainers to strengthen the capacities of the communities and local partners benefiting from the SDF and
provide a larger pool of trainers for CBOs to choose from. GMT is a training methodology developed by
the World Bank Institute (WBI) Country partners through six pilot projects initiated in Africa (Burkina
Faso, Nigeria, Malawi, Tanzania, Senegal) and India. GMT targets grassroots communities with low levels
of literacy and schooling, and engaged in income generating activities.
In Senegal, the WBI pilot project has built capacity among training institutions (ENSA/Thies), NGOs
(ACA, Maisons Familiales Rurales de la Region de Thies, OXFAM/Grande Bretagne, Plan
International de Thies, AFRICARE/Kaolack, and PROGES/Casamance) and CBOs to better train
grassroots managers. More than 88 trainers at three different levels (master trainers, junior trainers,
and women leaders) have directly trained 652 women from 94 women's groups in four regions (Thies,
Diourbel, Kaolack, and Casamance). In addition, more than 5000 women have been indirectly trained
through 48 follow-up sessions in the villages. The training material includes seven trainers' manuals,
seven video tapes, and four audio cassettes in local language. Produced training modules have been
translated in Wolof and recorded on audio cassettes for the use of illiterate women. Topics include
human resource management, financial management, micro-project management, credit management,
and marketing. GMT programs are often linked with literacy and health programs as was the case with
Senegal.
At the end of the pilot project, an expanded network of GMT trainers from Senegal, Burkina Faso, and
Mali was formed. This network has created an association of experts who are able to reproduce GMT
training adapted to local conditions and environment and for a variety of activities. The association and
ACA work closely together and share the same headquarters in Dakar, Senegal.
As a training methodology, GMT has been designed for and with NGOs and training institutions, to use
participatory and gender-aware training material to strengthen the capacities of grassroots people to
improve their conditions of life, by better managing theirs groups, projects, businesses and micro projects,
and credits, in groups or as individuals.
GMT assumes no literacy and no numeracy skills. It offers training in local languages, using drawings,
figurines, films, role plays, dramas, and proverbs. The curriculum reflects the reality of life, the
opportunities, and constraints that the communities face in their businesses.
GMT trainers do not lecture; they provide case studies, ask for questions and facilitate the discussions
among participants, assuming that by sharing their experiences, and drawing out their knowledge,
participants will find the better solutions to the problems they have assessed during a previous participatory
training needs assessment. Then, the facilitator can provide information and some theoretical inputs.
GMT is also designed to take into account the gender dimension of the training determining how, when, and
where training delivery and follow-up have to be organized to ensure that women will not be excluded and
- 130-



increase their participation.
In the six years during which projects were piloted, several products were developed, including modules for
trainers of grassroots people, training of trainers, and participatory training needs assessments. At the end
of the piloted projects, the VBI facilitated the expansion of the GMT methodology to other projects. A
wide range of trained trainers are using the methodology in several countries, including Senegal, adapting
the modules to the local situation through natural resources management, agriculture, micro-credit, and
nutrition projects.
How can GMT answer the needs of SDF?
SDF is focusing on poverty reduction in poor communities. Not only do poor community members often
lack basic social and economic infrastructure and services, they also have very limited literacy and
numeracy skills as prerequisites to be trained in a formal institution to better manage their infrastructure
and other resource endowments.
The GMT methodology has been developed to meet the training needs of these specific target groups..
There are good reasons to apply the GMT methodology to SDF project: the evaluation of the GMT'
initiatives in Africa and in India has proven that GMT made an impact on the lives of those who benefit
from GMT projects. It has helped to improve team work in local groups and have better division of work,
make better business decisions, select and manage better their activities, run their collective projects with
more transparency, increase their incomes and savings, develop self-esteem and raise the social status of
women in the community, improve their living conditions and assume better control of their lives.
Objectives of the GMT component
The overall objective of the capacity-building component will be to improve, in the long term, the living
conditions of the targeted communities. The objective of the GMT component will be to build capacities
among SDF' partners to strengthen the capacities of the communities to better manage in a sustainable
way, their basic services, their micro-credit, and their income-generating activities.
Target groups for GMT:
In order to reach the assigned objective, the GMT strategy would address training at two different levels: at
the grassroots level and at the level of partners in charge of training and financial services delivery.
At the community level, there are three target groups of people:
(a) Elected members of the "Groupements d'epargne et de credit" (GEC), and "Mutuelles d'epargne et de
credit" who are responsible for the management of their micro-finance projects;
(b) Grassroots managers having benefited from credit and who are engaged in income-generating activities;
and
(c) Elected local members of management/maintenance committees of the basic services provided by SDF
(such as schools, health care centers, markets, water taps/pumps).
At the local partners level, GMT experts will have to train the trainers of micro-finance internediaries
represented in the targeted regions including, licensed PFIs and NGOs, SCAs, that are willing to
collaborate with the SDF to help the poorest communities mobilize local savings and have access to
micro-credit.
- 131 -



For SDF staff members, the GMT approach will be used to improve their ability to better manage their
interactions with the communities and local partners by learning to take into account their real needs,
interests, and capacities, in a participatory, bottom-up, and gender-aware approach. The training
curriculum might include modules on approach to community, participatory planning, and awareness
training.
Proposed GMT Strategy for Phase 1:
The proposed GMT strategy outlined below aims at building and expanding the market for trainers in order
to provide a wider array of choices to communities seeking to receive training. The strategy will be
implemented as follows:
*   Undertake an information and sensitization campaign aimed at PFIs already working in the targeted
regions (e.g., ACEP, PAMECAS, CMS, CRS, CONACAP, ASADE, FDEA, APEC, and Plan
Internationa), and get their approval to collaborate with the project.
*   Provide information to targeted communities and potential local partners on the objectives of the SDF
project.
*  Make an inventory of the available trainers among the PFIs already working in the targeted regions and
build a pool of 10 senior trainers among the PFIs (Two PFI) to strengthen their GMT capacity through
a training of trainers (TOT).
3   Select two senior GMT experts to deliver the training of trainers (TOT) workshop. Seniors are
confirmed skilled trainers who already have the ability to train adults. They will have the responsibility
of assessing the training needs at the grassroots level, build the training material, and train juniors
trainers. Juniors are people working at the grassroots level, either as government employees, or
working for an NGO as Educateurs ruraux/ Educatrices rurales. They are not trainers by profession.
Also, because very often, they live in the villages and provide support for equipment, micro-finance,
and vocational training, juniors have a very good knowledge of community development, and have
developed some "on-the-job" skills which would be useful for training of community members using
freshly developed modules.
*  Conduct a training needs assessment (TNA) in the five selected regions.
*  Develop the training material based on the conclusions of the TNA. and local information. The pool of
ten senior trainers will develop a set of trainer's manuals. However, the WBII Senegalese modules will
serve as model of a step-by-step training program, and as an example of the learning cycle process and
as a participatory and bottom-up approach.
* Train the Junior Trainers.
* Train and provide a follow up and monitoring of community leaders. The focus of the training may
vary depending on the type of activities being undertaken by the communities and on their identified
specific needs. The final aim is to build the capacity of community leaders to adopt and apply more
formal business practices to better manage the infrastructure and the micro-finance activities under the
project and to stimulate and support the development of more income-generating activities among
grassroots populations.
*  Revise the training material and translate it in local languages, to ensure that community leaders will be
able to use the training material and disseminate the messages at those who have not been trained at the
community level.
The final aim of the GMT training is to train groups and individual in poor communities participating in
the project. At the end of the TOT phase, communities will have a larger pool of trainers to choose from as
they seek to contract training service providers.
- 132 -



MAP SECTION






Atlantic FC,--'  \                                                  16'                            15                            14A                            13                             12'
Ocean AShOri           -N      ALGERIA
OCean ghnigl' rX ALGERIA           /1                                          M A U R I TA NIA                                                         SENEGAL
f'_i    j                                           /                            /                                              <                       SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
N   MAURITANIA                 N-I/   To Nouakchott                                                                                                              FUND  PROJECT
MA  L I                                        es   l  _                                                                                           S
7 - b-t-Dagana                                                                                      o7                                             PROJECT TARGETED REGIONS
D/Oukr/ko                                                                      R ----"  RiAcr-d
TnuE                                NIGER                                       TolLoPRIMARY ROADS
Dinsn'            Fsuo BRIASOoy                                            acd               A'KSECONDARY ROADS
GU~NEA~' GUINEA             ___               b                           Guier            S       INT  -
55155AU$                                 ~,.                                                                           GaIYo'~>                               -c-F--ANA,-RAILROADS
4  TA  Saint- .
L7 uiL                                                                                      Thlge0                                     SELECTED TOWNS
Lo9bar.  L 0  U  I S                           ~~~~~~~(  REGION CAPITALS
Gandio,                    0                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS
iov~~~~~~~~~rA    m  ~~OuoSowPORTS
REGION BOUNDARIES
UG                               ayor        '    ,_,.    ,/K- INTERNATIONAL
Atlontic   YRonr .;_                                                                                                   BOUNDARIES
D~~~   BIAKA   jru  l  '                    _T  O  Gaonr  <
on                                                                                                                                           on~~ ths mo  ont iml,o thelipart fTe  ol BMan Group, Ksanya   \
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V6DobfoX1 Z\imng Msias                                                                                                                             15'
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                   =,  '77'                                                                                  Kuidir S
nni 12tKILOMETERS                                                                                                                    *                hisd motwa pon uedb the lea taufany territoygony endtorsTemn oarl ak   1 r
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CaR 0                                                                                               510    \R j~ h onuie,clrs,eointosadnyhe frmnsow
o _  17 0                   lyuv   <//                      XZ                     1        14  S                acceptance ofMsuchnboundaries.           1          M
Dalafi~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-



