Report No. PID8566
Project Name                     Senegal-Social Development Fund Program
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Social Sector
Project ID                       SNPE41566
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PLANNING
8, Avenue Guillet
Contact Person:  Aboubakry Demba Lom
Tel: 221 823 8891
Fax: 221 823 1437
Email: diarona@Yahoo.fr
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                September 21, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 26, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
According to the 1991-92 Priority Survey, about 33t of Senegalese households
lived below the poverty line. In most countries, poverty is a rural
phenomenon with over 80t of poor households found in rural areas.    Dakar,
however, houses 21t of the total Senegalese population.    Thus, the capital
city has a significant proportion of poor households (12%-), most of them
living in peri-urban areas (See Senegal: An Assessment of Living Conditions,
1995 World Bank). Results from the 1994-95 Poverty Survey indicated a rise
of the overall poverty rate. Despite some recent improvement in
macroeconomic performance, poverty measures (level of household expenditure)
remain high, and there is no clear indication of a trickle-down effect of
recent growth on the poor.
Senegal's social and economic indicators have started to improve, reflecting
the increased attention and resources of the Government in social
development. However, progress remains fragile and social and economic
indicators are still poor by the standards of countries with similar levels
of income (Senegal's estimated GNP per capita for 1998 was US$550). Despite
the implementation of Government programs to improve the condition of women
since the early 1960s, women remain a particularly vulnerable group. The
illiteracy rate is 66 percent for women (compared to 47 percent for men), and
the female drop-out rate is high due to household task requirements, early
marriage, and pregnancies (median marriage age for women is 16.6 and median
age at birth of first child is 19.4). The under-nutrition rate for women is
high, and 429- of women between ages 15-49 are considered anemic. Women do
not have easy access to land and agricultural services, and their access to
credit is predominantly limited to credit clubs (tontines) which permit them
only very small loans.
A second highly vulnerable group is the insufficiently trained or untrained
youth. The estimated unemployment rate among people of ages 20-34 in urban
centers has reached 40%-, compared to 29%- for the total population. Primary



school enrollment is only 68%, of which the drop-out rate is 75%-. Twenty-
three percent of children under five suffer from malnutrition. Adolescents
and young adults are particularly vulnerable to HIV-AIDS and other sexually
transmitted diseases. Finally, the increases in urban youth criminality and
child mendacity are rising concerns for Senegalese authorities.
The Government's overall development strategy is articulated in the Ninth
Socio-economic Development Plan (1998-2001), adopted by the National Assembly
in February 1997 after extensive consultations. The Plan's objective is
highly focused on poverty reduction and human development (out of its 10
strategic axes, at least 7 involve human development activities). In
addition, the Government formulated a Five-Year Action Plan for Women and
Development. The Action Plan highlighted the following areas to improve the
status of women in Senegal: (i) access to financing, income generation, and
poverty alleviation; (ii) capacity building of women's organizations;
(iii) reproductive health and family planning; and (iv) women's rights and
empowerment. In December 1997, the Government of Senegal developed a
comprehensive Poverty Reduction Program with the input of several donors
(including UNDP, Canada, and Germany). The objectives of the Program are to:
(1) improve the resource base of poor groups through economic and community
development activities; (2) improve the quality and quantity of social
infrastructure and social services in poverty areas and groups; (3) build
monitoring capacity of institutions in charge of poverty reduction policy as
well as the capacity of organizations of the poor themselves. The basis of
the strategy to be implemented will be a participatory approach and
partnership. Thus, the proposed project will seek to contribute in
implementing the three main axes of this poverty reduction strategy.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to achieve the effective use of social
funds in priority development areas by the poorest tested communities in the
poorest regions of Senegal with participation of vulnerable groups with
gender inclusion. The Government of Senegal has developed a framework for
poverty reduction in the form of the Programme de Lutte Contre la Pauvret
(PLP). The Social Development Fund (SDF) Program has been conceived of
within this framework to ensure that its efforts to reduce poverty in Senegal
are part of the country's long-term poverty strategy, and it will complement
several other World Bank and other donor projects aiming at poverty
alleviation, with a view to preventing duplication and risks of
contradiction. The project will build upon the positive experiences gained
through: (i) long-term past experience of Community Based Organizations'
(CBOs) development through NGO support; (ii) extensive experience of Micro-
finance Institutions (MFIs) and Saving and Credit Associations (SCAs) in
providing finances and services to less socio-economic status groups.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has always spearheaded living condition assessments in Senegal. No
full assessment has been done since the Bank's assessment of 1994. An update
of the poverty profile was done in 1995, based on survey results and studies
conducted under previous Bank projects such as the Development Management
Project and the Human Resources Development 1 Project. The Bank has
capitalized on its experience of social funds in other countries as well as
on country-specific knowledge gained through the implementation of AGETIP I
and II projects (for public works and employment), the Female Literacy
Project, and the Community Nutrition Project. The Bank is in a strategic
position to help the Government mobilize resources and federate initiatives
-2 -



for sustainable poverty alleviation.
4. Description
The project would comprise the following four components, with their
respective sub-components:
1. Basic Social Services and Community Infrastructure
2. Access to Microfinance:
-- Financing Income Generating Activities
-- Support of Micro-credit intermediaries
3. Vulnerable Groups and CBOs Capacity Building
-- Institutional Development
-- Capacity Building
4. Social Fund Management (including poverty monitoring)
-- Poverty Strategy and Monitoring
-- Project Implementation Unit
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD
IDA                      25
Total Project Cost       25
6. Implementation
A Social Fund Management Unit (SFMU) will be established. The SFMU will be
made up of two distinct functioning sub-units: a Social Development Grant
(SDG) body and a Social development Credit (SDC) body. Components 1 and 3
will be implemented through the SDG body, while Component 2 will be
implemented through the SDC body. Both will be staffed with out-sourced
professionals with relevant skills in each area of expertise. The Central
SFMU (CSFMU) will be responsible for the Regional antennas (RSFMU) and
accountable to the Managing Board. The RSFMU will act as a technical arm of
the Regional Development Agency (RDA) for poverty alleviation under a
Memorandum of Agreement between the SFMU and each RDA. The SFMU will operate
on the basis of the following principles: (a) transparency, simplicity, and
flexibility; (b) execution by CBOs with assistance of NGOs, private sector
and local public structures if needed, to ensure the decentralized and
target-specific nature of the activities; (c) stakeholder/beneficiary
participation which must be gender inclusive; (d) supervision and monitoring
the SFMU to enable the implementation of corrective measures; and
(e) replicability. The three main components that will be managed by the
SFMU are: (i) improving access to social services and basic infrastructures,
(ii) improving ability to access credit, and (iii) building CBO management
capacity.
7. Sustainability
Key factors critical to the sustainability issue are: (a) capacity building
at all levels; (b) identification and participation of beneficiaries;
(c) partnership and collaboration of stakeholders; and (d) quality of sub-
projects. Furthermore, enabling the beneficiary organizations to sub-contract
with service providers--with the aim of empowering the poor themselves to
-3 -



identify, plan and implement their own project--is crucial for
sustainability.
The Adaptable Program Lending (APL) option should promote long-term
sustainability, as the second phase will build on the first for expanding and
consolidating achievements. By Phase 2 of the project, the SDF will have
started mobilizing funding for poverty alleviation from other donors and the
private sector, including its operating costs. It is anticipated that the
SDF will become an autonomous foundation-like institution, addressing poverty
issues at the community level and seeking long-term funding to build
permanent endowments. It will address locally defined problems, thereby
facilitating local participation and ownership, eventually leading to
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects lessons learned from donor and national
experience with social funds, as well as from the Bank's experience with
other social investment funds. The following are among the most relevant
lessons learned:
Lesson 1: Clear objectives and consistency with national development
strategies. The SDF needs to maintain clear and limited objectives.
Efficiency of operational policies and procedures, as well as overall program
effectiveness, depend upon clear understanding of SDF's role in an overall
development strategy framework. It is important for Government to clarify
SDF's role in the context of national policies for social development,
poverty reduction, and decentralization. Furthermore, it is important to
remember that SDF is designed to finance and oversee implementation of sub-
projects, and not to make policies; and that while SDF managers and staff may
bring important perspectives to policy discussions, participation and
coordination of all actors relevant to such discussions (including the
public, private, NGO/CBO sectors) should be assured. Overall, this has been
achieved.
Lesson 2 (cf. Implementation Completion Report of the Human Resources
Development 1 Project - HRDP1): A well-tailored role for NGOs under
government contract can prove very effective and may be both less expensive
and more participatory than direct government implementation at the community
level. This is especially relevant in the context of the decentralization
and deconcentration of service delivery and state disengagement from service
provision and infrastructure management.
Lesson 3 (cf. Implementation Completion Report of HRDP1): Central
coordination units in central ministries may be sources of delay and rivalry
rather than facilitative of collaboration and increased implementation and
disbursement efficiency. Further, when the project ends, Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) management or technical capacity is dispersed,
leading to little gain in institutional capacity or sustainability. Such
units are not sustainable and decrease institutionalization of aid management
capacity.
Lessons learned from the implementation of AGETIP I and II and the ongoing
female literacy project are being considered.
Lesson 4: Experience from similar projects financed by the Bank and other
donors show that the success of such projects derive from (i) the design and
- 4 -



implementation scheme based on community-felt needs; (ii) building and
investing in local organizations for operation and maintenance; and (iii)
ensuring community ownership, transparency, and accountability. Government
commitment and sustainable funding mechanisms, and attention to cost recovery
are also key elements for designing a sustainable intervention.
Lesson 5: Social fund interventions have not worked where policies are
biased against the poor. The interventions have to be an integral part of the
government's willingness and commitment to genuinely help the poor. The
commitment described above in the sector background suggests that this
willingness and commitment are present in this case.
Lesson 6: Lessons learned from other Bank Social Funds show that
sustainability is a critical issue. Sub-project sustainability requires a
participatory process that seeks open consultation with communities on their
needs and priorities and an involvement of communities throughout the project
cycle to secure their commitment to sub-project operation and maintenance To
achieve success, sub-project sustainability requires the coordinated support
from both the central and local governments, with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities for each.
Lesson 7: Other Social Funds in the Bank show that the development of
key institutional characteristics are necessary conditions for the success of
any project. The proposed project would place emphasis on the institutional
characteristics that are considered most critical for the success of SDF:
operational efficiency; transparency and accountability, which are bolstered
by clear resource allocation criteria and operational guidelines, reliable
independent audits and evaluations, an effective management information
system, and vigilant supervision by external financial agencies; clear and
simple procurement and disbursement procedures; proper targeting mechanism;
integration of the environmental viewpoints into operations; and improved
attention to monitoring and evaluation activities, including beneficiary
assessments.
Lessons drawn from Bank's global experience are incorporated in Phase 1
of the Social Fund; such as: emphasis on community-based development;
independence of the Social Fund; no direct lending by the Social Fund; and
conformity to "Best Practice" in micro-finance in order to ensure long-term
financial and institutional sustainability.
9.   Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
A separate Environmental Assessment summary report, entitled "Senegal Social
Development Fund Project: Environment Assessment", will be available at the
World Bank's InfoShop.
Issues
An environmental assessment (EA) was done from January to March 2000. A
first draft EA report was submitted for review and comments to the Bank.
Comments were received and the report was revisited and resubmitted in June
2000. The report was based on comprehensive documentation on the National
Poverty Alleviation Program, on extensive field visits in three different
locations, and various meetings in Dakar with agencies and resource persons
involved in the design and implementation of the national program.
- 5 -



During the EA process, wide public consultation was performed in three
districts of the project area: Pikine, Bambey and Kolda. Meetings and
individual and group interviews were arranged with target groups (youth,
women, professional associations and NGOs to discuss environmental issues and
potential social and health issues including AIDS and STDs. Necessary
mitigation measures (including institutional capacity building) were
therefore recommended in the Environment Management Plan (EMP) on the basis
of the public consultation findings.
Environmental issues raised by the report are related to the fact that the
SDF comes under financial intermediary lending (in view of the Bank policy)
and, as such, sub-projects will operate as stand-alone operations. Therefore,
the sub-projects, which will generate environmental impacts on natural
resources, health and hygiene, should be properly assessed. Furthermore, the
SDF's EA revealed an institutional weakness in environmental management that
should be dealt with by incorporating an environmental sub-project (capacity
building, management, communication and training).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alassane Diawara
The World Bank, Dakar Country Office
3, Place de l'Independance
Dakar, Republic of Senegal
Telephone:   (221) 849 50 00
Fax:   (221) 823 62 77
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
Jl-060
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Telephone:   (1-202) 458-5454
Fax:   (1-202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information is on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 13, 2000.
- 6 -



