E-395
SENEGAL
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
June 2000






- 2 -
Executive summary of environmental assessment
Environmental assessment of the 7 sub-projects considered not only direct or indirect impacts
but also the cumulative impact of sub-projects. Main focus of the EA is on reducing the risk
of expansion of STDs and AIDS related to the migration of the labour force and to the
potential risk of changes in sexual behaviour that can be reduced by an improvement of
income and by inappropriate handling of biomedical waste. Moreover, by displaying the
generic impacts associated with specific types of infrastructure against main characters of
agro-ecological zones, the potentially positive and negative impacts the sub-projects were
identified as follows:
a) Environmental impacts
Impact of roads
Destruction of vegetation cover, loss of soil moisture, soil erosion and risk of surface water
contamination
Impact of hvdraulic works:
Positive impacts related to creation of water pools and artificial wetlands and reforestation
lots. Negative impacts during construction relate to destruction of vegetation cover by access
roads for transport of construction material.
Cumulative impacts relate to the reduction of water resources, soil and water pollution and
increase of animal and human water-associated diseases.
Sanitation works:
Great ecological and health benefit would come out of the construction of latrines in rural
areas if they are designed in a participatory way and well maintained after construction in
order to minimize health risks associated with fecal contamination and pollution of water
bodies.
Agriculture and NRM sub-projects:
These sub-projects will be the regeneration of soil, faune and flora if the tree species selected
are adapted to local conditions and if use of vegetal material fencing is avoided during
construction.
Negative impacts are predicted as stemming from diminution of water sources due to tree
nursing and watering.
In socio-economic terms, access to fuel wood for women will be greatly facilitated. Improved
household nutrition is also likely to be a major benefit.



-3 -
Construction sub-proiects:
During construction, loss of biodiversity and pollution and nuisance will be caused by this
type of project. Also, STDs and AIDS can be triggered locally if biomedical waste is not
properly handled and the health situation around construction caps are not monitored and
coped with.
Micro-finance sub-projects:
Impacts can largely be positive with regard to increase in income generated and improvement
of household nutrition, negative impacts relate to solid waste generation and potential
increase in respiratory diseases.
Institutional measures:
The lack of environmental awareness and of sustainability in the management of the project
implementation would be a source of negative impact such as the degradation of natural
resources. Therefore, an environmental management plan including an operation manual and
a monitoring and a management plan is proposed as part of the project preparation process.
b) Mitigation measures
Impact on natural resources
During construction phase, major identified negative impacts related to degradation of
vegetation. Therefore, it is necessary to optimise project the chaise of sites and management
measures by means of:
Effective implementation and monitoring of environmental rules that are proposed in the
operation manual.
Promotion of ecologically adapted construction methods and material with appropriate
training of beneficiaries;
By setting funding levels and grouping projects into sub-projects that will be subject to EA
prior to investment;
Funding reforestation projects where/when important forest degradation is likely to occur.
Impact on water resources
They relate to large-scale or important cumulative use of resources or pollution from
fertilizers and/or pesticides. A thorough knowledge of the availability of water is needed in
order to estimate and manage the needs of each project. Priority should be given to
agricultural projects based on traditional practices (i.e. use of organic fertilizer) to avoid
pollution of soil and water resources



- 4 -
Impact on Hy-fiene and public health
All type of wastes, solid, liquid and biomedical can be generated with significant negative
incidence on health and hygiene. The project management system should include advice from
medical staff and subscribe to the prescription of the Bale Convention for handling bio-
medical waste. The project should also impose waste collection and disposal to proponents
and contractors.
Socio-economic impacts
With regard to the looseness of land and property laws and their inefficient enforcement, the
SIF management will benefit from early and appropriate definition of target beneficiary
groups to avoid conflicts during the project implementation phase.
Environmental Management Plan
The EMP proposes ways of properly handling mitigation measures by identifying
institutional responsibility, setting up procedures for implementation and estimating cost. The
SF project is analyzed in terms of sustainability and therefore, some capacity building
activities are planned and implemented before investment in subprojects.
Road subproiects
The management of impacts will proceed through compensation of deforested areas and
destruction caused to crop fields. The assessment of pollution and nuisance and firm
commitment (under the terms of contract) of contractors to integrate necessary construction
and maintenance measures are also required.
Hydraulic works
Before funding and construction work can start, the contractor should engage his
responsibility at avoiding any loss of biodiversity whenever possible, at assessing or seeking
adequate information for assessing the quantity and quality of water resources, and at holding
public meetings to optimize the design and operation rules.
Sanitation works
On site the project proponent should investigate hydrogeology or at least at regional level
before any choice of waste storage system is made. The contractor should also avoid
destruction of vegetation during construction and maintenance.
Construction proiects
The contractor should be instructed clearly and accountable for avoiding destruction of
vegetation in the site. Biomedical waste generated by health center and posts should be



-5 -
handled by sanitary structures within the norms and recommendations from the Bale
Convention.
Agriculture and NRM activities
These activities should be given priority in investment. All agricultural projects (rainfed
crops, gardening and irrigation should be managed in a way to avoid pollution from
pesticides and fertilizers and within respect of the environmental quality of water resources.
Input from specialized institutions would help the SF project management staff to properly
assess the risks and take necessary steps toward sustainability.
Microfinance projects
These type of activities can generate solid and liquid waste. The SF management should
properly include environmental measures into the design of the subproject and also fund
waste collection projects. The recycling of waste can in some circumstances be beneficial to
natural resource management (i.e. organic waste collection and use as fertilizer in
agriculture).
Institutional axis
Proper incorporation of environmental management in the training programme of the SF will
yield major benefit and would greatly enhance the economic performance of subprojects and
funded activities. A capacity building plan has been designed within the EA for the first
phase of the project (5 year).
a) Institutional responsibility
The national project management committee and agencies that are entitled to select projects
must retain institutional responsibility for environmental management. The implementation
of the EMP will start by the selection of environmentally viable projects that can forrn the
basis for capacity building in environmental management. Therefore, the National Committee
should include a representative of the Ministry of Environment with the responsibility of
mainstreaming environment into the SF.
b) Training programme
Agencies responsible for project selection will need training in environmental assessment and
integration of environment in the project contract. Beneficiaries (NGOs, private proponents
and community groups) need to be fully aware of environmental prescriptions for contracting
and operating projects and therefore, environmental education programme and campaign for
building awareness are to be performed. This programme should be specific to operating
rules contained in the environmental assessment document. The following table assesses the
needs for training in environmental management.



- 6 -
Table: Assessment of needs in capacity building
SF project agencies         Needs                      Comments
Mainstreaming environmental policy into the SF and
A Representative of Ministry monitoring proper implementation of Emp at national
National Committee          of 'Environment           level
-   Recruitment   of   an The (contracting) environmental specialist will design
environmental specialist  procedures for monitoring, training and information for
FISS (Management)           -  Contracting   Consultant the SF and subprojects
when / where needed
-   Input  of  an   env.
Structures  in  charge   of     Specialist  in   each Receptors of training and responsible for on the ground
selection and implementation of    structure for training and implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures
infrastructure and subprojects  screening              and for the satisfactory environmental management of
-  Training in env. mgmt   each   project,  including  selection   procedures,
communication and final assessment.
Structures  en   charge   of
implementing     subprojects
(NGO, OCB, Private,         - Public meeting for raising
environmental   awareness
Structures in charge of project and  explaining  the  EMP
design  and  implementation measures,
(Beneficiaries, NGO and OCB) -  Training  on  avoiding
negative impacts (targeted
training)



-7-
c) Costs of the EMP
Costs for implementing the EMP include training of managers and beneficiaries, and hiring
of environmental officers. Costs estimates are 95 millions CFA in the first 5 year phase of
the project (See table below)
Table: Cost estimates for capacity building activities (in FCFA)
Structures             Human Res.        Number            Unit cost (FCFA)*   Total cost**
National committee     Representative
Min. Environm.    (01)
Environmental
FISS    (High    level consultant         (01)             6.000.000           30.000.000
management)                                                (1 month / year)
Environmental
Structures in charge of consultant       Six (06)          4.000.000           20.000.000
selection         and                    (1 in each region) 10 days input per 3
implementation      of
infrastructure    and                                      month, 4 times
subprojects    _                                         _
Structures en charge of
implementing subprojects -  Consultant  / 3 sessions per reg. 1.000.000   per 18.000.000
(NGO, OCB, Private,    trainer           x 6 regions       training session
-Training sessions                 4.500.000 per region  27.000.000
TOTAL                                                                   95.000.000
*: par an   ** preniere phase (5 ans)



