Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3446 SE
Project Agreement
(Social Development Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIAL FUND MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3446 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIAL FUND MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (SFMA).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,600,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that SFMA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary administration agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SFMA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to SFMA on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
WHEREAS SFMA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SFMA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, SFMA shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Project Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SFMA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement; 
and
(b)
for the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SFMA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months before 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Association and SFMA, a plan for the sustainability of the Project, 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with  SFMA on said plan.
Section 2.04. SFMA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Administration Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  SFMA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SFMA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
SFMA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SFMA of its 
Page  3
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SFMA
Section 3.01. SFMA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management acceptable to the Association and 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  SFMA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and environmental  practices.
Section 3.03.  SFMA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SFMA shall maintain records and account adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
SFMA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of 
each such year: (A) 
certified copies of said financial statements reflecting the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably requested.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, SFMA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable SFMA, not later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
Page  4
separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, SFMA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a  Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SFMA  thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify  SFMA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
          Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
           248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
            64145 (MCI)
For Social Fund Management Association:
Director General SFMA
Building Administratif
6ème étage
Dakar
République du Sénégal
Tel:   221 - 0 - 223694
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of SFMA, may be 
taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as SFMA  
shall designate in writing, and SFMA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIAL FUND MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
Page  6
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, contracts for goods and 
works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works estimated to cost 
$30,000 equivalent or more each shall be grouped in bid packages.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $0.5 million equivalent, and works estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Microprojects financed through Beneficiary Grants 
made under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with the Procedures 
Manual and  procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
Page  7
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) the first three contracts procured under 
Parts C1 and C2 of this Section; (iii) the first 50 Beneficiary Grant Agreements and 
the first 50 IGA Grant Agreements under Part C3 of this Section estimated to cost less 
than $5,000 equivalent; and (iv) the first 20 Beneficiary Grant Agreements and IGA 
Grant Agreements under Part C3 of this Section estimated to cost $5,000 or more 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $30,000 or less, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
SFMA shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, SFMA shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
Page  8
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits of a standard nature estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for: (I) tasks performed by the Director, the Administrative and 
Financial Officer, the Microfinance Officer, the Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, 
the 5 Procurement Officers and the Officer in charge of Community-Based Organizations; 
(ii) lectures and small scale studies; and (iii)  tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3
Single Source Selection
Services for distance learning (teleconference) which are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$75,000 or more; (ii) each contract under Part C2 of this Section estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $30,000 or more; (iii) the first five contracts under Part C2 of 
this Section estimated to cost less than $30,000 each; (iv) the first 5 contracts for 
consulting firms estimated to cost $75,000 or less; and (v) contracts for audits,  the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Page  9
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A:   General
Reviews
1.
SFMA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Implementation Plan and 
shall not amend such Project Implementation Plan or waive any provision thereof which, 
in the opinion of the Association will materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project or the objectives thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 1, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(d)
review with the Association, by December 1, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(e)
carry out jointly with the Association on March 1 and on September 1 each 
year or as such later dates as shall be agreed by the Association, semiannual reviews 
of the procurement activities during the implementation of the Project;
(f)
carry out jointly with the Association no later than 18 months after the 
Effective Date, a midterm review which shall: (i) assess the overall progress in the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) review the performance of the PFIs, the 
Beneficiary Communities and the CBOs; (iii) review the progress of performance 
monitoring indicators and trigger indicators for the second phase of the Project; and 
(iv) review compliance with the covenants set forth in this Agreement; and
(g)
based on the reviews referred to in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this 
Schedule, prepare a revised action plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
further implementation of the Project and thereafter implement such action plan.
Institutional arrangements
2.
SFMA shall maintain:
(a)
(i) its internal structure consisting of the General Assembly, SFMU, 
RSFU, Community Development Support Unit (CDSU), Microfinance Support Unit (MSU) and 
Page  10
the departmental level Technical Committees, which shall together be responsible for 
the implementation of the Project; and (ii) all its units with personnel having 
qualifications, technical expertise and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
including a Director; an Administrative and Financial Officer, a Microfinance Officer, 
a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, 5 Procurement Officers and an Officer in charge 
of Community-Based Organizations;
(b)
the General Assembly  to oversee the activities of the SFMU. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the General Assembly shall be: (i) chaired by the 
Minister in charge of Family Affairs and National Solidarity; and (ii) comprise 
representatives of the following ministries and entities: Ministry of Finance and 
Economy, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Youth, Association of Presidents of the 
Local Governments, Association of Women Groups and Association of Youth Groups; and
(c)
 (i) the Procedures Manual for the implementation of all components of 
the Project; (ii) take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried 
out in conformity with the Procedures Manual; and (iii) not amend or waive any 
provision thereof which in the opinion of the Association will materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Execution covenants
3.
SFMA shall:
(a)
carry out a Participatory Poverty Assessment in each selected community 
prior to the appraisal of any MicroProject and Subproject;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association,  by  September 30, 2001, required  
development plans regarding each Beneficiary Community and CBO for the implementation 
of the Program; 
(c)
furnish to the Association by September 30, 2001 the first beneficiary 
assessment report;
(d)
furnish to the Association, by May 31, 2001, the result of the household 
budget survey and the associated poverty profile and a map of the Borrower's 
territory; and
(e)
prepare and furnish to the Association by October 30 each FY or such 
later date as the Association shall request, an annual work program and budget for the 
following FY.
B:
MicroProjects 
Eligibility criteria for Microprojects
1.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of part A of this 
Schedule, no Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless the Technical Committees shall have determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Procedures 
Manual that the Microproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the 
Procedures Manual, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Microproject shall be for social and economic services and 
infrastructure;
(b)
the Microproject shall be technically appraised by the departmental 
Technical Committees and approved by SFMA; 
(c)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary 
Community shall provide:
Page  11
(i)
not more than 10% of the estimated costs of the Microproject for 
social services of which 5% mandatorily in 
the form of cash, and the 
rest in the form of materials, labor or other services; and
(ii)
5% of the estimated costs of the Microproject for infrastructure 
in the form of cash, materials, labor and 
other services; and
(d)
the Microproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in 
the laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
Terms and conditions of the Beneficiary Grants
2.
In financing Microprojects, SFMA shall enter into a Financing Agreement with the 
Beneficiary Community concerned under terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $30,000 equivalent per 
Grant for Microprojects for social services and not to exceed $35,000 for 
Microprojects for infrastructure;
(b)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Beneficiary Grant be procured in conformity with the provisions 
relating to community participation set forth in the Procedures Manual and that such 
goods works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Microproject;
(c)
the right of SFMA to inspect by itself or jointly with the Association 
the goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the Microproject, the 
operation thereof and any record or relevant document; and
(d)
the right of SFMA to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary 
Community to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the Beneficiary Community 
to perform any of its obligations under the Financing Agreement.
C:    Subprojects for Income Generating Activity 
Eligibility criteria
1
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of part A of this 
Schedule, no Subproject for an IGA shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit unless SFMA shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Procedures Manual that 
the Subproject for an IGA satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the 
Procedures Manual, which shall include the following:
(a)
the Subproject for an IGA shall be for investment, development and 
economic projects;
(b)
the Subproject for an IGA shall be technically appraised by the Technical 
Committees and approved by SFMA; 
(c)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the CBO shall provide no 
less than 10% of the estimated costs of the Subproject, of which 5% in the form of 
cash, and the rest in the form of materials, labor or other services; and 
(d)
the Subproject for an IGA shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the laws of the Borrower  relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection.
Terms and conditions of the IGA Grants
2
In financing Subprojects for an IGA, SFMA shall enter into an IGA Grant 
Agreement with the CBO concerned under terms and conditions which shall include the 
Page  12
following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $5,000 equivalent per 
Grant;
(b)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the IGA Grant, be procured in conformity with the provisions relating 
to community participation set forth in the Procedures Manual and that such goods 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject for 
an IGA;
(c)
the right of SFMA to inspect by itself or jointly with the Association 
the goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the subproject for an 
IGA, the operation thereof and any record or relevant document; and
(d)
the right of  SFMA to suspend or terminate the right of the CBO to use 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the CBO to perform any of its obligations 
under the IGA Grant Agreement.
D:   PFIs and the Participation Agreements
Eligibility criteria and application procedures for PFIs
1
PFIs shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the credit on a 
grant basis under a Participation Agreement, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Operating Manual indicating that the 
PFI satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in detail in the Procedures Manual, 
which shall include the following:
(a)
SFMA, with the assistance of external auditors and in consultation with 
the Association, shall be responsible for qualifying PFIs on the basis of an 
evaluation of the solvency, financial position, savings mobilization plan, prior 
record, intermediation capacity and reputation of each  applicant.
(b)
Participation in the Project shall be open to all PFI licensed in the 
territory of the Borrower as a provider of microfinance services as well as such other 
institutions or organizations meeting the criteria of solvency, sound financial 
position and intermediation capacity as SFMA, in consultation with the Association, 
shall allow to participate in the Project.
(c)
PFIs shall be certified for initial participation in the Project and 
re-certified  every 3 years for continued participation in the Project. For 
certification purposes the PFI applicant shall furnish, together with an application, 
all pertinent information described in the Procedures Manual and outlined in paragraph 
2 hereafter. 
(d)
SFMA shall have the right to revoke the certification to participate in 
the Project of any PFI found not to be in full compliance with the Project eligibility 
criteria or which shall have lost its registration with the authorities in the 
territory of the Borrower.
2.
PFIs applying to participate in the Project shall be required to furnish to the 
auditors, SFMA and the Association the following written information:
(a)
annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles; provided that, with regard to new institutions, 
detailed financial projections satisfactory to
SFMA may be accepted;
(b)
unqualified opinion from external auditors, or if qualified, satisfactory 
explanation and action plan from the PFI for remedying the situation;
(c)
a special eligibility assessment conducted by SFMA with the assistance of 
external auditors according to the criteria set forth in paragraph 3 hereafter; and
(d)
such other information as SFMA, the auditors or the Association shall 
reasonably request.
Page  13
3.
(a)
The Project eligibility criteria to be applied by SFMA and the external 
auditors in the evaluation of the performance of  PFIs shall be, inter alia, as 
follows:
(i)
review of the financial management of the institution including 
its credit controls, planning mechanisms, 
staffing and information 
systems;
(ii)
assessment of capital adequacy compared to lending operations; and
(iii)
intermediation capacity: the auditors shall review the capacity of 
the prospective PFI to effectively 
initiate, appraise, 
process, monitor and supervise future loans to Micro-Enterprises.
(b)
The eligibility criteria set out in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 
shall be subject to such changes as SFMA in consultation with the Association may 
determine.
Terms and conditions of Participation Agreements
1.
Participation Agreements shall be made on terms: (i) whereby SFMA, acting 
through SFMA shall obtain, by written contract with the PFI or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and SFMA; 
(ii) and conditions which shall include the following:
(a)
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $35,000 equivalent per 
Grant;
(b)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the PFI shall provide no 
less than 10% of the estimated costs of the Participation Agreement, of which at least 
5% in the form of cash and the rest in the form of materials, or other services;
(c)
the requirement that the goods (software), installation works  and 
training services to be financed out of the proceeds of the grant be procured in 
conformity with the provisions set forth in this Schedule and detailed in the 
Procedures Manual and that such goods, installation works and training services shall 
be used exclusively in the implementation of the Participation Agreement;
(d)
the right of SFMA to inspect by itself or jointly with the Association 
the goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the implementation of 
the Participation Agreement, and any record or relevant document; and
(e)
the right of  SFMA to suspend or terminate the right of the PFI to use 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the PFI to perform any of its obligations 
under the Participation Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for 
Project implementation are as follows:
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, FORMAT WILL NOT FIT
