                   Document of
                The World Bank




                                      Report No: ICR000106




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                     ON A

                   CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.6 MILLION
         (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

         TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                    FOR A

      SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT




                January 31 , 2007


              Human Development II
                 Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2000 )
                               Currency Unit = CFAF
                                   CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.0014
                                    US$ 1.00 = CFAF 697


                                         Fiscal Year
                                 January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFDS Agence du Fonds de Développement Social (Social Development Fund)
AfDB  African Development Bank
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBO  Community-Based Organization
CDD   Community-Driven Development
      Coordination Nationale de Lutte contre la Pauvreté (Poverty Reduction National
CNLP
      Coordination Unit)
CR    Communauté Rurale (Rural Local Government)
DPS   Direction de la Prévision et de la Statistique (Statistics and Forecasting Directorate)
ESAM Enquêtes Sénégalaise auprès des Ménages (Household Survey)
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
ICR  Implementation Completion and Results Report
IGA   Income-Generating Activities
MFI  Micro-Finance Institution
MSD  Ministry of Social Development
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PLDP Participatory Local Development Project
PLP   Programme de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté (Poverty Reduction Program)
PMIS Poverty Monitoring Information System
PPA   Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPF  Project Preparation Facility
PRSC Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG   Quality Assurance Group
QER   Quality Enhancement Review
SOE  Statement of Expenses
TA    Technical Assistance
UNDP United Nations Development Program
USAID United States Agency for International Development

Acting Vice President: Hartwig Schafer

    Country Director: Madani M. Tall

     Sector Manager: Eva Jarawan

Project Team Leader: Serge Theunynck

                                                       Senegal
                                 Social Development Fund Project




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 22
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 25
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 27
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 28
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 32
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 35
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 38
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 40
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 42
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 43
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 46
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 48
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 49
Annex 13. Additional Annexes..................................................................................... 50
13.1 Summary of Methodologies of Ex-Post, Impact and Other Overall Evaluations. 50
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 55

1. Basic Information

Country:                Senegal               Project Name:           Social Development
                                                                      Fund Project

Project ID:             P041566               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-34460, IDA-
                                                                      3446A, JPN-54216
ICR Date:               01/31/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                      SENEGAL
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 23.6M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 23.2M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

AFDS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/15/1999           Effectiveness:    07/06/2001         07/06/2001
Appraisal:         06/22/2000        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          12/22/2000        Mid-term Review:                     06/11/2003
                                     Closing:          12/31/2004         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                                   14               14
Micro- and SME finance                                              15               15
Health                                                              14               14
Other social services                                               43               43
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector               14               14
                                                       Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                 Primary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                      Primary          Primary
Gender                                                  Primary          Primary
Access to urban services and housing                    Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                       Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                           At ICR       At Approval

Vice President:                                        Hartwig Schafer  Callisto E.
                                                                        Madavo
Country Director:                                      Madani M. Tall   John McIntire

Sector Manager:                                        Eva Jarawan      Nicholas R.
                                                                        Burnett
Project Team Leader:                                   Serge Theunynck Alassane Diawara
ICR Team Leader:                                       Mirey Ovadiya

ICR Primary Author:                                    Julia Van
                                                       Domelen




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


At that time of project identification and preparation, Senegal had experienced average
annual GDP growth of over 5 percent between 1995 and 2001. However, this economic
performance had not translated into significant improvements in living standards for the
poorer segments of the population. Rural areas continued to stagnate and access to
services was far better in urban areas than in rural communities. Social indicators were
particularly alarming even taking into account the country's low per capita income.
Women and youth were identified as specific vulnerable groups. The nascent
decentralization process had officially transferred some responsibilities for service
provision to local Governments in 1996, but few fiscal resources had followed.

Against this backdrop, the PAD identified six key sectoral issues to be addressed :
    · Low level of income and lack of access to economic opportunities, particularly
        among women and youth
    · Poor health status of women and children
    · Low participation of women and girls in economic and social development
    · Low access to basic infrastructure and services, particularly among poor
        communities; and even where services exist they do not function well or are ill-
        maintained because of lack of ownership by the community
    · Weak institutional capacities of Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) owned
        by the poor, though a generally vibrant civil society sector
    · Weak capacity to monitor and analyze poverty data and insufficient coordination,
        and an immediate need for an up-to-date database of the key indicators of poverty

The project was developed by the Government as part of its poverty reduction program -
Programme de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté (PLP) - with input from several donors. The
objectives of the overall PLP were to: (a) improve the resource base of the poor through
economic and community development activities; (b) improve the quality and quantity of
social infrastructure and social services in poverty areas and groups; and (c) build
monitoring capacity of institutions in charge of poverty reduction policy as well as the
capacity of organizations of the poor themselves. The Government and its partners
agreed on a geographic distribution of activities between the IDA-financed SDF (Louga,
Kolda, Kaolack and Dakar) and programs implemented by the ADB, UNDP and USAID.
The PLP was a precursor to the first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP, 2002-
2005).




                                              3

The project supported the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives, dated
December 29, 1997 covering the FY98-01 period, particularly in the areas of
infrastructure development, education and health, population, social protection and
gender, and rural development. One of the over-arching objectives of the CAS was to
reduce the incidence of poverty and create gainful employment for youth and women.

The project was conceived as a poverty targeted intervention to complement the broader
macroeconomic, sectoral and decentralization strategies in place in order to reach the
most vulnerable communities and populations. This was an explicit attempt to address
historical deficiencies and inequities of investments in poor areas in Senegal. The core
vision of the project was to empower poor communities and vulnerable groups through a
bottom-up, inclusive grassroots planning process and participatory poverty assessments
(PPA) geared to inclusiveness and gender mainstreaming. The strategy was to facilitate
and enable communities to self-manage the development process. This was the first
example of direct community management of resources in Senegal. The project built on
the country's strong tradition of community-based organizations and NGOs, as well as the
extensive experience of microfinance institutions and savings and credit associations.

Nevertheless, there was no overarching vision for community-driven development in
Senegal at that time, with multiple and sometimes competing approaches, including
deconcentration, decentralization and community-based efforts with some coordination
but little integration between them. The longer-term objectives of the APL sought to
harmonize and integrate approaches.

The rationale for Bank involvement was twofold. The Bank's technical expertise in the
design of social funds in general as well as related specific interventions in Senegal
(female literacy, AGETIP, etc.) was considered highly relevant. And second, the Bank
had always spearheaded living condition assessments in Senegal and was considered the
main agency for poverty analysis and monitoring.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The project was designed as a ten-year Adjustable Program Loan (APL). The overall
program goal was that poor communities effectively manage their own development
resources and economic and social services with equal participation of vulnerable
groups. Phase 1 (3 years) was to set up the institutional mechanisms in five regions and
test approaches and procedures in a limited number of pilot communities. Phase II (3
years) was to scale up to reach all targeted communities within the program, as well as
harmonizing objectives and procedures of all donor-financed social funds operating in
the country. Phase III (4 years) was to fine-tune the operational mechanism and
mainstream the strategy nationwide to include other operations.




                                             4

The project development objective of Phase I was to assist the poorest pilot communities
of Senegal to effectively improve their conditions by using the Social Development Fund
resources in priority development areas with participation of vulnerable groups: through:
(i) increasing access of the poor to basic social services; (ii) increasing access of the poor
to micro-finance products and services; (iii) building capacities in all beneficiaries and
financial intermediaries involved in the Project; and (iv) building institutional capacity
for the management, monitoring and evaluation of the poverty strategy of the Borrower.

Key performance indicators prioritized in the PAD were (see complete set in Annex 1):
Outcome Indicators
     · 75 % of the 300 test communities making development decisions based on
        participatory development plans responsive to the needs of the poorest
     · at least 50 % of the population within the test communities are aware of the basic
        processes of sub-projects' implementation and are satisfied with the outcomes
Output Indicators
     · 300 test communities requesting funds for sub-projects complying with SDF
        criteria
     · 50 % of vulnerable groups receiving TA meet MFI credit criteria
     · 75 % of projects formulated and implemented by the CBOs reflect criteria of
        sound design and are implemented according to the strategy of the SDF
     · 90 % of the test communities are satisfied with the services of the SDF and feel it
        is equitable and transparent
     · 90 % of vulnerable members of eligible test communities are aware of and
        understand the procedures of the projects financed by the Social Fund
Communities are targeted by the SDF based on data provided by Poverty Monitoring.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The objective was not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The SDF aimed to target the poorest 57 communautés rurales (administrative units
consisting of an average of 65 villages each) and seven urban neighborhoods during the
pilot phase. Special consideration was to be given to the vulnerable groups, particularly
women, youth, and other socially marginalized groups. The other set of beneficiaries
were the Micro-Finance Institutions (MFIs), Community Based Organizations (CBOs)
and district councils and authorities, whose planning, management, and implementation
skills were to be strengthened by the project. The poverty monitoring agencies would



                                             5

also be strengthened, including the Ministry of Finance's Poverty Monitoring Unit, the
national statistics department and the Ministry of Social Development.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


1. Basic Social Services and Community Infrastructure (Indicative costs: US$12.35
million; Bank financing US$12.04 million). The objective of the component was to
improve the access of vulnerable groups and poor communities to basic infrastructure
and services. The PAD projected that Phase I would finance about 400 social service
projects and 150 basic infrastructure projects developed through PPA processes.

2. Access to Micro-Finance and Income Generation (Indicative costs: US$19.79 million;
Bank financing US$4.31 million). The objective of this component was to extend
financial services and economic opportunities to the poorest communities through (a)
improving existing MFIs' abilities to extend services to the poor and vulnerable; and (b)
support for income generating activities (IGAs) and the creation of grassroots savings
and credit associations in the target communities. Support to MFIs included equipment
and technical assistance to help them better reach poor communities; no actual credit was
financed. IGA subprojects were small grants to groups of vulnerable populations (not
individuals). Phase 1 target was support to at least 10 MFIs and 300 IGA projects. The
gap between Bank financing and total indicative cost was the estimate of local savings
generated through improved local financial services.

3. Capacity Building for Vulnerable Groups and CBOs (Indicative costs: US$3.54
million; Bank financing US$3.54 million). The objective was to enhance the capacity of
organizations of the poor and vulnerable (CBOs, women's groups, youth groups) in
organizational dynamics and project management. The component used the Grassroots
Management Training (GMT) methodology developed by the WBI in Africa and India.

4. Poverty Reduction Management System (Indicative costs: US$ 9.80 million; Bank
financing US$9.06 million). The objective was to create a poverty monitoring system as
part of a comprehensive poverty reduction effort.            The component had two
subcomponents: (a) Poverty Monitoring (US$5.6 million) to develop baseline poverty
data (through financing of the 2002 national household survey ESAM II and a follow-up
Poverty Monitoring Household Survey), create a poverty monitoring information system
(PMIS), promote a common, coherent national poverty strategy through the Poverty
Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Finance and coordinate poverty-related interventions
within the Ministry of Social Development; (b) Social Development Fund Agency
management costs, including monitoring and evaluation (US$4.20 million).

5. PPF. A PPF of US$1.05 million financed technical preparation studies and part of the
costs of the national household survey (ESAM II).



                                             6

6.6 Revised Components

No components were revised

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Two amendments have been made to the credit agreement: (i) the project closing date has
been extended for 18 months and (ii) the credit proceeds have been reallocated. Please
see details in section 7.2.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

 The Government, under the leadership of the Planning Directorate, was fully committed
to the SDF project. The program was a core part of the PLP and a preparatory committee
with representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Social
Development, Ministry of Family Affairs and National Solidarity, the Ministry of Youth,
NGOs, and CBOs guided a participatory preparation process.

The Project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) at entry, but did
benefit from a Quality Enhancement Review (QER). Several elements of project design
were noteworthy and built on lessons learned both inside and outside of Senegal:
    a) The project used an explicit targeting mechanism to identify the poorest villages
        and neighborhoods: the composite poverty indicator of access to services
        developed by the National Statistics Department for each Communauté Rurale
        (CR).
    b) A village-level social assessment was carried out, including detailed gender
        analysis, to identify vulnerable groups and community preferences.
    c) Project design created an inclusive local planning model that sought to address
        potential elite capture by explicit inclusion of vulnerable groups.
    d) The approach built on Senegal's culture of community activism and self-help and
        sought to build better governance from the bottom-up.
    e) Capacity building was seen as an integral part of community investments and
        was based on an internationally-tested model.
    f) Inclusion of MFI support followed best practice through its own operational
        manual and a distinct department within the SDF to retain technical focus.
    g) In terms of institutional structures, the SDF agency was placed under the tutelage
        of the Ministry of Social Development, creating institutional linkages with the
        Ministry whose mandate is to support vulnerable groups, NGOs and community


                                                7

        development. A General Assembly comprised of central ministries, local
        government and civil society ensured broader coordination with national policies
        and programs.
    h) And lastly, the project had an integrated vision of a national poverty monitoring
        system which responded to the need for support to the nascent PRSP process.
        The complexities of four implementing agencies and multiple deliverables were
        mitigated by partnership agreements with the beneficiary agencies and annual
        operating plans.

There were also some minor shortcomings:
    a) The institutional structure for poverty reduction was in flux at the time of project
        design which resulted in a less than fully-designed poverty monitoring
        component. In addition, the Poverty Monitoring component was overly ambitious
        and under-designed at entry. At the same time, the component was not best
        placed under a social fund.     However, this was the most suitable mechanism
        available in the Bank portfolio at the time to respond to Government's request for
        support.
    b) The choice of an APL was justified on the longer-term commitment required for
        poor communities, and adoption and harmonization of community driven
        development approaches. However, it led to a design that allowed for a longer
        start-up period in order to test approaches and build systems which created an
        impression of few tangible results on the ground in the first two years of
        operations.
    c) Project design included an excessive number of conditions of effectiveness (10),
        prior review requirements (first 50 micro-projects, first 50 IGA grants and 20
        percent of both thereafter) and key performance indicators. Though meant to
        ensure quality and learning, this contributed to delays in effectiveness and in
        initiating community investments and a heavy reporting burden.

Two moderate risks were identified during preparation. The risk that CBOs, NGOs, and
private firms lack technical capacity was addressed through capacity building and
piloting before scaling up. The risk of weak coordination among all stakeholders was
addressed through the broad representation of the General Assembly and its mandatory
role in oversight of the SDF including approval of the annual work program. At the local
level, local government and sectoral representatives were part of the technical evaluation
committees to approve micro-project proposals. In addition, project proposals had to be
consistent with Local Development Plans, with priorities identified through a facilitated
community process rather an ad hoc submissions of project request.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


Project implementation was satisfactory throughout the implementation period. Overall,
the Project adopted a "learning-by-doing" approach and showed itself to be flexible and
able to innovate. At Mid-Term Review the models for community facilitation and



                                             8

capacity building were adjusted to make them more efficient and to further embed
responsibilities at the community level such that NGO operators were done away with
and this responsibility were entrusted with community resource persons. The project was
also able to seize on opportunities like creating Senegal's Development Gateway portal.

Local governments played a key role in monitoring project activities, screening proposals
and providing on-going support to communities and received training to that end. NGOs
were contracted to carry out facilitation, PPAs and technical support to communities; and
CBOs directly managed the procurement and financial management aspects of
microproject implementation.

Two amendments were made to the Credit Agreement. In 2003, the 70/30 ratio between
social service and infrastructure micro-projects was eliminated in order to not distort the
community prioritization process; and (b) in 2004 the procurement prior review
thresholds were raised. Closing was delayed by 18 months to complete the community
investments as well as the Poverty Monitoring Survey and several key evaluations.

These delays were the result of (a) the time needed to set up the institution and its
regional offices; (b) finalization of manuals and capacity building instruments to ensure
that this element accompanied all interventions, (c) consolidating the General Assembly
and formally launching the program at the local levels; (d) contracting participatory
poverty assessments (PPAs) in all project intervention communities and recruiting NGOs
to provide technical support; and (e) the 2002 local elections delayed the launching of
activities in villages until the newly-elected local government officials were installed.

In the Poverty Monitoring component, the signature of the coordinating agreements with
the implementing agencies (Ministry of Finance, DPS and MSD) was delayed for one
year due to debates on the institutional location of the PRSP Monitoring Unit. The
follow-up household survey was also delayed by a year as a result of institutional
paralysis in the Statistics Department during the period which it sought to change its
legal status to an autonomous institute. The technical demands of designing and
implementing the poverty monitoring information system were extremely complex,
involving four agencies and a level of cooperation in sharing data that had never been
achieved in Senegal, which resulted in delays.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The design of the M&E system called for an integrated approach which linked the project
M&E with the broader poverty monitoring program supported by the project. The basic
design called for the development of baseline data through the PPAs, which would serve
as the basis of ex-post and impact evaluations. A beneficiary assessment was planned to
get direct feedback from local stakeholders on the participatory aspects, inclusion of
vulnerable groups and the overall transparency and satisfaction levels.


                                               9

There were some shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation implementation:

    · Despite a specific M&E manual and full-time M&E manager, there were delays
        designing and contracting the PMIS. Since the SDF MIS system was to be an
        integral part of the PMIS, when this lagged, the SDF was forced to develop an
        alternative monitoring system to track project implementation.
    · The sectoral evaluations (in health, education, water supply, and employment
        generation) were conducted in collaboration with the relevant sectoral ministries
        which was an innovation for a multi-sectoral program. However, the quality
        varied. For instance the study on employment creation done by the Ministry of
        Labor was technically unsound. And, the PPAs at the village level proved to be
        far stronger in their community facilitation aspects than in establishing robust
        baseline data, with only a small subset of the envisioned baseline able to be used
        in the subsequent impact evaluation. However, the SDF compensated for this by
        contracting a substantial number of complementary ex-post studies that provided
        the ability to triangulate results. In total, there is an adequate evaluative basis for
        the program.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

In the 2000-2004 period there was a proliferation of Bank operations using a CDD
approach. These operations showed that communities and local government can
effectively manage resources, and that NGOs and delegated contract management
agencies can fill capacity gaps. But there were no overarching CDD strategy, no
coordination among ministries, and little donor harmonization. The Government and the
Bank were concerned about duplication and lack of consistency in the approaches at the
local level, as well as the inherent lack of efficiency in funding multiple project units
often addressing similar issues. Thus, at the Government's request, the Bank decided to
move toward greater harmonization of its local and community level interventions. To
prepare the groundwork for this process, an international firm carried out a portfolio
review and extensive Country Team meetings achieved a consensus on building an
overall CDD strategy. As a result, while all the triggers to move to APL 2 were met, the
Bank's portfolio was restructured to merge the second Phase of the SDFP and the second
phase of the rural infrastructure project (PNIR) into the Participatory Local Development
Project (PLDP), which was approved by the Board on April 27, 2006.

The follow-up project aims to assist the Government in setting up an effective framework
for participatory local development, decentralization, and resource mobilization and



                                                10

transfer to local governments and communities, so as to deliver services more efficiently
in rural areas and the poorest cities. The goal is to create a harmonized national program
with a common implementation platform, based under the Prime Minister's Office. The
new project combines elements of its two predecessors. From the SDFP, the PLDP has
retained the focus on poverty targeting, the funding of village-level initiatives and
capacity building as well as support to expanded micro-finance services to rural
communities. In line with the PNIR experience, funds would flow directly into local
government accounts through normal national fiduciary channels to support investments
in local development plans. Although the overall level of IDA resources for the new
credit is less than was anticipated for the second phases of the two APLs combined, the
PNDL has leveraged US$137 million in Government resources, including commitments
on the decentralization of the Consolidated Investment Budget in the health and
education sectors.

The ICR review team concurs with the Bank and Government decision to move in this
direction. As global experiences demonstrate, if implemented effectively, a harmonized
"local development approach" may result in substantive gains in local service delivery
and improvements in rural livelihoods. While the potential benefits of a consolidated
CDD program with increased focus on local governments are great, there is also the risk
of losing momentum and capacity, and of weakening the community-based
implementation and accountability arrangements. The PNDL PAD accurately identifies
these risks and key performance indicators include as a target a minimum level of
resources flowing through to community groups. Also, the PNDL Operational Manual
includes the use of participatory planning and decision-making as well as other
community-level implementation mechanisms, which yielded successful outcomes under
SDF. A national charter that defines the rights and responsibilities of local governments
vis à vis local associations in villages and urban districts will be developed.

As the world of business mergers teaches, the challenges of merging different institutions
are considerable and often underestimated. The merger of SDF and PNIR into the new
PNDL is no exception. While efforts were made to listen to both parties and take the
best from both projects, sensitivities run high and the ICR review team collected a
number of grievances from SDF staff who felt their views and expertise were not given
enough weight.       For example, technical teams from both the SDF and the PNIR
participated in project design workshops, but SDF management indicated that their inputs
were not fully incorporated in the final PNDL design or Operational Manual and that
they were not treated as an equal party in the design process. In retrospect, given the
politically sensitive and complex nature of the process, it appears that a preliminary
"independent" institutional assessment laying out objective principles to guide the
process and ensure an orderly transfer of competencies, systems and continuity of good
practices could have helped in containing the inevitable frustrations arising in these
situations.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)



                                                11

The project was highly relevant to the country's development priorities and the Bank
assistance strategy, both at the time of preparation and at project closing, as evidenced by
the focus on vulnerable groups and rural poverty in the second PRSP and the approval of
the follow-on operation.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

Achievement of project development objectives in terms of outputs were largely met or
surpassed and are described in detail in Annex 4. A total of 65 rural and urban districts
were reached with IDA financing, within which PPAs were carried out in 1,032 villages
and neighborhoods and 875 formulated technical proposals. Microprojects, with a
maximum financing of US$30,000, were implemented in 578 communities, or 130
percent of the original target. Sectoral reviews of the quality of the micro-projects found
that sectoral norms were respected and construction was of good quality. To increase
access to economic opportunities, 472 IGA projects were financed (US$3.7 million),
surpassing appraisal targets by 150 percent and 13 MFIs received a total of US$540,000,
including training of personnel, purchase of equipment, and awareness and outreach in
targeted rural communities. To build local capacity, the Grassroots Management Training
curriculum contained core modules on organizational and community development,
participatory planning and needs identification, financial management, procurement,
marketing and participatory monitoring and evaluation. Implementation experience saw
the progressive implication of community relays who became agents of training content
within villages. The component supported training for 1,215 community relays, 21,960
members of CBOs took part in the 5 day core GMT training, CBO members and relays in
turn trained 658,800 community members in GMT, as well as specific training to IGA
members and local government representatives. Key outputs of the poverty monitoring
component include support for national household surveys, institutional support to
various poverty-monitoring units and the development of a poverty monitoring
information system.

Outcome indicators to be monitored were changes in composite poverty scores in
beneficiary communities, effective targeting of resources and qualitative indicators of
satisfaction and transparency, which were met (see Annex 1). Overall, the project went
further than the expected outputs, with outcomes measured in a number of critical areas,
based on a beneficiary assessment, an impact evaluation and ex-post evaluations done for
all major sectors of intervention (education, health, water and sanitation, HIV-AIDS,
income generation, microfinance - see Annex 13 for a summary of study methodologies):

Component 1: Access to Basic Services and Community Infrastructure (Highly
Satisfactory)




                                                12

Coverage: Overall, SDFP increased access to basic services for 444,000 people living in
the poorest areas of Senegal, or about 8% of the rural population.

Poverty targeting: The 2005 World Bank study "Managing Risk and Vulnerability in
Rural Senegal" compared targeting outcomes of the main programs investing in rural
areas. The most pro-poor program was the SDF which allocated 93 percent of its
resources to the poorest quintile rural districts (CRs), compared with 46 percent for the
national rural infrastructure project and 20 to 26 percent for other multi-sectoral and
sectoral projects. A beneficiary assessment confirmed the villages as the poorest in those
districts. Household incidence analysis was not possible due to delays in the national
household survey, but qualitative evidence on local level inclusiveness is positive.

Outcomes at the Communauté Rurale (CR) level: Poverty rates declined in the rural
districts (CRs) where AFDS was active, as measured by the composite index of access to
basic services used by the National Statistics Department. Prior to the SDFP investments,
83 percent of the CRs covered by the project had poor access on the composite index, 11
percent had average access and 6 percent had good access. After the SDFP interventions,
the rate of poor access CRs fell to 75 percent, average increased to 13 percent and good
to 12 percent (Ndiaye 2006) based solely on the investments SDFP implemented. The
impact evaluation confirmed this tendency, with an estimate that 17 percent of the
villages benefiting from SDF investments would now be above the absolute poverty line
as measured at the baseline in terms of the composite index (DCEG 2006).

Outcomes at the village and household level:
    a) In the education sector, increases in classroom availability, accessibility and
        quality translated into enrollment gains. Project-supported primary schools had
        stronger enrollment growth rates than control group schools by a net gain of 6
        percentage points. Relative gains were stronger for girls, at 8 percentage points.
        The share of the population living within 1 km of a primary school rose from 29
        to 54 percent.
    b) In the health sector, the ex-post evaluation found that ninety-five percent of
        women with children in SDFP intervention areas reported having visited the
        health hut since it was constructed, resulting in increasing vaccination and
        consultation rates. Over one-third of local births were in the health hut, raising the
        overall average of births attended by skilled personnel to 61 percent in the SDFP
        rural intervention zones, in contrast to the overall rural average of 46 percent in
        2005 (DHS IV). The impact evaluation confirmed increased accessibility, with 72
        percent of the target population living more than 10 kilometers from a health
        center at the baseline, which fell to zero after the intervention. Presence of trained
        personnel increased from 4/100 to 21/100 villages for nurses and from 3/100 to
        17/100 villages for midwives.
    c) Each community microproject included a small budget for HIV-AIDS awareness
        and training. An ex-post evaluation found that over 95 percent of households


                                              13

        could correctly identify the main transmission modes for HIV and prevention
        strategies. Based on recall, 36 percent had engaged in casual sex before versus 26
        percent after the IEC intervention, with the drop in risky behavior more
        substantial for women. Reported condom use during casual sex increased from 39
        percent to 92 percent. Utilization of non-sterilized materials (shaving and scarring
        tools) was reduced from 29 percent to 2 percent. The majority knew the location
        of an HIV testing facility and 13 percent had been tested, versus a national
        average of less than 2 percent.
    d) In the water sector, the ex-post evaluation found that 89 percent of the
        investments showed very high utilization rates, and only 2 percent had low rates.
        Three-quarters of villagers declared that water provided sufficient quantity for
        their needs and 97 percent felt it was of good quality. Seventy percent of
        households in the intervention areas have to walk less than 100 meters to obtain
        water, reducing the time burden on women and children. The impact evaluation
        found an increase in the average number of liters consumed per capita per day
        from 18 to 28. Moreover, 83 percent of households treat water before consuming,
        100 percent reported understanding linkages between hygiene and illnesses, all
        those surveyed cleaned their water storage vessels daily and cleaning around the
        well site was satisfactory. For latrines, 96 percent were utilized, 98 percent were
        clean and all were in good condition.

Component 2: Micro-Finance and Income Generation (Satisfactory)
Income generating activities reached 27,515 direct beneficiaries, three-quarters of whom
were women. The goal was to create economic opportunities for vulnerable groups in the
target communities. The magnitude of impact on incomes varied by sector of economic
activity. Livestock investments, accounting for almost half of IGAs, generated revenues
above input costs in the first year in only 56 percent of cases, mainly due to high costs of
feed and other inputs. Investments in corn production in Fatick Region permitted an
expansion of 25 percent in areas under production and an annual profit to members.
Vegetable production in the Kolda region was less successful due to climatic and market
factors. Value-added processing (e.g. cereal milling) generated revenues on average 60
percent above costs and lightened the workload of almost 800 women. IGAs in petty
commerce were financially successful, with the women repaying into the group and
earning an average of US$200 per year in profit. Social capital was built with the
formation of the local IGA groups. Many of these local groups have joined into
federations (e.g. corn producers in Fatick, livestock producers in Kaolack) to form larger
commercial blocks (discussed in risks to development outcomes section).

For the MFIs, the goal was to help existing MFIs better serve the target population,
resulting in more efficient savings instruments and greater access to credit. In terms of
outcomes, project support led to greater volumes of activity, better ability to reach the
poor and greater financial sustainability. The ex-post evaluation found that for the first
round MFI beneficiary, DJOMEC, its membership grew at average annual increase of


                                             14

130 percent. The twelve MFIs receiving second round funding had only one year of post-
funding activity, but their membership grew by an average of 25 percent. The average
level of savings grew by 150 percent and of credit by 140 percent for DJOMEC and 72
percent and 67 percent, respectively, for the second round MFI recipients. Overall,
operational self-sufficiency and financial self-sufficiency improved. The loan loss rate
dropped from 9 to 5 percent. In terms of impact on MFI beneficiaries, there was an
increase of almost 10,000 new clients. Poor communities had greater access to MFIs via
the opening of 17 branch offices and the purchase of outreach equipment. There was a
significant shift in benefits towards women. At the baseline, men made up 35 percent of
DJOMEC members, women 30 percent and youth 35 percent. By the end of 2005,
women's share grew to about 50 percent. Innovative products were introduced to support
poorer clients, including a group revolving credit, an "AFDS credit" of US$100 targeted
to poor women, as well as check cashing and money transfer services. DJOMEC began
to channel international remittances using a money transfer agent, one of only two MFIs
in Senegal with this capacity at present, an important element of the rural safety net.
Since the project only supported outreach capacity and did not finance credit, there was
no negative distortion to the microfinance industry.

There were several elements of program design that, while not intended as such, had a
positive effect on local financial services. IGA groups were required to open a bank
account in a local MFI. Ex-post evaluations found that this was often the first contact
with a financial institution, leading to an increase in the client base. For social services
and infrastructure projects, deposits in local MFIs strengthened their financial resources
and volume of operations. Basing procurement decisions close to poor communities by
putting community committees in charge of contracting opened up opportunities for local
entrepreneurs, who tended to use the local MFIs for their financial services.

Component 3: Capacity Building (Highly Satisfactory)

The capacity building component, which reached over 650,000 community members, is
an outstanding example of how to develop training within CDD projects. The Grassroots
Management Training approach was well adapted to rural Senegal where literacy is low
and use of several local languages pre-dominates. As an indication of the quality of the
capacity building, households tended to give very high credibility ratings to SDF, were
satisfied with their participation and had high levels of knowledge and information about
the process steps. Several features made the program highly successful, including:
    a) organizing training as the first step in the micro-project cycle which made the
        community more capable of managing a complex process involving multiple
        actors;
    b) timing of training was linked to critical moments in the project cycle.
    c) the requirement that project committee members who received training were
        obliged to disseminate what they learned within their communities in replication
        sessions.
    d) the creation of community sub-committees for animation, information and


                                             15

        communications to support capacity building activities throughout the project
        cycle.
    e) the development of community 'relays' (relais communautaire) who received
        more intensive training and became technical development agents at the village
        level to disseminate messages, monitor the process and pass on training to others.

Component 4: Poverty Monitoring (Moderately satisfactory)
Outcomes varied by institutional actor:
    a) The PRSP Monitoring Unit fundamentally changed the way poverty reduction
        strategies are developed, implemented and monitored, including better integration
        with national budget processes. Coordination has improved, including consensus
        among all stakeholders on the PRSP monitoring indicators. The second PRSP
        was developed in a more decentralized framework with greater attention to
        gender and vulnerable groups thanks to project support. (Highly satisfactory)
    b) The project's support to the National Statistics Department provided critical
        funding to develop poverty data, including the first national household survey
        representative at the departmental level. The delays in producing the data mitigate
        somewhat the results in this area, but support to the creation of the Observatory of
        Human Conditions helped build longer-term capacity. (Moderately satisfactory)
    c) The Operational Monitoring Unit in the MSD created a core focal point within
        the historically weak Ministry and provided technical stability during a period
        when there were frequent changes in Ministers and three major institutional
        reconfigurations in its structure. It was less effective in changing the strategies or
        operating procedures of the on-going donor-financed projects. However, some of
        the best practices are being replicated in new projects.(Moderately satisfactory)
    d) The impact of the Poverty Monitoring Information System (PMIS) was negligible
        due to delays in its design and installation which were largely the result of afore-
        mentioned under design at approval. The system was complex and ambitious and
        it took two years to come to agreement amongst stakeholders on its content. The
        final product is technically of good quality, but compared to expectations at
        appraisal, has not yet demonstrated the expected level of operational
        performance. Nevertheless, it was the first instance in Senegal of cooperation
        between agencies to design a common platform to share program and poverty
        information. (Moderately Unsatisfactory).

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

As detailed in Annex 5, rate of return analysis is not applicable to such small-scale
investments in social services where benefits are difficult to quantify and have positive
externalities (the bulk of micro-projects were in health, education and rural water
supply). Rather, economic analysis included: (a) following sectoral and technical



                                              16

standards for such interventions, (b) controlling unit costs and cost per beneficiary levels,
and (c) for MFI and IGA investments, business plans were developed. The efficiency of
the project is rated as substantial based on the following analysis:

Ex-Post Efficiency Analysis:
    · In terms of cost efficiency of micro-projects in public infrastructure and services,
        unit cost of school construction and water supply, the two sectors where ex-post
        cost analysis was carried out, had lower unit costs than alternative
        implementation arrangements. For example, the unit cost per usable meter of
        space in classroom constructed by the SDF was between 82 and 87 percent the
        cost of other implementing arrangements (central government, local government,
        Agetip).
    · While the time frame is too short (one year) to determine longer-range
        profitability, ex-post analysis of IGAs found a wide variance in performance.
        Returns appear to be highest for commerce, value-added processing and certain
        agricultural and fishing investments.
    · Data on the financial rate of return and profitability of MFI activities found that
        the rate of return on portfolio for participating MFIs in 2005 ranged from 6.1
        percent to 22.4 percent, with an unweighted average of 13 percent.
    · Community facilitation and capacity building were made more efficient at Mid-
        Term by changing the intensity and delivery mode. Overall, capacity building
        cost was about 7 percent of a community investment project versus an appraisal
        estimate of 20 percent which was seen excessive as project implementation
        progressed.
    · Administrative costs (including staff, operating costs and monitoring and
        evaluation) of the SDF were within regional norms at about 12 percent.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project development objectives were met and in some areas largely surpassed in
terms of initial coverage targets, targeting of the poorest areas, improvements in
household and community outcome indicators from the infrastructure and services
created, and expansion of economic opportunities. This was highly relevant to Senegal's
objectives in its PRSP. The capacity building was best practice and resulted in high
levels of beneficiary satisfaction, involvement and transparency, as well as integration of
vulnerable groups (women, youth, disabled). The use of community management of
resources was a successful innovation for Senegal and resulted in lower unit costs and
important capacity and empowerment effects. The overhead and intermediation costs,
which were perceived as too high after the initial round of contracting NGO facilitators
and higher cost senior trainers were significantly reduced at Mid-Term resulting in a
reasonably efficient structure in place upon which investments could be scaled up. In
terms of national poverty monitoring, the results were mixed, but with some extremely
successful elements. The delays in the PMIS sub-component resulted in its rating as



                                              17

moderately unsatisfactory in terms of outcome. However, the PMIS represents less than
10 percent of the poverty monitoring component and 3 percent (in terms of financing) of
the overall program and its impact is likely to be felt in the future.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project approach was to integrate vulnerable groups into the community processes
and capacity building, including women, youth and the disabled:
     a) The community facilitation process included facilitated focus group discussions
         with vulnerable groups to help mitigate exclusion and elite capture;
     b) Women were targeted in terms of promoting their integration in community
         decision-making and economic activities. For example, 75 percent of the
         treasurer positions in the IGAs projects were occupied by women;
     c) Integration of disabled included explicit identification of disability issues in the
         community planning process, inclusion of access issues in technical designs and
         reduction of social exclusion by incorporating positive images of disabled people
         in leadership roles in the GMT activities. There were several specific community
         investments oriented to the disabled, including a community-based rehabilitation
         center that provides training and has generated incomes for local disabled. The
         SDF experience with the disabled was made into a film that has interested other
         countries in the approach and has been cited by the Bank's Disability Unit.
     d) Youth were prime beneficiaries of the IGA projects, as villages sought to stem
         the exodus of rural youth by channeling them into productive activities.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

At the community level, the combination of high quality capacity building and transfer of
responsibilities for project management created ability to manage resources as well as
developed overall competencies in social control, community organization, financial
management and other skills that go beyond any single community investment. Of note
was the attention to inclusiveness, targeting women, youth and the disabled who are
usually marginalized in community consultations and decision-making. Social capital
was built and community organizations strengthened, including the creation of regional
federations comprised of community relays and beneficiaries of IGA projects.
Community relays represent a group of technical leaders within poor communities and
may become a political and social force representing the communities. Local MFIs were
strengthened directly via grants to support their outreach to poor communities, as well as
indirectly through the stimulation of financial flows to poor communities through
community management of project resources. Local contractors, typically not able to
compete in Dakar-based public sector contracts, gained valuable experience.

At the national level, the SDF raised the profile of vulnerable groups and poor
communities. It proved that local development from the grassroots level up is technically,


                                               18

economically and socially feasible and can be scaled up to meet the MDGs. It also played
an important role in the broader debates about the direction of poverty reduction in
Senegal. For example, its Director served as the chair of the Vulnerable Groups working
group in the design and monitoring of the Bank's Poverty Reduction Support Credits.
The SDF also played a leadership role in developing the National Social Protection
Strategy which was co-led by the Ministry of Social Development and the Ministry of
Labor and served to orient the second PRSP in this area. The National Social Protection
Strategy fed into a stronger and more technically developed pillar of support to
vulnerable groups within the second PRSP.

Beyond the SDF itself, the project had a high institutional impact on how poverty
reduction strategy is developed and monitored. The PRSP Monitoring Unit changed the
nature of the process in Senegal, providing harmonization and strategic leadership and
promoting consultation. The Unit has focal points in each sectoral ministry and
committees at regional level which received support through the project. Support to the
national statistics effort helped consolidate the nation's statistical agenda of core
monitoring surveys. The institutional impact on the MSD was less dramatic, but given
the instability of the Ministry, played a vital role in shoring up institutional capacity.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


With respect to the micro-finance and income generation component, there were several
elements of program design that, while not intended as such, had a positive effect on
local financial services. IGA groups were required to open a bank account in a local MFI.
Ex-post evaluations found that this was often the first contact with a financial institution,
leading to an increase in the client base. For social services and infrastructure projects,
deposits in local MFIs strengthened their financial resources and volume of operations.
Basing procurement decisions close to poor communities by putting community
committees in charge of contracting opened up opportunities for local entrepreneurs, who
tended to use the local MFIs for their financial services.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Annex 8 summarizes the Beneficiary Survey results by indicator. Section 4.2 on the
Achievement of the Project Development Objective also utilizes the results of the
beneficiary survey results amongst other evaluations.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


Access to Basic Services and Community Infrastructure. Ex-post and impact evaluations
found that nearly all of the social service and infrastructure projects were operational and
sustainability is deemed likely. By sector:



                                                19

    a) Education: The ex-post evaluation found the schools better staffed than
        comparators. Capacity building to school management committees increased
        parent involvement. Under the Education for All initiative, the Government will
        ensure funds for salaries and textbooks to reach 100 percent gross admission rate
        by 2010, aided by debt relief. It can be assumed that the combination of intense
        community and parental involvement, improved physical condition of the school
        including sanitary facilities and an enabling supply-side environment in terms of
        increased overall funding for teaching positions explain this result.
    b) Water and sanitation: Ex-post evaluations found good technical quality and that
        the local management committees had sufficient technical and institutional
        capacity to ensure maintenance. In 2005, representatives from 226 villages with
        water supply projects created a network (RECOGE), electing a commission and
        identifying potential for technical partnerships. For latrines, community
        committees visit homes weekly to assess hygiene and maintenance and are
        empowered to levy small fines.
    c) Health: It has historically been difficult for the sector ministry to maintain quality
        primary health care services in rural Senegal. The project's focus on community-
        based health huts takes into consideration this weakness. No staff is paid by the
        Ministry of Health, rather local traditional midwives and community health
        agents receive small remunerations for services directly from the community. The
        project financed extensive training (four months) to these local health workers.
        Revolving funds to stock basic medicines have a long history in Senegal and
        people are accustomed to paying for health services. The impact evaluation found
        that essential medicines were available in 95 percent of the health interventions
        and increasing utilization rates observed in the ex-post evaluations bodes well for
        future sustainability. To maximize effectiveness, adequate interface with second
        tier health centers is necessary. The MOH is seeking to improve rural health
        services in order to meet MDG health goals. Increased health financing to rural
        areas is a critical prior action under the Bank's budget support (PRSCs).
    d) Socio-economic infrastructure: Grain storage and markets generate receipts to
        finance maintenance and local management structures are in place. Some of the
        markets will need to increase sellers over time to optimize the infrastructure
        created, but this is a reasonable scenario as rural areas continue to develop.

Access to Micro-Finance and Income Generation
For the income generating activities, sustainability is uncertain and varies by area of
activities. The IGA members use funds on a rolling basis as working capital that gets
reinvested, which should help sustain the business activities in the near future. Twenty-
three percent of the value of the initial grants had been reconstituted in MFI accounts of
the IGA groups at project closing. Over the longer-term, like business start-ups in
general, not all IGAs will succeed. However, the majority do appear to have built up the
income base of beneficiaries and developed their capacity for managing expanded
economic activities, including developing linkages with local savings and credit


                                               20

institutions. The creation of a federation of livestock IGA groups in Kaolack
(FEDERGEM) has created greater chances for longer-term success through coordinated
commercialization strategies and a partnership agreement with the ADB-financed
Livestock Support Project for marketing and other technical support. A similar
experience with the federation of corn producers in the department of Foundiougne has
helped reconstitute seed stocks, with each member contributing seeds to the federation
from each harvest as a sustainability strategy. The federation has made arrangements to
buy inputs in bulk and has a bulk sales contract with a private company. Moreover, local
technical services (ANCAR, sectoral agencies) were involved in supervision of IGAs,
thereby creating linkages between IGAs and permanent local technical agents.

The overall sustainability of the microfinance outcome is highly likely. The expansion of
MFI services to poor communities achieved under the project led to significant increases
in client base and improved MFI financial sustainability. There is a good legal structure
underpinning microfinance in Senegal and the Government exercises effective
supervision of the industry, which has a mature and healthy portfolio as of 2005.

Capacity Building
The success of the capacity building and "learning by doing" is likely to lead to
sustainable improvements in institutional development at the local level. The CBOs have
the level of experience to engage in greater responsibilities in local development,
including pressing for more accountability from local governments and sector ministries
operating in their communities. The sustainability of these community structures would
have been highly likely had the second phase of the APL been implemented as planned
since there would have been more time to consolidate gains and a greater depth of
experience accumulated. Nonetheless, the project's emphasis on forming of community
relays and replication sessions has created a critical mass of trained people at the village
level that can use the skills acquired in other areas of public and private local affairs.
There are signs that impacts have some traction. The community relays have formed into
regional federations. One such federation, ARCADE in the Kaolack region, has entered
into a contract with the national HIV-AIDS program to carry out IEC activities and a
partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture to plant 1,500 hectares of sesame in the
villages represented by the relays. The Community Resources Centers built under the
project and managed by these regional federations further support the sustainability of
community organizations.

Poverty Monitoring
By sub-component:
    a. The PRSP Monitoring Unit is now a permanent unit within the Ministry of
        Finance and for over a year its costs have been absorbed within the national
        budget. Its credibility and the centrality of the PRSP in Senegal make highly
        continuity likely.
    b. The Department of Statistics has gone through the institutional change necessary


                                            21

         to transform its legal status into the National Statistics and Demographic Agency.
         This will allow better remuneration and more stability of staff. It has adopted as
         part of the national statistical agenda the carrying out of the Poverty Monitoring
         Survey every two years, the ESAM national household survey every five years
         and the national Census every ten years as the Government's core welfare
         tracking tools. The Observatory of Human Conditions has not yet received its full
         legal charter but has donor support from UNDP for the immediate future.
     c. The Ministry of Social Development and donors continue to support the
         functioning of the Operational Monitoring Unit. The need for such a unit remains
         high as donors like ADB and UNDP are preparing or have just launched follow-
         on operations for the community-based projects under the MSD and the Ministry
         has a central role in implementing the agenda of social protection for vulnerable
         groups in the new PRSP.
     d. There is uncertainty on the future use and sustainability of the Poverty
         Monitoring Information System. During the ICR mission, the MSD expressed its
         commitment to continue using the system as the main MIS for the Operational
         Monitoring Unit and the follow-on project under the ADB. At the time of writing
         this ICR, the permanent status of the server and the system is being decided by
         the four agencies involved in PMIS.

Sustainability of the Social Development Fund Agency:                The SDF is an agency
within the MSD created as a separate legal entity and governed by a board of directors.
Given the dearth of effective implementing structures in the area of vulnerable groups
and the challenge of achieving results in that area in the second PRSP, a decision was
made to extend the life of the SDF to revise its mandate to implement core programs to
extend its life, as agreed in the General Assembly meeting in October 2006.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team worked with the Government to bring a greater focus on poverty and
targeted poverty interventions. The Bank was instrumental in bringing international
lessons learned to the benefit of project design. Greater attention could have been placed
on the broader institutional questions, including linkages with other CDD-type programs
as well as a more realistic appreciation of what was achievable in the short-term for
developing a national poverty monitoring information system.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory



                                                22

Supervision missions were carried out at least twice a year, including a very effective
Mid-Term Review which readjusted delivery models for community facilitation and
capacity building. The HQ-based Task Team Leader was supported by the Country
Office sectoral and fiduciary staff. The Task Team had little turnover and was staffed
with sufficient sectoral expertise. Of note, a Bank senior microfinance specialist was a
permanent member of the team. The Task Team Leader was effective at integrating SDF
staff into the broader international learning events around social funds, community-
driven development, social protection, and disability in order to tap into international best
practice. The Team also was responsive to opportunities like the Japanese Grant
financing of expansion of SDF activities into the post-conflict areas of the Casamance.

However, there were minor shortcomings, including prompt turn around on no objection
requests on complex activities like the PMIS and cashflow constraints on the Special
Account particularly toward the end of the project. The Bank underestimated the
institutionally and politically complex nature of such an institutional merger.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank's role in introducing new ideas and helping to develop effective
poverty interventions has been exemplary in this project, including tapping into
international best practice. Supervision was effective. However, performance was
somewhat mitigated by weaknesses in design of the poverty monitoring component and
transition strategy.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government developed the project as a core feature of the national poverty
alleviation program. The creation of an Agency was consistent with institutional capacity
constraints and the NGO/CBO focus of the project. A good technical team was put in
place to develop project mechanisms. But, the lack of institutional definition during
preparation left some of the design details of the poverty monitoring component in flux.

Government consistently supported the project, including timely availability of
counterpart funding. The SDF General Assembly provided linkages to broader social
policy. The MSD supported the SDF throughout and saw it as one of its core programs
rather than an adjunct entity. The Government has capitalized on many of the gains made
under the project, including institutional transformations in the poverty monitoring
strategy and greater appreciation of the need to support vulnerable groups, as seen in the
priorities of the new PRSP and the approval of the national social protection strategy.

Institutional instability adversely affected project execution of the poverty monitoring


                                             23

component. Delays in political decisions about the institutional anchorage of the national
poverty alleviation programs and the PRSP unit resulted in delays in implementation.
Frequent changes of Ministers and several institutional reorganizations in the MSD
created an unstable institutional environment in the Ministry of tutelage.

During the transition to the new project, the Government was slow to define institutional
arrangements, which led to a loss of momentum and institutional dislocations. The
decision to place the new program as a PIU under the Prime Minister's office may
provide a higher political profile, but risks the longer-term institutional mainstreaming.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                Implementing Agency: AFDS
                The implementing agency performed to high standards of quality. The
                governance structure was headed by a General Assembly with
                representatives from central ministries, local government and NGOs. The
                five annual operation plans and annual budgets were approved by the
                General Assembly. The SFD was staffed by highly skilled and committed
                professionals, both at the central level and the five regional offices (six
                including the Ziguinchor office created to administer the Japanese Grant
                funds.

                The manuals and training materials developed were first-rate. The
                community processes designed were innovative in their integrative
AFDS            approach to vulnerable groups and their facilitation of community
                management of resources. Financial management and procurement
                functions were executed according to Bank standards. Despite weaknesses
                in some parts of the monitoring and evaluation, due diligence was carried
                out with a large number of technical studies and evaluations done to assess
                program performance. The SDF successfully managed the additional
                workload     associated   with    the   poverty    monitoring   component's
                implementation arrangements. The PMIS was technically very complex to
                design and put in place, which was underappreciated at the project
                preparation stage. Despite some limitations of Government in developing a
                coherent transition strategy, the agency performed extremely well,
                particularly in the challenging circumstances during the last year when its
                future was in doubt.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the implementing agency performed very well and the Government supported
the project in reaching its development objectives. Some of the drawbacks, like



                                               24

institutional instability, are endemic in Senegal.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Critical Success Factors
The satisfactory outcomes of the project are due to a combination of factors, including:
    a) The use of an effective project management structure for piloting innovative
        approaches. In this case, the semi-autonomous structure of the SDF agency
        balanced with its placement in the social development ministry and overseen by a
        multi-secotoral Board allowed for the establishment of a high caliber team and
        integration with broader poverty reduction and sectoral policies.
    b) Allowing for flexibility and learning by doing. This ability to adapt was critical in
        developing more cost effective capacity building strategies and in capturing
        opportunities in the poverty monitoring component, like funding Senegal's
        Development Gateway.
    c) Building on the strengths of civic engagement and civil society to overcome
        capacity constraints on the public sector side in reaching the poorest communities
        and in developing ownership and self-help spirit that drove positive outcomes at
        the community level.
    d) An emphasis on capacity building and communications as an integral part of
        community investments.

On Community-Level Investments
The overarching lesson learned from this project is that even the poorest, most remote
rural villages are able to actively engage in the development process and can responsibly
and transparently manage resources and implement investments. The project confirms
the strong grassroots level pillar of a longer-term national CDD strategy and program.

CDD approaches can successfully reach vulnerable groups. Explicit geographical
targeting to ensure access by the poorest communities, twinned with inclusive local
facilitation that brings in women, youth, the disabled and other often marginalized groups
can result in development efforts with impact on the poorest.

Capacity building is critical and can be transformative. There were several specific
approaches and mechanisms used in the Project that explain the success of these efforts:
    · Attention to capacity building, including establishing a permanent unit within the
        agency with in-house expertise and developing manuals at the start of the
        program;
    · Using well-tested community facilitation models, like Grassroots Management
        Training, which was particularly well-adapted to low literacy levels, and
        developing facilitation manuals in local languages;
    · Creating a special community-level focus on capacity building, including


                                              25

        establishment of community IEC committees, and creation of community relays

Although early findings were cautious on channeling credits through MFIs in social fund
programs, the approach of supporting existing MFI to better serve poor clients shows
promise. This should be seen in the context of access to modern savings and credit
mechanisms as an essential social risk management tool for poor households.

The use of community contracting, with procurement and financial management handled
locally, has significant positive spillover benefits beyond the infrastructure itself. Access
of local contractors to contracts and of local MFIs to the financial services associated
with these programs creates local economic multipliers, links poor households with more
efficient financial services and helps strengthen the sustainability of local MFIs.

Increasing local management of community affairs reinforces citizen control and bottom
up accountability. Integration of marginalized groups is an important part of this, an
important part of which is to integrate these groups into decision-making processes and
structures at the local level.

And more generally, community-level programs are more likely to be successful if
learning by doing is explicitly built into project design. For example, alterations to the
community facilitation and capacity building models at Mid-Term were highly effective
at increasing efficiency and effectiveness of the model, but only because both the Bank
and the SDF were open to this kind of flexibility.

On Scaling Up and Harmonizing CDD Approaches
A further lesson learned on CDD approaches is the need for cautious planning in the
harmonization and scaling up efforts now underway in the Africa Region so that the
positive experiences of different approaches are capitalized:
    a) Deal with the institutional issues early on and in an explicit fashion. An
        institutional transition plan and careful analysis is crucial in order no to lose the
        policy implementation and institutional gains made. It is also important to defuse
        the potential risks of pitting local governments versus community-based
        approaches in blending teams and setting out a multi-faceted local development
        agenda that includes communities and sectoral agencies.
    b) Communities need to be well-informed of pending institutional changes and the
        implications at the local level. Rural villages visited during the ICR mission
        perceived that SDF was closing and were not clear on their interface with the new
        program.
    c) Bringing in donors to a common implementation arrangement (and eventually
        pooled funding) is an important element of harmonization and scaling up and
        requires a great deal of up-front preparation and negotiation. Government
        commitment through increasing its own resources to the local level can help
        spear-head this.


                                             26

Poverty Monitoring and Institutional Development
Institutional leadership, commitment and capacity on the part of the client is crucial for a
policy agenda to be pursued and implemented; i.e. the mainstreaming of the PRSP unit
into the Ministry of Finance, the development of the national social protection strategy
which underpins the inclusion of social protection as a pillar in the PRSP under the
leadership of the PRSP unit and the Ministry of Finance.

In weak institutional environments, complex and integrated management information
systems linking multiple agencies are very difficult to achieve. It may be better to start
with more modest expectations and build from there. Advancing the development of
poverty statistics, for example by financing a national survey can feasibly be
incorporated into a CDD program. But it is an awkward platform to manage a more
ambitious program to build national-level poverty monitoring institutions. If the latter is
an objective of the Government, it would be better addressed under a separate operation.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

N.A.


(b) Cofinanciers

N.A.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



N.A.




                                           27

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project was designed as a ten-year Adjustable Program Loan (APL). The overall
program goal was that poor communities effectively manage their own development
resources and economic and social services with equal participation of vulnerable
groups. Phase 1 (3 years) was to set up the institutional mechanisms in five regions and
test approaches and procedures in a limited number of pilot communities. Phase II (3
years) was to scale up to reach all targeted communities within the program, as well as
harmonizing objectives and procedures of all donor-financed social funds operating in the
country. Phase III (4 years) was to fine-tune the operational mechanism and mainstream
the strategy nationwide to include other operations.

The project development objective of Phase I was to assist the poorest pilot communities
of Senegal to effectively improve their conditions by using the Social Development Fund
resources in priority development areas with participation of vulnerable groups: through:
(i) increasing access of the poor to basic social services; (ii) increasing access of the poor
to micro-finance products and services; (iii) building capacities in all beneficiaries and
financial intermediaries involved in the Project; and (iv) building institutional capacity
for the management, monitoring and evaluation of the poverty strategy of the Borrower.

Key performance indicators prioritized in the PAD were (see complete set in Annex 1):
Outcome Indicators
     · 75 % of the 300 test communities making development decisions based on
        participatory development plans responsive to the needs of the poorest
     · at least 50 % of the population within the test communities are aware of the basic
        processes of sub-projects' implementation and are satisfied with the outcomes
Output Indicators
     · 300 test communities requesting funds for sub-projects complying with SDF
        criteria
     · 50 % of vulnerable groups receiving TA meet MFI credit criteria
     · 75 % of projects formulated and implemented by the CBOs reflect criteria of
        sound design and are implemented according to the strategy of the SDF
     · 90 % of the test communities are satisfied with the services of the SDF and feel it
        is equitable and transparent
     · 90 % of vulnerable members of eligible test communities are aware of and
        understand the procedures of the projects financed by the Social Fund
Communities are targeted by the SDF based on data provided by Poverty Monitoring.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objective was not revised.



                                             28

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                               Original Target Values      Formally      Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator        Baseline
                    Value          (from approval      Revised Target       at Completion or
                                     documents)             Values            Target Years

Indicator 1 :    At least 75% of microprojects and subprojects funded by the Social Fund acheive
                 their intended results.
Value
(quantitative or 0%            75%                                      97%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         Not measured explicitly, but 97% of all funded projects were completed with 3%

achievement)     cancelled.

Indicator 2 :    At least 75% of test communities make development decisions based on their
                 Local Development Plan.
Value
(quantitative or 0%            75%                                      100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %         All participating communities have LDPs and all projects financed consistent

achievement)     with them

                 About 50% of the most vulnerable groups within the communities are aware of
Indicator 3 : the final result of the sub-project implementation and are satisfied with the
                 decision making.
Value
(quantitative or 0%            50%                                      Please see comment.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                     06/30/2006
Comments         Not measured explicitly for vulnerable groups -BA indicates overall satisfaction
(incl. %         levels are high. Focus groups interviews with youth and women indicate high
achievement) satisfaction levels and participation.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                  Baseline     Original Target Values      Formally      Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator        Value           (from approval          Revised      at Completion or Target
                                     documents)         Target Values            Years
               At least 300 communities requesting sub-projects to improve access to scocial
Indicator 1 : services and infrastructure are complying with AFDS funding criteria. at least
               75% of the projects are funded and completed
Value
(quantitative                 300 microprojects for                    875 project proposals

or             0              access to basic services                 submitted and 652

Qualitative)                  signed. 245 completed.                   financed and completed.



                                                 29

Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : 75% of projects funded are completed
Value
(quantitative
or            0             75%                                        97%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      3 percent were cancelled.
achievement)

Indicator 3 : At least 50% of vulnerable group CBOs receive TA under project meet MFI
              institution criteria
Value
(quantitative
or            0             50%                                        100%

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 01/31/2000                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      All CBOs trained to open bank accounts meet MFI criteria
achievement)

Indicator 4 : 90% of test communities satisfied with services and feel it is equitable and
              transparent
Value
(quantitative                                                          97% HHs overall

or            0             90%                                        satisfied in communities

Qualitative)                                                           with complete projects

Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006

Comments      87% HH felt target population corresponded to that of AFDS beneficiaries; 97%

(incl. %      HH participated in participatory identification, planning exercises and 98% HH

achievement)  were satisfied with process Over 50% HH knew procurement procedures and
              thought transparent
Indicator 5 : Communities targeted by SFD based on poverty targeting data
Value
(quantitative                                                          93 % of resources to

or            none          none                                       poorest 20% of

Qualitative)                                                           Communautés Rurales

Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Database on poverty conditions established
Value                       3 Annual Poverty                           ESAM II and Poverty
(quantitative n.a.          Alleviation reports                        Monitoring Survey
or                          published                                  carried out



                                               30

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Database on poverty conditions established
Value
(quantitative                                                          ESAM II and Poverty

or             n.a.                                                    Monitoring Survey

Qualitative)                                                           carried out

Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 8 :  At least 75 percent of funded projects include IEC with HIV/AIDS and STD
               modules delivered
Value
(quantitative
or             0            75 percent                                 100 percent

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Contracted MFIs have achieved 75 percent of their within vulnerable groups
Value
(quantitative
or             0            75 percent                                 +100 percent

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 12/31/2005                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Targets for youth and gender are surpassed in terms of outreach and credits

achievement)   distributed.

Indicator 10 : Contracted MFIs have achieved 75 percent of their within vulnerable groups
Value
(quantitative
or             0            75 percent                                 +100 percent

Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2000 06/30/2006                                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Targets for youth and gender are surpassed in terms of outreach and credits

achievement)   distributed.




                                               31

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     32

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                              Appraisal
                 Components                 Estimate (USD  Actual/Latest  Percentage of

                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M) Appraisal

ACCESS TO BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES
AND COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE BY                     12.35            14.51     117.49
POOR POPULATION
ACCESS TO MICRO-FINANCE SERVICES
BY POOREST COMMUNITIES                              19.79             4.24       21.42

CAPACITY BUILDING FOR VULNERABLE
GROUPS AND CBOS                                      3.54             3.54     100.00

POVERTY-REDUCTION MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM                                               9.79            11.62     118.69

                        Total Baseline Cost         45.47            33.91
Physical Contingencies                               0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.00
                        Total Project Costs         45.47
Front-end fee PPF                                    1.05             1.05     100.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00             0.00        0.00
                  Total Financing Required          46.52            34.96



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal
       Source of Funds           Type of                    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                               Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M) Appraisal

 Borrower                                            3.62             3.47       95.86
 INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                         30.00            30.00     100.00
ASSOCIATION
 FOREIGN SOURCES                    Japanese
(UNIDENTIFIED)                  Grant (JSDF)        12.90             2.00       15.50




                                          33

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            34

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Basic Social Services and Community Infrastructure: A total of 65 CR
and urban areas were reached with IDA financing, within which PPAs were carried out
in 1,032 villages and neighborhoods and 875 formulated technical proposals.
Microprojects, with a maximum financing of US$30,000, were implemented in 578
communities, or 130 percent of the original target. Beneficiary communities contributed
5% towards microproject costs. In terms of outputs:

    · In the health sector, 145 community health 'huts' (cases de santé), 17 health posts
       and 3 rural maternity centers were constructed, rehabilitated and/or equipped.
    ·   In education and training, 195 classrooms, 4 nursery schools, 6 multi-use
       training centers, 4 youth centers, 5 community resource centers and 5 socio-
       educational facilities were completed.
    · In water, 133 wells and 113 public standpipes were installed. Families benefited
       from 637 latrines.
    · In economic infrastructure, 58 grain storage facilities, 18 market places and 10
       vaccination parks were constructed and equipped. In addition, 4 community radio
       and Internet access projects were financed.

Sectoral reviews of the quality of the micro-projects found that sectoral norms were
respected and construction was of good quality. The initial target of two-thirds social
services ('software') and one-third infrastructure ('hardware') mix of the portfolio of
micro-projects proved unrealistic. Given the high poverty levels in the target
communities, community members prioritized infrastructure. Moreover, the integration
of 'hardware' and 'software' components within a single sectoral investment promoted
better outcomes. In the end, only 6 percent of micro-projects were 'software' alone.

Component 2: Micro-Finance and Income Generation:
In terms of IGAs:

    · 472 IGA projects were financed (US$3.7 million), surpassing appraisal targets by
       150 percent.
    · Grants, at an average of US$7,000 per group, benefited 27,515 members of
       CBOs.
    · The portfolio consisted of livestock investments (48 percent of financing),
       commerce (26 percent), value-added processing (13) percent, and agriculture (11
       percent).

In terms of MFI support:

    · The microfinance subcomponent supported 13 MFIs for a total of US$540,000,
       including training of personnel, purchase of equipment, and awareness and
       outreach in targeted rural communities.
    · This permitted the opening of 17 new service windows and the use of




                                           35

       'ambulatory' windows.

Execution of the MFI sub-component was delayed when open requests for submissions
of proposals resulted in proposals that lacked quality, were exorbitant in cost or were not
oriented to the project's strategic directions. In the first round, only DJOMEC presented
an acceptable business plan, with financing beginning in December 2003. The second
round of 12 MFIs entered execution in May 2005 with a shortened and simplified
process.

Component 3: Capacity Building: The Grassroots Management Training curriculum
contained core modules on organizational and community development, participatory
planning and needs identification, financial management, procurement, marketing and
participatory monitoring and evaluation. Eight training manuals and illustrated guides
were produced in the four local languages in the project area (Wolof, Serere, southern
Pular and northern Pular). Training was delivered using role playing, local theater
groups and visual materials to be responsive to the low literacy levels of poor
communities. Implementation experience saw the progressive implication of community
relays who became agents of training content within villages. The component supported:

   · Training for 1,215 community relays.
   · 21,960 members of CBOs took part in the 5 day core GMT training.
   · CBO members and relays in turn trained 658,800 community members in GMT.
   · Specific     technical training (livestock and vegetable raising techniques,
       management of local health committees, maintenance of water supply, training
       for community health workers and traditional midwives) reached 1,156 people.
       1,638 members of training and animation sub-committees received training in
       communication techniques.
   · 465 local government officials benefited from training in participatory local
       planning,    financial    management,      procurement,      local  budgeting,  and
       organizational dynamics.
   · The project financed five regional Community Resources Centers and six Multi-
       Use Training Centers.          The Community Resource Centers have local
       documentation (for example all PPAs), GMT training module materials and other
       support to the local federations of community relays. The Multi-Use Training
       Centers provide a space for local training in income generation, health and
       hygiene, and literacy in national languages.

Component 4: Poverty Monitoring and Project Management: To implement the poverty
monitoring sub-component, conventions were signed with the Ministry of Finance's
PRSP Monitoring Unit, the National Statistics Department, and the Ministry of Social
Development. Outputs were achieved in four key areas:
   1. PRSP Monitoring Unit (US$2.1 million).             The project provided institutional
       support to the PRSP Unit including basic equipment as well as financing of the
       monitoring studies of the first PRSP and the development of the second PRSP.
       This included over 40 studies and reports, in such themes as the integration of
       sectoral strategies into the PRSP and the development of a social accounting



                                             36

       input-output matrix. The project supported participatory regional workshops to
       monitor PRSP implementation and develop proposals for the second PRSP.
       Workshops also developed consensus on the list of core PRSP monitoring
       indicators. The project supported the gender working group to improve the
       gender focus of the second PRSP. The project also financed the development of
       Senegal's Development Gateway portal (www.senegaldeveloppement.com/test).
   2. Statistical base for poverty monitoring (US$2.6 million). The project supported
       the 2000 ESAM II national household survey and the Poverty Monitoring Survey
       in 2006. The ESAM II survey resulted in a revised national poverty line and
       poverty analysis and underpinned the first PRSP. The Poverty Monitoring
       Survey of 2006 was the first national household survey representative at the
       departmental level. Support also included equipment to establish the Living
       Conditions Observatory, in concert with UNDP. Both the processing of the
       ESAM II data and the launching of the Poverty Monitoring Survey were
       significantly delayed due to institutional changes within the department to
       transform it into a semi-autonomous National Statistical Agency. Due to these
       constraints, a planned urban services survey was not carried out.
   3. The Ministry of Social Development created the Operational Monitoring Unit
       (US$400,000) to coordinate the poverty reduction projects under the Ministry,
       including community-based programs funded by the World Bank, the ADB and
       UNDP. The project supported part of the staffing and equipment. As part of the
       harmonization agenda, three studies were carried out on (a) comparative
       strategies and experience with capacity building, (b) income generation and
       access to microfinance and (c) monitoring and evaluation. A documentation
       center was established and training provided for project and ministry staff in
       monitoring and evaluation. The unit participated in the development of the
       national social protection strategy and the MSD's ten year strategic plan.
   4. The integrated Poverty Monitoring Information System (PMIS) (US$400,000)
       was governed by a memorandum of understanding between the agencies
       involved that assigned roles and responsibilities (the SDF, the PRSP Monitoring
       Unit, the statistics department and the Operational Monitoring Unit of the MSD).
       The preparatory process took from 2002 to 2004, longer than originally
       anticipated. In mid-2005 the system began to be implemented, including
       installation of equipment, networking and beta testing. Initial training has been
       carried out and data entry is underway, but not yet fully complete.

Project Management: The Credit financed part of the administrative costs of the Social
Development Fund Agency. In addition to the central office, 5 regional offices were set
up. The sub-component also supported the monitoring and evaluation studies, including
joint annual reviews.




                                            37

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Cost-benefit analysis is not applicable to such small-scale investments in social services where
benefits are difficult to quantify and have positive externalities. The regional Technical Evaluation
Committees (TEC) screened project proposals against a set of technical and economic criteria to
ensure soundness with sectoral norms and cost efficiency. The facilitated identification of community
priorities ensured allocative efficiency. A technical justification explanation had to be made to the
TEC in the case of departure from the top priority identified.

Cost-efficiency analysis of microprojects:
In terms of unit costs of construction, a study of classroom unit costs found that the SDFP had
average unit cost per usable surface area of about US$132 per unit, compared with US$160 for urban
classrooms constructed through delegated contract management (AGETIP), US$152 for rural
classrooms through local governments (via PNIR), and US$154 for the MOE's school construction
department. The total (not per unit) cost of SDFP school projects was often higher than average
because it included latrines, containing walls and an administrative area, but this increased school
quality and school health. In terms of total school construction cost, the highest costs were in the
donor-financed programs with the MOE (US$22,000 ­ US$10,000 per classroom), followed by the
multi-sectoral decentralized projects (SDFP, PNIR and PAC around US11,000 to 12,000) with the
least expensive those of the MOE funded by the national budget at US$9,000 but with wide
differences in quality, accompanying infrastructure and equipment etc. In the water sector, an ex-post
evaluation found an average linear meter cost of US$240 compared to between US$500-600 for
comparable water supply operators (CDE, SASIF, SVTP).

Cost-benefit analysis of IGAs and MFIs:
For economic investments, IGAs and MFIs had to prepare full business plans. While the time frame
is too short (one year) to determine longer-range profitability, ex-post analysis of IGAs found a wide
variance in performance. Returns appear to be highest for commerce, value-added processing and
certain agricultural and fishing investments.

Economic analysis of the changes in MFI portfolios found increases in savings base and expansion of
lending activities. Operational self-sufficiency (total operating costs divided by operating income)
grew from 65 to 119 percent and financial self-sufficiency (total operating revenues divided by total
administrative and financial expenses) from 57 to 67 percent. Data on the financial rate of return and
profitability of MFI activities found that the return on portfolio for participating MFIs in 2005 ranged
from 6.1 percent to 22.4 percent, with an unweighted average of 13 percent.

Cost-efficiency analysis of community facilitation and CBO capacity building:
In term of cost-efficiency of the community facilitation model, the initial approach relied on
contracting national NGOs. Quality varied widely and the cost per village was found to be too high at
$5,600. Cost savings on facilitation were made for the second round by combining the PPA and
prioritization of community needs into the same process and reducing the accompanying period to 18
months, reducing unit costs to $2,900 per village, or about 11 percent of a microproject cost.
However, much of the upfront participatory planning costs would normally be amortized over several
rounds of microprojects. Similarly, the cost of accompanying the IGA projects was reduced from
$4,000 to US$900 per village, or from almost 60% of average IGA cost to about 15%.



                                             38

Community Facilitation and Technical Support Costs (F CFA)
Community facilitation and technical support                         Total Disbursed
PPAs                                                                 436 727 255
Technical support to Microprojects                                   1 516 385 944
   As a share of Microproject Costs                                  17%
Technical Support to IGAs                                            653 085 644
   As a share of IGA projects                                        39%
Total                                                                2 606 198 843
As share of total program cost (net of poverty monitoring) 16%

In terms of capacity building, the PAD estimated that capacity building would cost about 21 percent
of the value of the community investments. The initial delivery mode was relatively high cost and
high quality. Following the Mid-Term Review a strategy was adopted to reduce unit costs while
preserving quality. Over the total program the average cost per person trained was about US$25. This
unit cost reduced considerably as the model shifted from senior trainers to greater use of community
relays. Technical training costs were reduced from US$4,700 per village to US$1,000 with increased
supervision by local technical agencies and community relays. Overall, capacity building costs were
reduced to about 7 percent of the community investment project.

Administrative costs:
The administrative costs are within the regional averages for this type of program and contained a
great deal of fixed start-up costs (development of manuals, equipping offices etc.) that would be
amortized under the scale-up scenario.

Administrative Costs as a Share of Total Project Costs (in FCFA)
 Operational expenses of SDF                                   1 336 002 072
 Salaries of SDF                                               1 258 831 000
  Total Administrative Costs                                   2 594 833 072
 Total Program Cost                                            20 918 912 552
 Share of Administrative Costs                                 12.40%
 Total Project Management Subcomponent as share
 of Program Cost *                                             13.6%
* Includes equipment, audits and evaluations and administrative costs




                                                  39

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Aissatou Diack         Sr Public Health Spec.  AFTH2
Bourama Diaite         Sr Procurement Spec.    AFTPC
Astou Diaw-Ba          Team Assistant          AFCF1
Geraldo Joao Martins Sr Education Spec.        AFTH2

Ziva Razafintsalama    Senior Rural
                       Development Speci       AFTS1

Osval Rocha Andrade Financial Management
Romao                  Specialis               AFTFM

Andre Ryba             Lead Financial Sector
                       Speciali                AFTFS

Fily Sissoko           Sr Financial
                       Management Specia       LCSFM

Marietou Toure         Language Program
                       Assistant               AFTH2


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO              IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/18/2001              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            0.00
2   12/21/2001              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            1.61
3   04/06/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            2.28
4   10/16/2002              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            3.35
5   05/08/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            6.23
6   10/02/2003              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            8.01
7   04/19/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           10.78
8   09/16/2004              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           13.92
9   02/10/2005              Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           20.24
10 11/14/2005               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           28.52
11 06/29/2006               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                           33.88




                                             40

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                 consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY96                                                       0.28
                    FY97                                                       0.19
                    FY98                                                      14.69
                    FY99                                                     117.66
                    FY00                                   58                 84.12
                    FY01                                    34                 0.00
                    FY02                                                       0.00
                    FY03                                                       0.00
                    FY04                                                       0.00
                    FY05                                                       0.00
                    FY06                                                       0.00
                                    Total:                  92               216.94
Supervision/ICR
                    FY96                                                       0.00
                    FY97                                                       0.00
                    FY98                                                       0.00
                    FY99                                                       0.00
                    FY00                                                      18.28
                    FY01                                     6               142.03
                    FY02                                   27                120.16
                    FY03                                   26                 77.32
                    FY04                                   16                104.50
                    FY05                                   21                 98.81
                    FY06                                   14                 18.35
                    FY07                                     3                 0.00
                                    Total:                 113               579.45




                                        41

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                 Satisfactory       Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:           Satisfactory       Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         42

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Results are reflected in various parts of the report. Some additional indicators not
included in Annex 1-Results Framework and which were reported in the Beneficiary
Assessment on capacity improvements, transparency, satisfaction are as follows:

Capacity Improvements:

At least 75% of test community members are aware of information flow between
communities

Some 75 % of projects formulated and implemented by CBOs trained under project
reflect criteria of sound design

Achieved: 100% All projects approved by Technical Evaluation Committees were
formulated and implemented by CBOs and all passed design criteria

About 90% of NGOs private firms contracted by CBO following transparent procedures

Achieved: 100% Confirmed by procurement review results and beneficiary assessments

About 75% of the test communities understand the relationship of the NGOs to project
deliverables

Achieved: 86 percent of households surveyed knew the role of the OCB and 76 percent
the NGO facilitator/technical support role. Both had similar 'credibility' ratings

About 75%of trained communities in GMT have operational and structured committees
and are capable of mobilizing additional resources

Achieved: 100% All participating communities trained in GMT.

About 90 percent of test communities satisfied with services and feel it is equitable and
transparent

Achieved: Satisfaction: 67 percent of households were very satisfied and 17 percent
satisfied ­ 8 percent not satisfied with the general experience of the project. For only
those communities with projects underway or completed, score is 79 percent and 97
percent respectively.

Equity: 87 percent of households felt that target population corresponded to AFDS
beneficiaries; 14 percent felt those that benefited were not the neediest.

Transparency: 96 percent of households participated in the PPA and 98 percent in the
process to identify and prioritize community investments. 85 percent stated they
participated in project execution. 98 percent were satisfied with their participation in the



                                             43

process. 89% of household surveyed said their participated in decision-making instances
and that in 97 percent of cases community decisions were respected. 76 percent were
aware of criteria for selecting community organization. Over half of households knew of
the procurement procedures used and stated that contracting was transparent and 9
percent felt there had been favoritism in contractors chosen (about half of communities
surveyed had not yet passed the contracting phase).

About 90 percent of vulnerable members of eligible test communities are aware of SFD
objectives

Achieved: 97 percent of households surveyed felt the AFDS approach was appropriate
and 87 percent felt if was particularly relevant for their community (beneficiary
assessment)

One database for each test community

Achieved: PPAs collected data on each community




                                           44

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N.A.




                                  45

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The draft ICR was shared with the government team and discussed during a
videoconference on November 9, 2006. Government agreed with the findings,
conclusions and ratings presented in the report. Specific comments made during
the discussion have been incorporated in the text.

Government has also prepared its own report (in French) which is close to 90 pages and
which is available as part of the supporting documentation to this ICR. Below are the
highlights of the conclusions and recommendations of the Government report:

    1. The Social Development Fund project, which objectives were embedded within
       the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy has provided direct benefits to rural
       communities and improved their living conditions by providing increased funding
       for basic social and economic infrastructure at the local level. This, in turn, has
       improved access to and use of these services within the 52 "communautés
       rurales" covered by the project.
    2. The project has improved the conditions for income-generating activities to
       multiply and take root, which in turn have also resulted in increased rural
       employment. A substantive number of small-holder agriculture and animal
       husbandry projects have been supported through a partnership between the
       project, communities and micro-finance/savings and credit institutions.         The
       project has enabled the financial institutions to improve their outreach and get
       closer to the "client" by providing tailor-made credit facilities.
    3. With regard to capacity development and improvement of access to basic social
       services, the Social Development Fund has had a real impact through: (i)
       improved community-level structures which minimize social exclusion and
       discrimination and encourage participation of all community members in
       decision-making, project management and monitoring and evaluation; and (ii)
       increased access to education, potable water, health services and markets for
       close to 500,000 beneficiaries in 52 "communautés rurales" covered by the
       project which represents about 25 percent of the total population (about 212,000
       people) in the 52 "communautés rurales" having access to the full package of
       services noted above.
    4. The project has systematically addressed the needs of the vulnerable groups in
       design and implementation. Vulnerable groups were integrated in decision-
       making and management of sub-projects. Over 20 percent of sub-projects and 10
       percent of total project funds were devoted to specific interventions to improve
       the welfare and livelihoods of vulnerable groups.
    5. The increased level of funding for basic social and economic structure at the local
       level has also enabled the locally elected leaders to better fulfill their mandated
       roles and responsibilities vis-à-vis their constituencies.
    6. The evaluation also observes that the results attained could have been better if the
       allocation of resources at the local level was conducted more systematically and if
       the project had supported the local development planning process as a whole. In
       effect, it was not possible to have an overview of the total resources available and



                                             46

   the needs at a more macro level rather than just village level which probably
   resulted in an oversupply of some infrastructure in certain sectors in certain
   "communautés rurales".
7. The transition/evolution of the community-based organizations, from those which
   "implement" and "monitor" the completion of civil works to those which would
   operate and maintain the infrastructure, has not been consistently achieved. For
   this transition to be fully successful and sustainable, they would need further
   technical assistance. Furthermore, the relationship and sharing of responsibilities
   between the parent ministries or government agencies which are to provide
   support    and   financing     to   this    infrastructure and     community-based
  organizations are not completely clear. Hence, these observations suggest that
  the sustainability of results to date is not 100 percent secured in all instances.
8. The following key recommendations are made within the context of this
   evaluation:
       o The report observes that the practices of local development planning
           which support the decentralization process are of a long-term nature. The
           Social Development Fund project has within its implementation period
           planted a seed and supported this process from a bottom up manner.
           However, for the results attained to be sustained over the long-term, these
           processes will need continued support both at community and local levels.
       o In order to continue to support strengthening local capacities for planning
           and implementation of local development projects, "regional agencies"
           could be charged with providing technical support to both local
           administrations and communities.
       o A project that continues to build on the capacities which are put in place
           should be supported.       This project could be administered by an
           independent operator for a period of five years.




                                         47

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                    48

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Country Assistance Strategy
Project Status Reports/Implementation Status and Results Reports
Supervision Mission and Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoires
Project Implementation Manual
Annual Operating Plans
End of Project reports by component
Film: Les Handicappés à l'heure de l'Insertion, AFDS 2004
Beneficiary Assessment, August 2004
Macro Assessment of Effect on Local Poverty Indices, March 2006
Impact Evaluation, May 2006
Impact Evaluation of IGAs, May 2006
Impact of Microfinance Institutions, June 2006
Impact in Health Sector, June 2006
Evaluation of Community Capacity Building, May 2006
Water and Sanitation Sector Ex-Post Evaluation, August 2005
Environmental Impact Study, May 2004
Infrastructure Cost Analysis, May 2006




                                               49

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Summary of Methodologies of Ex-Post, Impact and Other Overall
Evaluations

Summary of Ex-post, Impact and Other Overall Evaluation Methodologies

Macro Assessment of Effect on Local Poverty Indices: Evaluation d'Impact des
Réalisations du Fonds de Développement Social sur la Réduction de la Pauvreté à
Travers des Axes Stratégiques des Plans Locaux de Développement, B. Ndiaye Dièye.
March 2006.

Methodology: 2000 Ciblage infrastructure and service study done by the National
Statistics Department taken as the baseline (poverty index comprised of access to
improved water source, primary school, health post, market infrastructure ad improved
road). Project investments analyzed by type per CR and compared against each sectoral
index to assess net effect of movement in CR Composite Poverty Index.

Sample: 50% of the 65 local government areas, equivalent to 23 areas (18 CRs and 5
urban communes) randomly selected out of the 5 regions and ten departments benefiting
from investments in Phase I.

Impact Evaluation. Evaluation de l'Impact du Projet Fonds de Développement Social,
DCEG Consultants, May 2006.

Methodology: Quantitative and qualitative approach based on two structured surveys,
one at household level and one at the village/neighborhood level. Some baseline data was
available from the PPAs. Control group localities selected both from witness groups of
nearby villages with no intervention as well as 'programmed' villages where investments
not yet undertaken. In addition to quantitative surveys, focus groups interviews held as
well as informal interviews with local leaders (governmental and civil society).

Sample: Sample frame based on 703 micro-projects. A random sample of 100
villages/neighborhoods were selected from the 5 regions using a criteria of 100 percent
completion of the micro-project, with the exception of Dakar region where 95 percent
completion was accepted given the late start of project operations in that region. Village
questionnaire was administered to 88 villages, and the household survey questionnaire
administered to 1,651 households. Village questionnaire was to be carried out in 16
witness villages and 13 programmed villages, however, in the end the consultants failed
to do this, leaving many of the indicators to rely, for comparative purposes, only on the
PPA-generated baseline data. For 31 villages, technical sectoral experts carried out
technical reviews of the points of service. Overall, survey teams spent 3 days in each
village.

Analysis: The majority of the analysis was univariate, with comparisons to baseline data.
This was less than was expected from the Terms of Reference and revealed weaknesses
in the local consulting firms in terms of being able to effectively carry out more


                                            50

demanding impact evaluations constructing robust control groups.[1]Nonetheless, a great
deal of useful information was obtained on changes in access to and utilization of basic
services, as well as effects of income generation and MFI activities.

Beneficiary Assessment: Enquête          auprès    des  Bénéficiaires, Le Groupement
AGRICONSULTING, August 2004.

Methodology: Three data collection instruments were used: (a) a household survey
questionnaire administered to the head of household, (b) focus group interviews
organized by specific vulnerable group (women, youth) as well as village leaders (c)
follow-up in-depth individual interviews with semi-structured guide, and (d) interviews
of key stakeholders. Interview guides focused on beneficiary perceptions of targeting,
project implementation, transparency, implication and participation of local actors, and
expected impacts.

Sample: 4 of 5 regions (Louga, Kaolack, Fatick and Kolda). Out of 256 rural villages
and 23 urban neighborhoods having carried out at least the participatory poverty
assessment at the time of the survey, 68 villages and 7 neighborhoods selected for the
sample. Second degree sampling was carried out, including, for the household survey, six
households from each village, and for the three focus groups in each locality about ten
participants per group. A total of 450 household surveys were carried out. Eight control
group, non-beneficiary villages were also sampled.

Analysis: A synthesis report as well as detailed thematic reports were produced for each
instrument (household survey, focus group interviews, and key stakeholder interviews).
Univariate and bivariate analysis were applied.

Sectoral/Thematic Evaluations:

Impact Evaluation in Education Sector: Evaluation des Micro-Projets Financés par
l'AFDS dans le Secteur de l'Education et de la Formation. A. Mbaye (CREA),
November 2005.

Methodology: Before and after, with and without analysis of education impacts at local
level carried out to determine indicators of access, internal efficiency, reasons for drop-
out as well as indicators on state of infrastructure and equipment. Utilization of
participatory poverty assessment baseline indicators and administrative data (where
available) for reference situation. Follow-up questionnaires (a school questionnaire and a
community questionnaire) were administered to school directors, parent-teacher
associations, project management committees and training center representatives.

Sample: Sample frame based on completed education micro-projects. Then,
representative sample of type of education micro-projects constructed (classroom, school
cantine, equipment, training center etc.) Out of 65 completed education projects, 25
retained for the sample. Control village selected for each of the 25 surveyed villages.
Control group villages were selected based on closest village (under 7 kilometers) having



                                            51

a comparable school in terms of number of classrooms and type of school (complete
cycle, incomplete cycle) in the same administrative region.

Analysis: Descriptive analysis and means tests on all indicators. Given missing baseline
indicators, full difference-in-difference analysis not feasible on all indicators.

Impact Evaluation of IGAs : Evaluation d'Impact des Sous-Projets Activités
Génératrices de Revenues, J. Kantoussan, May 2006.

Methodology: Quantitative questionnaires to IGA group members on income, production
etc. Focus group and semi-structured interviews of key stakeholders focusing on their
degree of implication in the process, level of organization, access to technical assistance
and credit, etc.

Sample: 44 completed IGAs in 4 regions (Kaolack, Fatick, Louga, Kolda)

Analysis: Largely qualitative with some quantitative on production costs and revenues.

Impact of Microfinance Institutions: Evaluation             de   l'Impact   du    Partenariat
AFDS/SFD sur les Structures Financières Décentralisées (SFD) partenaires de
l'AFDS, D. Sakho (SCAT URBAM), June 2006.

Methodology: To measure the impact of project support on the beneficiary MFIs in terms
of their ability to reach target beneficiaries with relevant financial services,
improvements in the technical and operational aspects of service delivery as well as
financial sustainability of the MFIs, the study assessed a sample of MFIs receiving
support. Data on their portfolio development and financial viability were collected along
with other administrative information. Data on the beneficiaries of MFI support were
collected from the MFIs, including geographic area, gender and vulnerable group (ie.
youth). Key informant interviews were carried out to assess qualitative aspects of service
delivery and program performance. .

Sample: Out of 13 MFIs receiving project support, 10 were able to provide data of
sufficient depth and quality to carry out full portfolio analysis.

Analysis: Analysis of key portfolio variables, sustainability, profitability, level of
activity and membership, and changes in type of services offered.

Impact in Health Sector: Evaluation Ex-Post des Microprojets d'Infrastructures et
d'Equipements de Santé Financés par l'AFDS (deuxième passage), Dr. I. Wone, June
2006.

Methodology: To identify the pertinence, efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of
health infrastructure created by AFDS a quantitative-qualitative ex-post sectoral
evaluation was carried out. Individual surveys on a representative sample of mothers of
children 0 to 60 months (AFDS target group and main beneficiaries of community health



                                             52

services) was complemented by a qualitative assessment that included direct observation
by trained medical specialists of health services, equipment and drugs, focus group
interviews with key informants (health workers, midwives, local government and civil
society representatives) and analysis of technical and architectural documents.

Sample: Out of 93 completed health projects, 40 were visited. Mothers surveyed were
randomly selected with a minimum of 3 within the radius of the community health hut.

Analysis: Quantitative data was analyzed both univariate and bivariate within a 95
percent confidence interval. Qualitative information was analyzed via transcription,
categorization and coding by theme and triangulation.

Impact on Knowledge and Behavior regarding HIV-AIDS: Evaluation des
Connaissances du VIH/SIDA des Populations Bénéficiaires du Projet PFDS,
M. Seck, May 2006.

Methodology: Quantitative survey of randomly sampled beneficiaries in project area
along with focus group interviews. Focus groups organized in each locality based on
groups of 5 to 7 people to assess attitudes, appreciation of HIV-AIDS awareness
activities, as well as to query religious and social issues around HIV-AIDS.

Sample: Stratified by region, for each beneficiary group (OCB), structured, quantitative
survey administered to one man, one women and one youth. Out of six regions and 814
CBOs, 256 CBOs surveyed, 713 individual questionnaires administered.

Analysis: Univariate and bivariate analysis utilized.

Evaluation of Community Capacity Building: Mission d'Evaluation de l'Impact de la
Stratégie Accélérée de Développement des Compétences FGB des Acteurs du
Développement Local Bénéficiaires du Projet Fonds de Développement Social , M. Diop,
May 2006.

Methodology: Pluri-disciplinary team carried out qualitative-quantitative assessment of
competencies acquired by local actors and participants and local stakeholder view of the
capacity building via opinion surveys of (a) community relays, (b) direct beneficiaries of
training, and (c) indirect beneficiaries who were community members. Quantitative
survey of training beneficiaries was complemented with an external evaluation of the
competencies acquired.

Sample: Five regions, priority on zones with high concentration of micro-projects.
Sample frame covered 20 percent of direct beneficiaries of 350 sessions of FGB training
carried out between 2004 and 2005.

Analysis: General overview of composition of training and profile of beneficiaries.
Analysis of competencies attained largely qualitative.




                                              53

Water and Sanitation Sector Ex-Post Evaluation: Rapport Technique d'Evaluation
Ex-Post des Micro Projets d'Infrastructures Hydrauliques et d'Assainissement Financés
par l'AFDS, K. Danfakha and M. Seye in collaboration with the Hydraulic Department of
the Ministry of Water Resources, August 2005

Methodology: Ex-post analysis of water and sanitation investments carried out by sector
engineers under the supervision of the national water office, with a view to assessing
technical design and quality of services, organization of systems, sustainability and
impact.

Sample: Out of 96 microprojects in water and sanitation, 48 villages selected (50% of
sample frame) by reasoned choice taking into consideration criteria of geography, first
second or third round of investments, cost and scale, and types of works (new wells,
rehabilitated wells, hand pumped wells, latrines etc.).

Analysis: Analysis of processes and technical design/quality, surveys of villagers to
assess impact in terms of distance to water source and daily household expenditures on
water, hygiene and maintenance practices, as well as availability of services and quantity
consumed. No baseline data or control group information developed.

Environmental Impact Study : Etude Environnementale dans les Zones d'Intervention
du Projet, P. Dione, May 2004

Methodology:      Documentation          review    of     operational    manual,     technical      and
environmental screening criteria, project cycle, and standard designs. Field work carried
out to assess compliance and to review environmental screening criteria. Focus group
interview and local assemblies organized to discuss environmental aspects.

Sample frame: Field work carried out in 18 villages. Village assemblies and focus group
interviews had between 10 to 30 participants.

Analysis: Technical analysis of documentation and processes. Summary of findings
from focus groups interviews.



[1]One of the few experience research firms ­ CREA ­ was subsequently contracted to look at specific
impacts in the education sector, their area of expertise, and control group villages were identified and
analyzed (see Mbaye 2005)




                                                  54

