Report No. 1162-BD
Appraisal of t:he Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank Bangladesh
May 6, 1976
Agricultural Credit & Development Finance Companies Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is floating with the
Pound Sterling at a rate of Tk 30.0 - iS 1.0
The following rates have been used in this
report, except where otherwise specified:
Prior to May 1, 1975:   Tk  8.0  -  US$1.0
After May 1, 1975:       Tk 13.5  -  US$1.0
MAIN ACRONYMS
ADB     -    Asian Development Bank
BSB     -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS    -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BSIC    -    Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
EPF     -    Equity Participation Fund
EPSIC   -    East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
GOB     -    Government of Bangladesh
ICP     -    Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP    -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
KfW     -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wideraufbau
NIT     -    National Investment Trust
PICIC   -    Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation
TCB     -    Trade Corporation of Bangladesh
FISCAL YEARS
GOB and BSB - July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..***.*........ * * ............. .. ......   i-i
Is   INTRODUCTION ..........*.........*s..*****  ............    1
II.   THE ENVIRONMENT .....................       ...... ......    1
The Industrial Sector  ........ .. O..............settee.    2
Industrial Policies .....        .................. ........    3
Industrial Finance *. ... oo.9o***o.oo*o   .. ...*....       5
III.   BSB's ROLE ..........                .***e*e*....................    7
Volume of Financing .....**.................    7
Characteristics of Financing .........sts..............      7
Quality of BSB's Project Work ...........................    9
Resource Mobilization .........................   ..... .    9
BSB's Future Financing Role ...........................   10
IV.   BSB:  ORGANIZATION ..**.*0*...  ... ..*.            .       11
Board .. . . . . . . . .......                              11
Autonomy ... ...........                               .    11
Policies ................                                   12
IManagement and Staff         ........... *     ........   12
Departmental Organization and Procedures ... ...........   13
V.   BSB:  FINANCIAL POSITION ...*       .........................   15
Loan Portfolio ............   15
Equity Investments .......too.   18
Provisions and Write-Offs .............................   19
Accounts and Audit Report ............................    19
Profitability ...........   ....... ............. ses.  20
Past IDBP Liabilities ...............................   21
Debt Limit  ....      ............s. ............            21
VI.   PROSPECTS ......................... .....         .         21
Investment Climate ........                     .......   21
BSB's Strategy ................................   22
BSBts Forecast Operations .............................   23
Financing Requirements ................................  24
Objectives and Terms of a Proposed IDA Credit .........     26
Projected Financial Results .***,**,* .....**,*,***....   26
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ...................  .. .............,   27
This report was prepared by Messrs. W. Whitesell and N. Sukkar on the basis
of their mission to Bangladesh in March/April 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
List of Annexes
1. BANGLADESH: Production and Capacity Utilization in Selected Industries
2.  BANGLADESH:  Interest Rates as of March 31, 1976
3.  BSB: Summary of Operations
4.  BSB: Sectoral Distribution of Loan Portfolio as of December 31, 1975
5.  BSB: Equity Investments Held as of December 31, 1975
6.  BSB: Resource Position as of December 31, 1975
7.  BSB: Statement of Operating Policies
8.  BSB: Organization Chart as of April 1, 1975
9.  BSB: Age-wise Distribution of Arrears at December 31, 1975
10.  BSB: Non-jute Arrears at December 31, 1974
11.  BSB: Audited Income Statements, FY72-FY75
12.  BSB: Audited Balance Sheets, FY72-FY75
13.  BSB: Past and Projected Financial Ratios
14.  BANGLADESI:  Public Sector Industrial Investments in Plan
15.  BSB:  Strategy Paper
16.  BSB: Pipeline of Projects, March 1975
17.  BSB: Main Assumptions of Projected Operations and Financial
Statements, FY75-FY79
18.  BSB: Forecast of Operations, FY75-FY79
19.  BSB: Projected Income Statements, FY75-FY79
20.  BSB: Projected Balance Sheets, FY75-FY79
21.  BSB: Projected Cash Flow Statements, FY75-FY79
22.  BSB: Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed IDA Credit



BAN}LADESH SHILPA BANK
BASIC DATA
1.      Year of Fetablishment:/  1972
2.      Ownership: Government of Bangladesh - 100%
3.      Bank Group Assistance:
Anount utilized      Liability accepted
Credit to IDBP       Signed       in Bangladesh          by Bangladesh/2
US$ 20.0             2/11/70        US$ 1.3                  US$ 1.5
4.      Operations (in million Taka)
Approvals                                                       FY72        FY73        F4          F5
Local currency loans                                           4.7        16.8        18.9        66.7
Foreign currency loans                                        10.4          -         56.8       201.2
Investments                                                    5.8          .5                       .3
Total                                              20.9         17.3        75.7       268.2
Commitments
Local currency loans                                           5.1         8.1        11.1        24.9
Foreign currency loans                                         1.2          -          4.4        67.5
Investments                                                    1.9         2.3          .1          .3
Total                                               8.2         10.4        15.6        92.7
Di sburs ement s
Local currency loans                                          12.8        13.5        15.2        11.4
Foreign currency loans                                        22.7          -          2.0        23.9
Investments                                                    2.5          .9          .7-
Total                                               38.0        14.4        17.9        35.3
5.             s Record
as % of average total assets:
Gross income                                                   7.9         7.8         8.0        10.5
Financial expermes                                             4.9         4.7         4.6         2.9
Administrative and other expenses                             1.0          0.8         0.9         0.9
Interest income as % of average loan pwrtfolio                 8.5        10.6         9.9        11.2
Cost of tern debt as % of average ters debt                    n.a         6.7         7.6         6.5
Insterest spread                                               n.a         3.9         2.3         4.7
6.      Financial Position
Total term debt and subordinated loan/equity                 112.0        71.6        12.2        12.4
Total term debt/equity and subordinated loan                 112.0        71.6         2.6         3.4
Debt Service Coverage                                          n.a         3.5         3.4         2.7
7.      Resource Available for Commitment (as on Decenber 31,1975)              (Tk  Million)
United Foreign Currency Resources                                         18.5/3
Local Currency Resources                                                  57.8
/1      BSB is the successor ofthe Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) abich was established in 1961.
Z2      Amount includirg exchange adjutsaent. This amount has been conmolidated with otheisunder Consolidated Credit (BD-529)
for $31 million which was signed on February 14, 1975 and became effective on April 7, 1975.
13      Represents loan from KfW which is not yet effective.
April 15, 1976






APPRAISAL OF THE
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
SUMMARY AND CONCLIUSIONS
i.        The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) is the successor to the former
East Pakistan wing of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP).
An IDA Credit of US$20 million was approved for IDBP in 1970. After
Bangladesh became Independent, the Credit was reinstated in 1974 for IDBP-
Pakistan alone. The Government of Bangladesh and BSB have requested a line
of credit for BSB.
ii.       While industry represents only about 8% of GDP in Bangladesh,
manufactured and semi-processed goods (predominantly jute) constitute
roughly two-thirds of the country's export earnings. Although industry
has growth potential, it has yet to recover from the disruptions coinciding
with Independence, and new investment has been sluggish in sectors of high
economic importance. Lack of foreign exchange for imported inputs had
caused low capacity utilization among many import-substituting firms. The
Government has recently taken steps to remove some of the constraints on
industrial development (including the May 1975 devaluation of the Taka).
iii.      BSB and the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS) provide nearly
all the medium- and long-term financing for industry in Bangladesh. BSB
is also involved in financing small-scale industry along with the Bangladesh
Small Industries Corporation (BSIC).
iv.       As a result of war damages, a change of management, labor unrest,
exchange losses, and the new country's shortage of foreign exchange for im-
ported inputs, as well as deficiencies in BSB's own follow up work, over
70% of BSB's loans (by amount) are affected by arrears. However, the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has agreed to compensate BSB for default of
both principal and interest on all BSB jute loans outstanding for both local
and foreign currency at least until the financial position of the individual
jute enterprises has been restored. BSB is in the process of rescheduling
its jute portfolio loans on a case by case basis. Signed rescheduling agree-
ment acceptable to the Association with each jute enterprise with outstand-
ing loans to BSB will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
v.        GOB recently converted Tk 150 million of its subordinated loan to
BSB into capital reserves to enable BSB to maintain a debt/equity ratio with-
in the proposed 5:1 limit. In addition, GOB agreed to provide BSB an addi-
tional Tk 50 million in equity as a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit to provide BSB with a sufficient debt/equity margin during the
disbursement period of the credit.
vi.       BSB's Board recently revised its Policy Statement to include
appropriate commitment limits; its policies are now satisfactory. Within
the framework of the BSB Order, BSB has autonomy regarding its financing
decisions.



- ii -
vii.      BSB urgently needs to fill its vacant post of Director of Opera-
tions, and Chief Accountant which are conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed credit. BSB also needs to recruit additional staff for its
appraisal and follow up work. The timing and effectiveness of BSB's
recruitment should be improved as a result of a recent Government decision
to give more autonomy to BSB in its selection of new staff. BSB has also
agreed to have one expert to assist with economic appraisal of projects
and new project promotions, and a second to help improve accounting and
devise management information and control systems. UNDP will provide the
technical assistance to BSB, with IDA acting as the Executing Agency. The
appointment of the two experts is a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit.
viii.     BSB has demonstrated a capability to perform thorough technical,
financial, and economic project appraisals. Further improvements are pos-
sible, particularly in deepening management and staff understanding of
economic analysis of projects, which BSB began only in 1974. BSB appreciates
the importance of avoiding investment in sectors dependent on imported
inputs where existing capacity is under-utilized. In a paper setting out
its own intermediate term strategy, BSB has established an appropriate set
of sectoral priorities for its future financing.
ix.       BSB now has a backlog of over 150 project applications requiring
finance of nearly Tk 800 million.  It expects to reject projects for nearly
half this amount.  BSB is likely to approve financing of some Tk 550 mil-
lion during FY76 and FY77, of which about IJSS34 million would be in for-
eign exchange.  BSB has fully committed a US812.6 million credit from the
Asian Development Bank, and its only foreign resources are now a US$3 mil-
lion equivalent tied credit from India, and a UTS$1.25 million credit from
KfW. In FY75, it approved two cotton spinning mills for US$10 million
in foreign exchange, but it does not have sufficient funds to commit these
loans. A US$25 million IDA Credit should meet BSB's import financing
requirements through 1977, when ADB is likely to make a second loan.
x.        As a result of the improvement in the quality of BSB's portfolio
on account of the special treatment for jute, strengthening of its capital
structure, increased autonomy in the recruitment and appointment of senior
staff, the expected appointment of senior staff and outside experts, im-
provements in its operating procedures, and the existence of adequate
provisions for bad debts based on an acceptable long-form audit report,
BSB can now be considered creditworthy. Thus, it is recommended that a
US$25 million Credit be approved for BSB.
xi.       The objectives of the Credit include:  (a) assisting industrial
development, with its consequent favorable impact on employment, incomes,
and foreign exchange earnings and savings, (b) helping to restore BSB's
creditworthiness and to strengthen its soundness and effectiveness as a
development bank, and (c) in addition to recent GOB measures helping to
create a more favorable policy climate for industrial investments, particu-
larly for export-oriented industries.



APPRAISAL OF THE
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) was established by Presidential
Order on October 31, 1972 as a successor to the Industrial Development Bank
of Bangladesh and the Equity Participation Fund. Nearly all BSB's staff
and assets were formerly part of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP). IDA approved a US$20 million Credit for IDBP in February 1970, of
which US$1.3 million was disbursed for two projects in Bangladesh prior to
Independence. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has assumed the obligation
to repay IDA for funds disbursed to these projects under the Consolidation
Credit.
1.02      This report appraises BSB for a proposed IDA Credit of US$25 mil-
lion, which GOB has requested. It would be the first IDA Credit to a devel-
opment finance company in Bangladesh. There is one other development bank:
the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha (BSRS), which received a loan of US$15
million from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 1975, and has no immediate
need for additional foreign exchange financing at present.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
2.01      Bangladesh's present economic position is assessed in IDA's
latest economic report: "Bangladesh: Current Economic Performance and
Short-Term Prospects," March 22, 1976 (No. 1038-BD). Bangladesh has some
80 million people, with per capita annual income of about US$95. GDP grew
at an estimated average annual rate of about 3% in the twenty-year period
ending June 30, 1970. Disruptions over Bangladesh's Independence caused
estimated declines of 5% and 14% in GDP in the following two years, but the
economy recovered in 1972/73 and 1973/74 to 84% and 89% respectively of
its 1969/70 1/ output.   Aside from extreme shortages of essential consumer
items like food and clothing, the country's major economic problems include
insufficient foreign exchange earnings to finance much more than food import
requirements, and inadequate Government revenues. Until recently, price
inflation had been extremely rapid, leading to devaluations of the Taka in
January 1972 and May 1975. The Dacca Middle Class Cost-of-Living Index
increased by 76% during 1974. However, recent anti-inflation measures of
the Government appear to have been effective, and prices of some basic
consumer items have in fact fallen in recent months (para. 2.16). GOB ex-
pects prices to have declined by 10% in 1975. As a result of the improvement
in domestic output and a reduction in the rate of inflation. GOB expects
GDP to increase in real terms by about 12% and per capita income by about
9% in 1975/76.
1/   Fiscal years ending June 30.



-2-
The Industrial Sector
2.02      Agriculture dominates Bangladesh's economy and development pros-
pects, accounting for about 55% of GDP and 75% of employment. Industry's
contribution is only some 8% of GDP. A 1968 estimate indicated that manu-
facturing accounted for only about 5.5% of total employment in the then
East Pakistan. However, the growth rate of industrial value-added has been
twice that of the economy as a whole, averaging about 6% per annum during
the 1950s and 1960s. Manufactured goods account for roughly two-thirds of
total export earnings. Industry has an increasingly important contribution
to make to income growth, employment creation, and foreign exchange earnings
and savings. It aids agricultural development through supplying inputs
and processing and marketing outputs; it produces basic consumer goods and
generates needed savings.
2.03      The disruptions of recent years have affected manufacturing
more than the economy as a whole; industrial value-added had only regained
92% of its 1969/70 level by 1973/74. Industrial output actually fell in
1974/75 by 2-3% over its 1973/74 level largely as a result of depressed
external demand for jute manufactures and a severe shortage of foreign ex-
change. Although the export sector has performed better in 1975/76 largely
as a result of the May 1975 devaluation, industrial output in 1975/76 is
expected to show only a small gain of 2-3% over the 1974/75 level due to a
low level of demand in the domestic market.
2.04      Industrial structure.  Data for 1969/70 1/ (the most recent avail-
able) indicate industrial value-added 2/ of Tk 1,400 million, employment of
200,000 3/, and fixed assets of Tk 1,700 million broken down into the follow-
ing subsectors:
Percentages:  1969/70 Data
Value-added Employment Fixed Assets
Jute manufacturing                        33            50           45
Food, beverage, tobacco                   32            15            17
Non-jute textiles, apparel                13            16            14
Chemicals                                 10             7             5
Metals, engineering                        6             6             5
Furniture, paper, printing                 3             3            10
Electrical products                        1             1             1
Leather                                    1             1             1
Non-metalic minerals                       1             1             2
Total                         100           100           100
1/   Census of Manufacturing Industries, covering 1,491 enterprises which
represent 53% of all registered companies with ten or more employees
in the then East Pakistan.
2/   Including indirect taxes.
3/   Employment statistics have changed significantly since 1969/70; at
present total employment in the jute industry alone is about 200,000.



Jute manufacturing dominates the sector, accounting for about one-third of
total industrial value added, and about one-half of employment and fixed
assets in industry. Cotton textiles is the next largest industry followed
by cigarettes (which has since lost its supply of tobacco from West Pakistan),
sugar, paper, and fertilizer production. Non-jute manufactured exports in-
clude newsprint, fish and shrimp, and leather. The larger industries in
nearly every subsector are now GOB-owned and operated (para 2.07).
2.05      Constraints on industrial development.  Bangladesh's major advan-
tage for industrial development is its low cost labor. Domestic resources
useful as industrial inputs are limited; they include natural gas, timber,
fish, and agricultural products (jute, tea, livestock, foodstuffs). Other
constraints include a lack of foreign exchange to finance necessary im-
ported raw materials and spare parts, deficiencies in power supply and
transportation facilities, poor labor relations, cumbersome control proce-
dures for public sector enterprises, and shortages of experienced managerial
and technical staff. In addition, certain GOB policies and procedures
impaired the attractiveness of the investment climate to private investors,
but measures announced in December 1975 are expected to improve this climate
(paras 2.06-2.14).
Industrial Policies
2.06      Role of private sector.  In early 1972, the new Government nation-
alized all Jute, cotton textile, and sugar mills in the country, as well as
several enterprises in other sectors with fixed assets valued over Tk 1.5
million. Many of these enterprises were abandoned by previous Pakistani
owners; others were owned by Bangladesh nationals. Some large enterprises
(e.g., in pharmaceuticals) were permitted to continue as joint ventures
between foreign and domestic private investors.
2.07.     In January 1973, in order to allay fears of further nationalizations
and to stimulate new investment, GOB formulated an Industrial Investment
Policy which limited the private sector to enterprises with fixed assets of
Tk 2.5 million or less, and which declared a ten year moratorium on further
nationalizations of enterprises under that size. In July 1974, GOB revised
its policies to permit private sector investment in enterprises with up to
Tk 30 million of fixed assets, and extended the moratorium on nationaliza-
tions to 15 years. A list of industries reserved for the public sector was
published, including jute, cotton textiles, sugar, paper, heavy engineering,
cement, petrochemicals, and forest extraction. New foreign investment was
permitted in collaboration with private domestic investors 1/. In December
1975, the Government took further measures to stimulate private sector
investment. It raised the private sector fixed assets' ceiling to Tk 100
million and deleted the 15 year moratorium on further nationalization of
enterprises from its industrial policy. It reiterated, however, that if
1/   Previously only minority shareholdings in public sector enterprises
were permitted for foreign investors.



- 4 -
any industry is ever nationalized, compensation will be paid on a fair and
equitable basis. GOB decided in December 1975 to pay compensation for indus-
tries nationalized immediately after Independence which will start in 1975/76
and an Implementation and Payment cell has been established in the Ministry
of Industries to deal with cases for payment of compensation.  The Government
also expanded the scope of private-public sector collaboration in industrial
ventures. Furthermore, about 85 small enterprises currently administered
by public sector corporations are to be disinvested to private entrepreneurs.
These measures will help the private investment climate considerably.
2.08      Investment incentives.  Incentives to new private industries include
a five year tax holiday (provided 50% of profits are reinvested), deferred
payment and partial rebates on custom duties on machinery and repatriation
privileges for foreign investors. For export industries, incentives include
income tax concessions and additional raw material import licenses. The
considerable devaluation in May 1975 was a correction for the previous
disincentive to export inherent in an over-valued Taka.
2.09      Trade policy.  Because of the critical shortage of foreign exchange,
very few manufactured consumer goods are imported (other than foodstuffs and
some textiles). Domestic producers therefore have little competition, and
scarcities of goods result in high prices which permit firms to operate
profitably even with low capacity utilization. The disadvantage of import
controls for industrial enterprises is the difficulty such enterprises have
in obtaining imported raw materials and spare parts. Foreign exchange is
allocated to industry-groups on a six months basis. 1/ A particular enter-
prise must obtain the approval of the Ministry of Commerce, and open a letter
of credit through a designated bank that must finally be approved by the
Central Bank. Often this procedure itself takes up the entire six month
licensing period, and actual imports (when they do arrive) are only a
fraction of requirements. The result is that many industries operate at
less than 50% capacity utilization on a single shift basis (Annex 1). In
connection with IDA's program credits for industry, which have provided
foreign exchange for needed imports of industrial raw materials, GOB
has agreed to study measures which could be taken to liberalize import
licensing procedures. Financial assistance for the study is being provided
under the Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD).
2.10      At the time when most projects now in operation were being imple-
mented, the country had not yet separated from Pakistan, and its extreme
foreign exchange shortage was not foreseeable. Future industrial invest-
ment must be carefully directed so that the problem of shortages of imported
inputs is not exacerbated.
2.11      GOB had centralized importing activities through the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) although many exceptions to this policy
1/   These are "entitlements" which are based on a proportion of require-
ments at full capacity on a single shift.



have since been granted. Import contracts of public sector enterprises
require the approval of higher authorities, however. Managers of public
sector enterprises complain that this is an example of excessive controls
which hamper effective management of enterprises. While proper auditing of
trade contracts is definitely needed, and controls on imports are a necessity,
some decentralization of decision-making in the public sector is under
consideration by GOB.
2.12      Investment approval process.  The process of approving private
sector investments is excessively cumbersome, and includes company regis-
tration, appraisal and approval by a development bank, approval by the
Investment Board, approval by the Controller of Capital Issues, then
issuance of an import license for machinery. In particular, officials
of the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce are involved in
several of the above steps. During negotiations GOB agreed to make a study
of ways of combining or eliminating some of these numerous steps, especially
streamlining procedures for export-oriented projects. IDA will comment on
the terms of reference for the study, and the draft report. GOB will submit
to IDA a draft terms of reference for the study within three months and the
draft report should be completed within nine months of the signing of the
proposed Credit.
2.13      Export processing zone.  With IDA's encouragement, GOB is now
considering establishing export processing zones. Permitting unlimited duty
free imports into such zones for processing and re-export could stimulate
significant new investment, jobs and foreign exchange earnings, and help
reduce the constraint on industrial development posed by limited domestic
resources. Labor intensive industries with high value low bulk products (to
minimize transportation costs), such as textiles or assembly of electronic
components, might be most attracted. During negotiations, GOB agreed to
initiate a feasibility study for an export processing zone within nine
months after signing of the proposed Credit.
2.14      Recent improvements in the policy environment for investment will
help redirect funds to industry and away from less productive but "safer"
sectors of trade and real estate. However, there are sizeable amounts of
"black money" (unreported income, etc) which have been unutilized. To
help channel these funds to productive uses, the Government declared in
December 1975 that those who disclose such funds will be allowed to retain
the same without any questions by Government, provided such funds are used
for new investments or for purchase of disinvested units.
Industrial Finance
2.17      The financial sector is described in detail in "Bangladesh:  Devel-
opment in a Rural Economy" (IDA Report No. 455-BD). There are nine commer-
cial banks (six of which are nationalized), and two specialized industrial
financing institutions (BSB and BSRS). A third specialized institution (BSIC)



- 6 -
extends limited financing to small-scale industries, being mainly concerned
with promotion work and technical assistance. There is also a specialized
institution for agricultural finance (the Krishi Bank).
2.16      Commercial banks normally restrict themselves to short term loans
for working capital. Commercial banks' loans outstanding as on December 31,
1974, were Tk 8.2 billion. Of this, Tk 2.4 billion, or 29%, was in the
manufacturing sector (25% public and 4% private sector enterprises), while
the largest portion was in trade and commerce (44%). In the two year period
between December 1972 and 1974, total commercial bank credit expanded rapidly
(by 80%) mainly to meet GOB budgetary deficits and to offset losses of public
sector enterprises. Credit expansion, however, is believed to have slowed
down considerably as of the beginning of 1975, in response to selective
credit controls introduced between September 1974 and early 1975. These
measures included a prohibition of advances against certain commodities,
a maximum financing of 50% for other commodities, and a reduction of com-
mercial bank borrowings from the Central Bank. Another effective anti-
inflation measure was the demonetization of the 100 taka note in April 1975.
2.17      Like BSB, BSRS came about as a result of a merger of institutions
which already existed at Independence: the East Pakistan wing of the Pakistan
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC), the National Investment
Trust (NIT) and the Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP). BSIC is the
successor of the former East Pakistan Small Industries Corporation (EPSIC).
In its joint programs with commercial banks, BSIC carries out the technical
and economic appraisals and commercial banks carry out the financial appraisal
and extend the loans.
2.18      Medium and long-term industrial loan finance is provided mainly
by specialized institutions, while equity is mainly supplied by GOB, private
sponsors, or firms' own funds. BSB and BSRS provide the bulk of institutional
finance to industry, and each have portfolios of about three-quarters of a
billion Taka. BSIC provides some financing, but in the past it has mainly
arranged financing for its clients from commercial banks and BSB. IDA pro-
vided a US$3 million Credit for commercial bank financing for BSIC-sponsored
projects in FY73. From July 1971 to December 1974, these three institutions
approved only Tk 240 million in new financing, of which BSB accounted for
56%, BSRS 34%, and BSIC 10%. Equity participations were only 10% of total
approvals. The stock exchange has been closed since nationalization of most
medium and large-scale industries in March 1972, and unorganized trading of
stocks is very limited.  Recently the Government announced its intention
to re-activate the stock exchange.
2.19      Interest rates.  In July 1974, general interest rates were in-
creased by about 3% following an increase in the Central Bank rate from
5% to 8%.  The lending rates of commercial banks and specialized institu-
tions are now about 12%, and deposit rates range up to 9% depending on the
term (Annex 2). BSB and the Krishi Bank are allowed to pay one percentage
point more than commercial banks on fixed deposits.



- 7 -
III. BSB'S ROLE
3.01      The BSB Order and BSB's Policy Statement specify that it will
mobilize resources to finance diversified industrial development and will
provide advice to industrial enterprises. A summary of BSB's financing
activities appears as Annex 3.
Volume of Financing
3.02      BSB provides roughly half the medium and long-term debt financing
for industry from institutional sources in Bangladesh. From the establish-
ment of the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan in 1961 through June 30,
1970, that institution approved about Rs 1 billion of financing to over
1,000 projects in what is now Bangladesh. New approvals fell from Rs 134
million in FY70 to Rs 110 million in FY71 due to disturbances coinciding
with the Independence movement. About one-fourth of the approvals in these
two years were later cancelled for the same reason. Lack of foreign exchange
and re-organization difficulties led to low approval volumes of about Taka 20
million in each of the following two fiscal years. BSB then received a US$12.6
million credit from ADB in June 1973, and it approved Tk 76 million of loans
in FY74, followed by Tk 268 million of approvals in FY75. By early 1975,
its commitments had just begun to reflect its return to substantial approval
levels, but disbursement had not yet increased beyond a rate of Tk 35 million
per year.
Characteristics of Financing
3.03      A description of BSB's outstanding loan and equity portfolio at
December 31, 1975 is given in Annexes 4 and 5. About three quarters of BSB's
cumulative financing has been in foreign currency. Much of its lending
prior to FY72 was to enterprises in the private sector, but most have
since been nationalized. About 80% of BSB's outstanding portfolio at
December 31, 1975, was in the public sector.
3.04      BSB invested Tk 13 million in equity through FY72 (net of cancel-
lations), but it has since approved only one equity participation (in FY75),
partly because most of its financing since then has been to public sector
projects in which GOB has provided the equity.
3.05      Size of projects.  The average size of BSB's loans has been about
Tk 920,000. Converting historical figures at prevailing exchange rates, this
amounts to an average loan of about US$180,000 to projects with average total
assets of about US$400,000. In the 20 months ending in March 1975, BSB's
average loan size was higher at US$450,000 equivalent. Excluding four large
public sector textile mills, however, the average was only US$150,000.
3.06      Small-scale industry lending.  Although many of BSB's ordinary
loans have been to small enterprises, it has also financed them in coopera-
tion with BSIC. Under this arrangement BSIC prepared feasibility studies,



- 8 -
took responsibility for providing follow up technical assistance to proj-
ects, and took 75% of the risk of loss. By December 31, 1974 BSB had lent
Tk 17 million under this scheme to 400 projects (3% of its total portfolio
by amount and 54% by number). The division of labor envisaged under this
scheme has not worked out, however, and virtually no follow up has taken
place, with nearly all loans being in arrears. BSB decided to-discontinue
the arrangement in FY73, and now lends to small industries only through its
own operations. BSB should improve its follow-up work on existing small-
scale industry loans (para 5.09). In December 1975 the Government directed
industrial finance institutions particularly BSB to provide equity support
in deserving cases to small industries particularly agro-based, agro-support-
ing and export oriented industries.
3.07      Distribution by industrial subsector.  BSB's portfolio reflects
the concentration of industry in jute and cotton textiles. At-December 31,
1975, 54% of its outstanding loans were in the jute industry and 21% in
non-jute textiles. The balance was more evenly distributed among other
consumer-oriented industries, including food and beverages (6%), paper and
paper products (4%), services, non-metallic minerals and metal products.
BSB's recent approvals and pipeline of projects show a continuing concen-
tration on cotton textiles, but no new investments in the jute industry are
planned. Applications to BSB for new investments in food processing and
engineering industries, among others, indicate that its portfolio is likely
to have a better sectoral distribution in the future.
3.08      Geographic distribution.  About 40% (by amount) of BSB's outstand-
ing loans at December 31, 1974 were in the cities of Dacca, Chittagong, and
Khulna (52% by number of projects). The remainder was concentrated in the
Dacca and Chittagong Divisions 1/ (34% and 16% by amount of the total port-
folio). Only 10% of the portfolio was in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions
(outside Khulna city). This geographical concentration is an industry-wide
phenomenon. BSB's recent approvals will help improve the geographic distri-
bution of its portfolio, since they include several large textile projects
to be located in rural areas.
3.09      Economic performance.  BSB did not begin economic analysis of its
subprojects until 1974. It has since made ex-ante economic rate of return
calculations on several of its past projects (based on data available at
the time of its appraisal reports), and ex-post economic return calculations
for a jute mill and a cotton spinning mill. In every case, these have in-
dicated favorable economic returns. About 54% of BSB's portfolio is in the
jute industry, which accounts for about half of total exports. Due to inex-
perienced management under public sector ownership, as well as inappropriate
GOB pricing policies, many jute enterprises have been unprofitable and inef-
ficient in recent years. A few tanneries and fish processing firms are BSB's
only other export projects at present. The cotton textile industry has
higher capacity utilization than many others, although improvements are
1/   Until recently, Bangladesh was divided into four main administrative
divisions: Dacca, Chittagong, Khulna and Rajshahi.



- 9 -
still possible. Helped by import restrictions, spinning mills have been
quite profitable. BSB recently calculated economic rates of return of over
10% on several spinning mills, based on current operating data. The economic
performance of the balance of BSB's investments are not so clear. Most en-
terprises are in arrears, but many of them appear to be profitable. Despite
their profitability, many producing for the domestic market are likely to be
inefficient users of capital; their prices often far exceed international
prices due to domestic scarcity conditions. In some cases, inefficiencies
are not the result of poor management, but are rather due to drastic changes
in the availability of inputs following Independence.
3.10      Projects approved by BSB in the three years ending June 1974 were
quite labor intensive; they were expected to create 7,500 jobs at an average
cost per job (including working capital) of about US$4,500.
Quality of BSB's Project Work
3.11      BSB has traditionally undertaken a thorough technical and finan-
cial appraisal of the projects it has financed. In 1974, it began cal-
culating economic rates of return on its projects, and net foreign exchange
savings and earnings. In addition to screening out unworthy projects, it
has caused several projects to be redesigned. Its lending conditions have
resulted in changes in installed capacity, price reductions through selec-
tion of alternative suppliers, and strengthening of project management.
Its appraisals have not included adequate analyses of capacity utilization
in existing domestic enterprises, however. BSB will remedy this by under-
taking the necessary subsector studies. Also, its appraisals do not suffi-
ciently examine assumptions critical for the success of projects (para 4.09).
3.12      BSB has not been very effective in assisting projects in operation.
It has not adequately enforced its reporting requirements, and its supervision
visits seldom result in recommendations to improve operations.
3.13      There is also much room for improvement in BSB's promotional work.
Recently, BSB has been aggressive in seeking out new projects, and has pre-
pared feasibility studies in several sectors for prospective project spon-
sors. However, it has not yet helped to develop many new projects in non-
traditional sectors. To do this, it needs more highly-qualified staff.
Although project promotion will be a very important activity for BSB in
the long run, its immediate priority is to reduce the backlog of projects
in its pipeline awaiting appraisal.
Resource Mobilization
3.14      BSB's statement of resources appears as Annex 6.  In addition to
raising foreign and domestic resources for its own financing, BSB normally
requires project sponsors to raise from other sources at least 60% of the
total cost. However, BSB's disbursements do not yet reflect its return
to a normal level of operations; they have amounted to only Tk 85 million
since June 30, 1971.



- 10 -
3.15      Since Independence, BSB has received funds from the following
foreign sources: the Asian Development Bank (US$12.6 million in June 1973,
of which $6.6 million is the re-activation of an earlier line of credit to
IDBP), the Industrial Development Bank of India (US$2.5 million equivalent
in May 1974, tied to procurement in India), and the Government of India
(US$630,000 equivalent in May 1974 for purchase of textile machinery in
India). In addition BSB recently received a loan of DM 3.0 million from
KfW which is not yet effective.
3.16      BSB's domestic resources, in addition to GOB loans and equity
contributions, include deposits from the public and one debenture issue
(in 1974). On June 30, 1975, BSB held about Tk 14 million of current deposit
accounts, Tk 6 million of savings deposits, and Tk 106 million of term depo-
sits. Interest on savings accounts and term deposits varies from 4.25% to
9.25% per annum depending on the term. Its total deposits have increased by
about 50% in the year ending June 30, 1975. While BSB cannot offer facilities
as convenient as those of commercial banks, it has been able to attract
deposits by paying a slightly higher interest rate.
3.17      BSB's debenture issue totalled Tk 40 million and was for 20 years
at 6.5% interest, 1/ guaranteed by GOB. The issue was subscribed in full
by commercial banks, who were entitled to count it as part of their reserve
requirements, due to the GOB guarantee. At the new rates of interest commer-
cial banks are willing to buy additional BSB debentures, and insurance com-
panies have also expressed interest (although they would now require a 9%-10%
interest rate). As yet, BSB has not required additional domestic resources,
because of its low level of operations (until recently), and because it has
not yet had to make payments on previous borrowings by IDBP.
BSB's Future Financing Role
3.18      GOB has decided against an alternative previously suggested by
IDA, to merge BSB and BSRS. Instead, it prefers that these institutions
compete. Given recent improvements in the investment climate, there may
well be enough investment activity to justify having two development banks,
and competition could provide incentives to improve their operations. Until
recently, there were reports that Government may preclude BSB from certain
types of financing but IDA has since been officially informed by Government
that BSB will continue in its present role whereby it may finance private
and public sector projects without any externally-imposed restrictions which
was confirmed by GOB during negotiations.
1/   Tha Bank rate at the time was 5%.



- 11 -
IV. BSB: ORGANIZATION
Board
4.01      BSB is wholly owned by GOB.  Early in 1975, its first Board of
Directors was established, and as of January 1, 1976 consisted of two re-
presentatives from the Ministry of Industry (whose functions are primarily
policy-oriented), one from the Ministry of Finance, BSB's Managing Director
(who is Chairman of the Board), and one private sector representative.
Another seat for the private sector is vacant. This is a small Board, which
should be strengthened by filling the existing vacancy, and adding at least
two more Directors, who should be individuals with experience in implementing
industrial projects, BSB's charter, which was amended for other reasons 1/,
was also amended in April 1976 for this purpose. Government has indicated
that it is actively considering adding two more directors to BSB's Board,
another representative from the Ministrv of Industries and a professional
banker.
Autonomy
4.02      On project decisions.  Although BSB has not yet rejected a public
sector project outright, it has caused changes to be made in the design of
such projects as conditions of its lending. Government had felt that a
Government guarantee should be sufficient to ensure BSB's approval of any
doubtful project. However, this type of arrangement would be liable to
abuse, would undermine BSB's autonomy and frustrate the positive role it
can play in resource allocation. Any doubtful public sector project should
be either revised to conform to BSB's appraisal standards, rejected, or
financed directly by GOB (through its Annual Development Program). In a
recent correspondence Government indicated that it has no intention to
require BSB to finance unsound projects and therefore the question of
extending a guarantee would not arise. This was confirmed by GOB though BSB
may agree to administer government loans in return for an administration fee,
with no credit risk by BSB.
4.03      On staffing.  Until recently BSB, like all other public sector
companies obtained approval from GOB of its general staffing plans, on
individuals to be recruited, on promotions, and on purchases (furniture,
cars). BSB's senior staff salaries are soon expected to be cut to bring
them in line with the low and inflexible salary structures applicable to
civil servants. Also, a Public Service Commission selected BSB staff. BSB's
Managing Director sat on the Selection Board of the Public Service Commission,
but had no veto powers. This system caused recruitment delays and prevented
selection of suitable staff by those most able to judge their potential
1/   Inter alia, to permit extension of the maturity of its sub-loans
beyond 20 years, where necessary.



- 12 -
performance. In some cases BSB has been compelled to accept new staff whom
it did not deem up to standard. These recruitment procedures could seriously
retard BSB's long-term development. During negotiations, measures to increase
BSB's autonomy in staff selection were outlined by GOB. GOB stated that the
recruitment of lower grade BSB staff had now been exempted from the requirement
of going through the Public Service Commission. A special Selection Board
including the BSB Managing Director would be responsible for recruitment/
appointment of BSB staff for higher grades (other than the Managing
Director, General Manager, and Deputy General Managers) which would be
subject to approval of the BSB Board. The recruitment/appointment of the
Managing Director, General Manager and Deputy General Manager would be made
by GOB, with the appointment of the Deputy General Manager being made upon
the recommendation of the BSB Board.
Policies
4.04      According to its Policy Statement (Annex 7), which was approved by
its Board on April 25, 1975, BSB may engage in term loan and equity financing,
underwriting, guarantees, and short-term lending to enterprises to whom it
has extended medium or long-term financing. BSB only finances projects which
its appraisals indicate to be technically, financially, and economically
justified. It attempts to diversify its portfolio geographically and by
industrial sector. Its Policy Statement prohibits it from taking exchange
risks and establishes a guideline maximum debt/equity ratio of 5:1. BSB
would not normally commit to a single enterprise amounts exceeding 15% of
its net worth. It would not take up more than 20% of the shares of an
enterprise, except by conversion of its loans, but even then it would not
hold more than 49% of a company's shares. BSB's aggregate equity investments
would not exceed its own total net worth.
Management and Staff
4.05      BSB's previous Managing Director, Mr. Nurul Matin, was appointed
Deputy Governor of the Central Bank in January 1975, and BSB's Board has
confirmed Mr. A. Kamaluddin, previously General Manager, as the new Chair-
man and Managing Director.   BSB has also lost its Director of Operations,
Mr. Fazle Husain. BSB has recruited a capable and experienced individual
to fill the post of General Manager. The new General Manager is looking
after the work of the Director of Operations, until this post is filled.
BSB has also recently acquired the services of a senior economist (to work
as an economic advisorY on a deputation basis from the Planning Commission.
In addition to a new Director of Operations, other staff are also urgently
needed, including a Chief Accountant, additional financial analysts and
economists to work on the backlog of projects in BSB's iipeline, together
with additional staff for follow up work. BSB would appoint a Director of
Operations and a Chief Accountant of suitable quality and experience as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.



- 13 -
4.06      Technical assistance.  Under the ADB credit to BSB, ADB supplied
two consultants to help improve appraisals, engineering work, and the organi-
zation of operating departments, as well as to establish an internal
training program. Their assignments were completed bv late 1975. BSB also
asked for technical assistance from IDA to help establish a management
information and control system, improve accounting, and strengthen economic
appraisals of projects. One expert to strengthen economic appraisals and
assist in initiating new project promotions, and a second to improve
accounting and information systems appear sufficient at this time (paras.
3.09-3.13, 4.08). During negotiations, agreement was reached with BSB
and GOB on the recruitment of such advisors for an 18 month period with
the appointment as a condition of effectiveness of the Credit. UNDP has
agreed to finance the cost of such advisors with IDA acting as the Executing
Agency. The foreign exchange cost of the two experts on an annual basis
would be US$121,000.
Departmental Organization and Procedures
4.07      BSB's organization chart is presented in Annex 8.  BSB has fifteen
departments grouped under three senior officers: a Director of Operations,
a General Manager, and a Financial Advisor. In addition, BSB has six branch
offices outside Dacca that are primarily engaged in collecting deposits, but
in some cases also assist central office staff with follow up and (more
rarely) appraisal activities.
4.08      The most serious organizational deficiency at present is the lack
of a management information and control system. There is no systematic way
for management to hold departments accountable for their activities. All
those involved in project processing should produce regular reports to senior
management, which should review them in regular meetings. BSB will obtain
technical assistance to help it devise and implement a management information
and control system (para 4.06).
4.09      Appraisals.  Until recently, responsibility for appraisal was
divided among the Loan and Equity, Engineering, and Economic Departments.
In 1974, BSB transferred several engineers and economists to the Loan and
Equity Department and gave that department full responsibility for apprais-
als, which are now made by teams comprising an economist, an engineer, and
a financial analyst. This change has improved coordination of the various
aspects of appraisals. In general, BSB's appraisals are thorough and well-
prepared. However, appraisal reports still appear to be too routinely
prepared; they could be improved through preparation of a summary evalua-
tion, including a discussion of assumptions critical for project success.
A more integrated view of projects might result if BSB trained some of its
appraisal staff to undertake both financial and economic aspects of
appraisals.



- 14 -
4.10      Follow-up.  BSB's Engineering Denartment is responsible for follow
tip on projects under construction, and makes regular visits to project sites.
The Loan Administration Department assists with disbursements and has full
responsibility for projects in operation. Follow ulp on operating projects
is inadequate. Visits are infrequent (many projects have not been visited
for more than two years), few progress reports and financial statements are
received from clients, and corrective action is seldom recommended. While
the poor quality of BSB's portfolio has largely been the result of factors
beyond its control (para 5.01), inadequate follow up work has also contri-
buted to this situation.
4.11      The Loan Administration Department is divided into seven sections,
five of which carry out routine desk work, one is for statistics, and only
one (consisting of seven senior and two junior staff) is responsible for
on-site inspections. In the nine months between July 1974 and March 1975,
the latter section prepared 40 routine inspection reports and three in-
depth evaluations based on such visits. However, this is only a fraction
of the 700 projects in BSB's portfolio, of which most loans are in arrears.
4.12      To improve the effectiveness of its follow up work, BSB intends
to:
(i) increase the staff working on follow-up;
(ii)  visit each project at least once a year and more frequently
when loans are in arrears;
(iii)  intensify efforts to obtain regular information from
clients as required in its loan agreements;
(iv)  prepare shorter reports on project visits, that should
include specific recommendations for action by BSB and
clients;
(v) establish an internal reporting and review procedure for
management to check whether satisfactory action is being
taken on problem projects; and
(vi)  consider re-organizing the Loan Administration Department
so that most of its sections undertake follow up visits
to project sites.
4.13      Procurement procedures.  BSB requires its project sponsors to
secure competitive bids on machinery items and large construction contracts.
In some cases, it seeks out quotations on its own to check those submitted
by clients, and there have been cases where its efforts have resulted in sig-
nificant reductions in project costs. Under the IDA Credit, BSB would be
required to submit with each of its subproject applications a description



- 15 -
of the competitive quotations for equipment and contracts for construction
which were considered by project sponsors, together with reasons for the
choice of the particular supplier or contractor. BSB would also be required
to judge the appropriateness of the technology for each project, given the
low social cost of labor-intensive production processes.
4.14      Disbursement procedures.  BSB's disbursement procedures are also
generally satisfactory. Imports are normally financed through letters of
credit, while payment for domestic equipment is usually made directly to
suppliers. BSB's engineers normally inspect projects regularly to ensure
satisfactory performance under construction contracts.
4.15      Legal.  BSB employs an independent lawyer on a retainer basis to
review its loan contracts. At IDA's suggestion, BSB recently reviewed its
legal documentation requirements and found several ways it could speed up
processing of legal papers and eliminate some of the unnecessary steps. BSB's
efforts to obtain legal remedies have not been very effective, as court
suits initiated as early as 1965 have not been resolved. To improve this
situation, BSB recently hired additional lawyers. BSB should also insti-
tute a regular formal review procedure for the work done by its lawyers.
V. BSB: FINANCIAL POSITION
Loan Portfolio
5.01      As with Bangladesh industry in general, BSB-financed projects
suffered damages and severe disruptions immediately prior to Independence.
Many projects were abandoned by their Pakistani owners, and others had
changes in management due to nationalization. Inefficiencies were bound
to result under new and inexperienced management. Labor unrest was con-
siderable during 1972 and 1973. In addition, Bangladesh's severe shortage
of foreign exchange made the import of raw materials and spares difficult,
while the 1972 devaluation raised the cost of imports and the debt service
burden of BSB's clients, thereby adding to their difficulties. While most
firms experienced genuine difficulties, others took advantage of the gen-
eral situation and discontinued servicing their debts. Largely as a result
of these factors, which were beyond BSB's control and not foreseeable at
appraisal, over 70% of BSB's portfolio (by amount) is affected by arrears of
three months or more. By comparison, about one-fourth of IDBP's (BSB's
predecessor) portfolio in then East Pakistan on December 31, 1970 was
affected by arrears. However, BSB is itself partly to blame because of
inadequate collection and follow up work (para 4.10).



- 16 -
5.02      More than half of BSB's loans (55% of the total loan portfolio)
have been in arrears for two years or more (Annex 9). A sectoral breakdown
of BSB's loan portfolio is given in Annex 4. About 54% of BSB's loan port-
folio is in the jute sector, 26% in other public sector companies (mostly
textiles) and 20% is in private sector companies. Each of these categories
of loans require a different approach to their arrears problems.
5.03      Jute industry.  At the end of December 1970, only 6% of IDBP's
loans to the jute industry were affected by arrears. At that time, the
industry was predominantly under private ownership. At June 30, 1975, all
BSB's jute loans were in arrears, since the jute industry as a whole had
become unprofitable. In addition to war damage, inefficiency of new public
sector management, exchange losses, and shortage of foreign exchange, the
jute industry also suffered from increasing raw jute prices at a time when
demand and prices for jute goods were declining in foreign markets. This
situation was exacerbated by the over-valuation of the Taka, and led to
massive losses for the jute industry from FY73 through FY75. As a result,
about half the jute manufacturers became insolvent.
5.04      Recognizing the financial crisis faced by the industry, in 1973
GOB required commercial banks to accept 20 year debentures issued by jute
enterprises, bearing interest at 4.5% per annum, to replace a portion of
their short term loans to the industry. At the same time, GOB ordered a
moratorium on payment by the jute sector on their long term loans (most of
which were owed to BSB and BSRS) and decided in principle that they would
be rescheduled through issue of additional jute industry debentures, redeem-
able over 20 years (including a 5 year moratorium as of 1973). GOB also
granted a Tk 75 million subsidy to the jute industry in FY74.
5.05      In March 1975, an IDA sector mission undertook an evaluation of
the jute and cotton textile industries in connection with the Fourth Program
Credit. During negotiations for the Program Credit, GOB agreed to implement
an action program to improve the industry's efficiency, competitiveness,
and financial position. The action program will include preparation by
June 30, 1976 of five-year forecasts and a strategy for restoring an adequate
debt/equity and debt servicing position for the industry.
5.06     In September 1975, the Government decided to reduce the intended
rescheduling of the jute mill loans from 20 to 15 years, requested the jute
mills to pay their accumulated interest arrears and decided that the rate
of interest in respect of the foreign currency loans would remain the same
as stipulated in the original loan agreements between BSB and the jute mills.
These rates are in the range of 7-8% p.a., while the Government had earlier
intended to reschedule the loans at 4.5% p.a. It was also decided that a
joint exercise would be undertaken by the BJIC and the financial institutions,
including BSB, to determine which mills should be entitled to the 5-year
moratorium. These measures constituted some progress towards a satisfactory
rescheduling of the jute mill loans, but further progress was considered
necessary. Terms of rescheduling, satisfactory to IDA, should be agreed be-
tween BSB and its subborrowers as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit. The terms should include the following provisions:-



- 17 -
(i) no subsidization of the industry through lower interest
rates;
(ii) GOB agreement not to call for payment by BSB on foreign
currency borrowings used to finance the jute industry
except in accordance with the new maturity schedules
of its loans to the jute industry; and
(iii) shorter rescheduling periods for any mills that can meet them.
5.07      The profitability and financial position of the industry now depend
almost entirely on GOB policies and management. Further, the security BSB
held on these loans (mortgages on private property) is no longer effective,
since GOB owns these mills. In addition, the compulsory rescheduling had
ended arms length relationships between BSB and jute enterprises. In view
of the above, and due to the importance of the jute industry for BSB's
creditworthiness IDA considered it essential that special arrangements be
made to protect BSB from its existing jute sector loans made prior to
December 16, 1971, at least for the time being, in order to improve its
overall creditworthiness. As a result, it was agreed during negotiations
with GOB that in the event that a default (either principal or interest)
occurred on a BSB foreign currency loan to a jute enterprise in any
financial year, GOB would reduce the amount of the next scheduled
repayments by BSB to GOB in the financial year subsequent to such default
until the sum of such reductions equalled the amount of such default. In
the case of local currency defaults (either principal or interest) on BSB
jute loans, it was agreed that GOB would, in the year following the default,
provide BSB with an interest-free loan equal to the amount of such default,
convertible to a grant or a contribution to BSB's equity if BSB were unable
to collect such outstanding debt from the defaulting enterprise within
two ;.aars after the default has occurred. These arrangements, however,
would cease to apply to any outstanding debt from an enterprise either if
BSB makes a new loan to such an enterprise or where BSB and GOB provide
satisfactory evidence to IDA that an enterprise has become financially
sound and is expected to be able to service its debt obligation. To
determine such financial soundness, IDA would not review individual jute
enterprises more than once a year, and then only in connection with IDA's
annual review of the jute industry's action program. The above arrangements
would largely absolve BSB from the credit risks on its jute portfolio
though since as a result of the delayed timing of GOB compensation to BSB
for defaults, there would be some incentive for RSB to continue its collection
efforts to improve its liquidity position.
5.08      Other public sector projects.  The prospects are good for clearing
arrears on loans to cotton textile projects (21% of the portfolio), which
have been quite profitable recently. By March 1975, BSB had met the Textile
Industry Corporation and established new repayment targets for BSB loans to
textile enterprises. It subsequently met with other public sector corpora-
tions (which account for 6% of BSB's portfolio), and agreed with them on
satisfactory target dates for collections or reschedulings. These targets
are indicated in BSB's strategy paper (para 6.04).



- 18 -
5.09      Private sector loans.  BSB's private sector projects include about
400 small scale industry loans totaling Tk 16 million made through an arrange-
ment with BSIC (para 3.06) and about 200 other loans aggregating Tk 130 mil-
lion (also for rather small industries). While many of these projects are
experiencing serious difficulties, there are many willful defaulters as well.
BSBts collection efforts have not been effective, and in many cases it is
unaware of the status of the project. As is indicated by the number of
projects not in operation or not paying within the last two years (Annex 10),
corrective action on many of these problem projects should have been taken
long ago (para 4.15). To help remedy these deficiencies, BSB needs more
staff to work on follow up, and its management should institute a regular
reporting procedure to ensure that effective and timely action is taken on
problem projects. Recently, on the recommendation of IDA, BSB visited its
private sector clients who did not make any payments during calendar 1973
and 1974 and agreed with them on satisfactory collection targets of resched-
uling arrangements. 1/ These are indicated in the strategy paper (para 6.04).
No targets have been set for the small-scale industry loans mentioned above,
as transferring BSB's liability on these loans to BSIC is being negotiated
with the Government and BSIC. As of February 1976, BSB had collected Tk 38.9
million (out of a target of Tk 42.4 million for FY 76 for both public and
private sector projects excluding jute), or 91.7% of target. In addition,
about 41% of rescheduling had been achieved.
Equity Investments
5.10      As of December 31, 1975, BSB had equity investments of Tk 12.7 mil-
lion (valued at acquisition cost) in 40 companies (Annex 5). Of this, about
Tk 8 million was disbursed prior to Independence by the Equity Participation
Fund 2/. Included in the above are four equity investments totaling Tk 4.9
million that were nationalized in March 1972. No compensation has yet been
paid to BSB or other shareholders, and the value of these investments is thus
unclear. The value of other investments is also uncertain, since there has
been virtually no public trading of stocks from 1971 on, and also because BSB
has not obtained regular financial statements from clients. Of eleven com-
panies which submitted financial statements in FY73 and/or FY74, four were
1/   In general, BSB has been lenient about rescheduling loans (and has often
waived its 2% penalty interest rate on arrears). This is appropriate
given the extra-ordinary nature of the difficulties which have beset
its clients. However, after the current round of reschedulings, it
should again become very strict about such matters, and should enforce
and perhaps even raise its penalty interest rate.
2/   The Equity Participation Fund (EPF) was set up in 1970 (and adminis-
tered by IDBP) to contribute to the share capital of small and medium
size enterprises in East Pakistan and in the less developed areas of
West Pakistan. The EPF's East Pakistan operations and BSB were merged
in October 1972.



- 19 -
insolvent, only three reported profits, and only one paid a dividend. BSB
is now taking a cautious approach to new equity investments that is appro-
priate given its recent experience and its own difficult financlal position.
Provisions
5.11      The long-form audit report (para 5.12) prepared on BSB's FY75
accounts indicates that on the basis of a case by case review of BSB's port-
folio, Tk 178.9 million in provisions for principal and overdue interest
were required. However, this included Tk 134.9 million representing pro-
visions for jute enterprises. Since the preparation of the audit, special
arrangements (para 5.07) have been made for the jute portfolio which have
the effect of largely absolving BSB from the credit risk for the time being.
Thus it is estimated that BSB required Tk 44 million in provisions of princi-
pal and overdue interest for non-jute loans at the end of FY75 whlle actual
provisions amounted to Tk 70.9 million. At the same time, the auditors also
recommended that BSB make equity provisions of Tk 3.8 million which is more
than covered by the excess provision.
Accounts and Audit Reports
5.12      BSB's accounts are audited by two independent chartered accountants
selected by the Ministry of Finance from a short list of accountants recom-
mended by BSB. The Bank Group reviewed BSB's audit report for FY73, and
found it unsatisfactory. Both auditing firms were then replaced, and the
new firms, Kashem & Co. and Islam & Co. issued their audit report on BSB's
FY74 accounts without qualification. However, the auditors informally
pointed out to BSB's management a number of problems, the most serious of
which was insufficient information to determine the adequacy of provisions.
This should have been a qualification of the official audit report. The
auditors also prepared a draft long-form audit report according to the
specifications of the Bank Group's, "Illustrative Form of Audit Report
for DFC's," but this was also unsatisfactory. However, for the FY75
accounts, BSB's auditors produced a long-form audit which was found accept-
able to IDA. However, there are three main difficulties with BSB's accounts.
First, uncertainty regarding BSB's responsibility for liabilities previously
incurred by IDBP, but this cannot be fully resolved until the governments
of Bangladesh and Pakistan agree on the matter (para 5.17). Secondly, BSB
does not obtain sufficient information from its clients (para 4.10). Finally,
BSB's accounting procedures and methods are deficient in many respects.
Solving these problems will take time, and BSB is hampered by a shortage
of qualified accounting staff. It is now recruiting individuals with the
necessary qualifications. Technical assistance could be useful to help im-
prove accounting procedures and rationalize the division of work among the
several departments that have accounting responsibilities (para 4.06).



- 20 -
Profitability
5.13      BSB's financial statements from FY72 through FY75 are shown in
Annexes 11 and 12. Financial ratios are shown in Annex 13. BSB has shown
modest profits in the past three yeats. Its net income increased from
Tk 2.6 million in FY72 to Tk 7.3 million in FY74, and Tk 13.8 million
in FY75 which was about 6% of equity plus subordinated loans. This increase
in profits has not been due to an expansion in its volume of business. but
rather an increase in interest charges (including penalties) on amounts
overdue. Because BSB had not made adequate provisions against interest
receivable and against its portfolio, its net income had been seriously
overstated, and its tax liability has been excessive. If it had made
adequate provisions, profits in recent years would have been eliminated,
and BSB would not have been able to pay the Tk 2.5 million of dividends
declared on FY73 and FY74 results.
5.14      BSB enjoys an average spread on borrowed funds of over 4%.  Interest
charges include imputed interest on past IDBP liabilities not yet recognized
by GOB. Administrative expenses are less than 1% of average total assets.
In part, this reflects inflated asset values due to inadequate provisions,
and a high proportion (33%) of liquid assets which are not costly to admin-
ister. It also reflects that BSB does not have sufficient professional staff
for its appraisal and follow up work, although it probably has an excess of
support staff.
5.15      During FY73 and FY74 combined, BSB's collections of interest and
loan principal amounted to only 23% of the total overdue at the beginning
of the period plus that falling due during the period. However, BSB has
not itself had to make any loan repayments or interest payments on past
IDBP borrowings. Also, its disbursements have been quite low. For these
reasons, liquidity has increased to a more than satisfactory level (para
6.13).
Past IDBP Liabilities
5.16      At Independence, BSB informally assigned to itself the liabilities
of IDBP that corresponded to assets in Bangladesh. It also indicated as
part of its liabilities IDBP shares held by Bengalis, and half of past Gov-
ernment equity contributions to IDBP. However, this assignment was made by
BSB itself, and has not yet been recognized by GOB. In FY74 GOB converted
the domestic portion of these liabilities into Tk 49 million of equity and
Tk 167 million in an interest free loan, subordinated to equity (with no
fixed maturity). However, in December 1974 GOB required BSB to recognize
an additional domestic liability of Tk 47 million. BSB was permitted to
recognize an asset of an equal amount in the form of Government bonds. 1/
BSB had previously treated these assets as realizable from Pakistan, but
GOB has recently accepted liability for them.
1/   These bonds were previously issued by the Government of Pakistan to IDBP.



- 21 -
5.17      At June 30, 1975, BSB's balance sheets showed as a liability
Tk 588 million of IDBP's past foreign currency borrowings, responsibility
for which is still the subject of negotiation between the governments of
Bangladesh and Pakistan. BSB has not been servicing these debts, but it
has set aside from income imputed interest charges on them. During nego-
tiations, GOB agreed to provide BSB with off-setting equity funds in case
any past liabilities of IDBP are assigned to it in excess of the amounts
BSB has already set aside for these contingencies in its balance sheet.
Debt Limit
5.18      An appropriate limit on term debt to be incurred by BSB would be
five times its equity. Since subordinated loans would not be permitted to
be included in equity, this would be a conservative limit and appropriate,
given the condition of BSB's portfolio, and in any event BSB's own Policy
Statement limits it to this level of debt. At June 30, 1975, BSB's ratio of
debt to equity plus subordinated loan was only 3.4:1. However, BSB would
need additional equity to remain within this limit during the disbursement
period of the IDA Credit. During negotiations GOB agreed to provide BSB
sufficient equity to enable BSB to stay within a 5:1 debt/equity limit.
Thus, GOB converted the Tk 150 million in subordinated loan into BSB capital
reserves. Further, as a condition of effectiveness, GOB agreed to provide
an additional Tk 50 million in equity to BSB.
VI. PROSPECTS
Investment Climate
6.01      Private sector.  The liberalization of GOB industrial policies in
July 1974 (para 2.07), and recent improvements in industrial labor relations
have had a favorable impact on the climate for private sector investment.
However, the response has not been as encouraging as might have been ex-
pected; most new private sector projects have been small investments
(US$400,000 and below) in traditional sectors (e.g.; specialized textiles,
printing and packaging, soap production). The further liberalization of
policies in December 1975 is expected to give a boost to private investment
activity in the next few years. Actual private sector investment is now
likely to be closer to the Tk 280 milion per year average estimated for the
FY74-FY78 Plan.
6.02      Public sector.  A list of public sector industrial investments
included in the FY74-FY78 Plan is given in Annex 14. The larger projects
on this list (petrochemicals, fertilizer, an iron and steel complex, cement)
would be beyond BSB's normal commitment limit (about Tk 35 million at present).
Public sector investments are also likely to fall considerably behind Plan
estimates due to delays in project preparation and insufficient financing.



- 22 -
In addition, many of the new projects producing for the domestic market may
not prove to be economically justified during the Plan period, due to insuffi-
cient effective demand or lack of foreign exchange for imported inputs. In
general, the Plan does not give adequate importance to the need to develop
export industries, and the emphasis given to new projects rather than bal-
ancing and modernization seems inappropriate. Investments planned for the
largest export earner - the jute industry - do not appear justified because
of limitations in the international jute goods market.
6.03      The May 1975 devaluation of the Taka will of course be a stimulus
for export industries (fish processing, tanneries, paper and wood products,
and perhaps sugar). The devaluation will significantly raise the costs of
industries producing for the domestic market from imported inputs (non-jute
textiles, iron and steel, some chemicals). The effect of increased ex-
factory prices on demand is uncertain. Prima facie only a small decrease
in quantities demanded might be expected, since present free market prices
reflect scarcity conditions and far exceed production costs.
BSB's Strategy
6.04      BSB has formulated a strategy (approved by its Board on January 14,
1976) indicating its institutional objectives and priorities in the medium
term future (Annex 15). This gives first priority to its own follow up work
on projects already in operation. This is appropriate considering the capacity
utilization problems of existing industry, and BSB's own need to increase
collections to regain financial health and soundness.
6.05      Aside from the provision of technical advice, BSB also intends
to assist its long-term borrowers by increasing its capacity to provide them
with short-term loans for working capital.
6.06      BSB's Strategy Paper includes its first attempt to establish
priority sectors for its own future financing activities. Its priorities
are consistent with those of GOB. In evaluating the project applications
in its pipeline, BSB has developed a further definition of investment
priorities beyond that provided in GOB investment schedules. In general,
BSB will give priority to export industries and industries based on domestic
raw materials. Balancing, modernization, and replacement of existing plants
will be given priority over new investments. BSB will avoid financing proj-
ects in sectors where there is significant under-utilization of existing
capacity, a condition caused primarily by the lack of foreign-exchange for
imported inputs. BSB will be guided by the above priorities in processing
projects in its pipeline and in promoting new projects. However, before
deciding to finance any project, BSB will continue to undertake a full
appraisal of its particular technical, financial, and economic prospects.
6.07      BSB now has a large backlog of projects in its pipeline, and its
limited staff must be assigned to processing these projects. However, when
new recruitment alleviates BSB's staff constraints, it intends to increase



- 23 -
its role in promoting new projects. Although BSIC is also responsible for
promoting new projects in the private sector, there is ample scope for BSB
as well. Promotional activities by BSB could be especially useful if they
helped interest potential project sponsors in non-traditional activities of
high economic priority, particularly export industries.
BSB's Forecast Operations
6.08      The recent improvements in the private sector investment climate,
and the availability of foreign exchange to finance the first public sector
industrial projects under the Five Year Plan, led to an increase in BSB's
loan approvals from Tk 17 million in FY73 to Tk 76 million in FY74, and
Tk 268 million in FY75. In addition, by March 1975 BSB had over 150 project
applications pending and anticipated, requiring financing of nearly Tk 800
million 1/ (Annex 16). BSB has since eliminated projects in non-priority
sectors, including many project proposals based on imported raw materials
for which existing domestic capacity is underutilized. About Tk 530 mil-
lion 1/ of prospective financing appears in its Strategy Paper. Of the
remaining projects, about 49% are chemicals and 41% cotton textile projects
in the public sector, the balance being mainly private sector projects in
specialized textiles, food processing, engineering, packaging and printing,
and other sectors. A substantial proportion of these projects would produce
for the domestic market and would require imported raw materials. Although
many may be quite worthwhile, the relative dearth among them of new export
projects and domestic raw material based import substitution projects indi-
cates a need for promotional activities to concentrate in these priority
areas.
6.09      The IDA sector mission to study the cotton textile industry,
undertaken in connection with Fourth Imports Program Credit during March
1975 found that the economic justification for capacity expansion in
the cotton textile sector requires careful scrutiny. The argument in favor
of expansion in the cotton spinning sector is based primarily on the present
low level of per capita cloth consumption in Bangladesh and the fact that
considerable under-utilized handloom capacity exists due in large part to
the scarcity of yarn. However, as cotton spinning is now highly import-
dependent and the foreign exchange shortage in Bangladesh is most acute,
the amount of spinning capacity that can be used satisfactorily is con-
strained by the limited availability of foreign exchange earnings, unless
that capacity is used for export. Although the cotton spinning sector has
higher capacity utilization than many other industries in Bangladesh, there
is still considerable room for improvement through increasing the productivity
of existing spindles and the rehabilitation of currently idle spindles.
1/   Taka value adjusted to reflect effect of May 1975 devaluation.  Excludes
large potential investments in the Karnaphuli Paper and Rayon Mills,
which would exceed BSB's normal lending limits.



- 24 -
The action program recommended in the sector survey and accepted by the
Government, includes measures to increase utilization of existing capacity.
Several project proposals for local production of man-made fiber have sur-
faced recently and should be pursued vigorously, since they could reduce or
eliminate the foreign exchange constraint on increasing capacity for
domestic consumption of textiles. New cotton spinning plants should there-
fore be constructed in a way to permit easy conversion to blends with man-
made fibers. As regards the cotton weaving sector, low priority should be
given to capacity expansion in this sector until production in the handloom
sector comes close to full capacity. BSB should take these factors into
consideration as part of its economic analysis of new cotton textile
projects.
6.10      During negotiations, IDA discussed with BSB the expected composition
of projects to be financed under the IDA credit. The following understandings
were reached with BSB in this regard:
(a) BSB would attempt to limit the percentage of financing
required out of the Credit for new cotton spinning
mills producing for the domestic market to no more
than 40 percent of the Credit;
(b) to reflect a concern regarding foreign exchange constraints
which cause underutilization of capacity in other industrial
branches, the Credit should not be used for investments
designed for expansion in import-substitution sectors
substantially dependent on imported raw materials where
utilization of existing capacity is less than 70% based
on two shift capacity at peak periods;
(c) the above limits should be applied flexibly; they are
not intended to exclude projects which are technically,
financially and economically justified; and
(d) low priority should be given to capacity expansion
in cotton weaving until production in the handloom
sector comes close to full capacity.
6.11      BSB's projected operations and financial statements through FY79
appear in Annexes 18 through 21, and their assumptions are given in Annex
17. BSB is likely to approve a total (net of cancellations) of about Tk 272
million in FY76, and 10% annual increases thereafter. About 75% of BSB's
approvals are expected to be for import financing.
Financing Requirements
6.12      Foreign currency.  BSB's resource statements at December 31, 1975
appear as Annex 6. By March 15, 1975, BSB had fully committed its US$12.6
million loan from ADB, and had approved about US$10 million equivalent in new



- 25 -
foreign exchange loans (primarily for two large cotton spinning mills).
Commitment of these projects will be delayed due to lack of foreign exchange.
Including the above US$10 million, BSB is likely to require a total of about
US$44 million to cover its foreign currency financing requirements through FY77.
Against this it now has only US$3 million equivalent in tied credits from
India, and DM 3 million (US$1.25 million) from KFW 1/. ADB is willing to
consider another loan to BSB of perhaps US$15 million once an IDA Credit is
fully committed. ADB would like to alternate with IDA in providing funds
to BSB every other year, which would mean BSB would undergo the discipline
of an appraisal every year. IDA and ADB are coordinating their approaches
to BSB. Therefore, IDA funds should be provided for BSB's financing require-
ments only through 1977. For this, US$25 million would appear appropriate.
The above approach assumes a second IDA Credit would become effective 18
months after the first. This is shorter than the normal two-year interval,
but is appropriate since IDA will be better able to keep a closer check on
remaining issues with a shorter interval between appraisals.
6.13      Domestic currency.  BSB's domestic currency financing require-
ments are subject to several uncertainties, including: (a) the volume of
domestic currency commitments; (b) the realization of BSB's collection
targets; (c) the recognition of past IDBP liabilities and their new repay-
ment schedules; and (d) BSB's own profit forecasts. The estimate of these
cash flow items is as follows (for FY76-FY78):
Domestic Resource Position
FY76       FY77        FY78
---     Tk Million------
Loan collections                           26          23           25
Increase in fixed deposits                 17          23           30
Internal cash generation                   39          43           53
Share capital increase                                 50
New commitments                           (60)        (68)         (74)
Loan repayments                           (34)
Loan repayments on IDBP
borrowings                              (29)        (46)         (44)
Resources available for
commitment:
Opening balance                         210         169          194
During period                           (41)         25          (10)
Closing balance                         169         194          184
The above figures include an assumption that BSB's jute industry loans and
the past IDBP liabilities corresponding to them do not fall due during the
next three years. Other IDBP borrowings are expected to be rescheduled over
ten years with payments beginning at the end of 1975. If BSB is reasonably
successful in meeting its collection objectives, and if other assumptions
are as above, it is unlikely that BSB would require additional domestic
currency financing.
1/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -
Objectives and Terms of a Proposed IDA Credit
6.14      It is proposed that a US$25 million IDA Credit be extended to GOB
for on-lending to BSB. The objectives of the Credit would include: (i)
assisting the development of industry, with a consequent favorable impact
on employment, incomes, and foreign exchange earnings and savings; (ii)
helping to create a more favorable policy climate for investment in export-
oriented projects; and (iii) helping to restore BSB's creditworthiness and
to strengthen its soundness and effectiveness as a development finance insti-
tution.
6.15      Relending rates and exchange risk.  As a consequence of the July
1974 increase in general interest rates of about 3%, banks now normally
charge a 12% interest rate on loans. Up through 1974, the rate of inflation
was much higher than interest rates (a 76% cost of living increase for middle
income consumers in Dacca was indicated for the year ended December 31, 1974).
Future price increases are very difficult to predict, however, and in fact
GOB's recent anti-inflation measures appear to have resulted in price
declines for some basic consumer goods in recent months. The IDA funds
should be relent by BSB at 12%, which would provide substantial positive
real rates. Subborrowers should also take the exchange risk, which would
increase their cost of funds in case inflation in Bangladesh exceeds world-
wide inflation rates (assuming regular adjustments in the exchange rate).
IDA funds should be relent by GOB to BSB at 9%, which would provide BSB
with a satisfactory spread of 3%.
6.16      Free limit.  The free limit should be set at US$150,000 and the
aggregate free limit at US$6 million. These limits would allow IDA to
review about one fourth by number of the sub-projects to be financed by
BSB covering at least 76% by amount of the total Credit.
6.17      Disbursements.  Disbursements under the Credit should be provided
for 100% of the CIF cost of direct imports, 70% of the invoice price of goods
previously imported, and 25% of construction costs that would represent the
import financing component of such costs. A schedule of estimated disburs-
ements for the Credit appears as Annex 22.
6.18      BSB's debt/equity limit in the Credit should be 5:1, and no subor-
dinated debt included in equity. This is a conservative limit, which is
appropriate given the condition of BSB's portfolio. Other terms and conditions
would be those generally applied to recent IDA Credits to development finance
companies. The amortization of the Credit should be the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of subprojects, with a maximum maturity of 15 years
from the date of subproject approval by IDA.
Projected Financial Results -/
6.19      The projections assume provisions of 50% on equity investments, 10%
on total overdue interest, 100% on new penalty interest and 6% on the loan
1/   The projections have not been adjusted to reflect actual FY75 results.



- 27 -
portfolio. BSB may have to decrease salaries of some officers to bring them
in line with those of other public sector agencies. Despite this, BSB's
administrative costs are expected to increase by 20% in FY76 and 10% there-
after, due to new recruitment and general salary increases. BSB's average
cost of borrowings are expected to increase from 5% in FY75 to 8% in FY78,
but this should be nearly offset by an increase in average interest earnings
on loans from 10% to 12% over the same period. As a result, net profit as
a percent of total assets should remain roughly constant at about 1.1%
(Annex 13).  Increasing leverage would permit a slight increase in profits
as a percent of average equity (from 6.8% in FY76 to 7.5% in FY79).
6.20      As a result of the conversation of Tk 150 million of GOB subor-
dinated debt into capital reserves (para 5.18) and the proposed Tk 50 mil-
lion increase in equity by GOB. BSB's debt/equity ratio would then not
exceed a 5:1 limit by FY79. BSB's debt service coverage is subject to
considerable uncertainty because the amount and revised repayment schedules
for past IDBP borrowings has not yet been clarified. Assuming these
borrowings would be repaid over 10 years commencing at the end of 1976
(excluding borrowings to finance the jute industry), then debt service
coverage would exceed 1.2 throughout the projection period. Since maturities
of BSB's borrowings roughly match maturities of subloans, its debt service
coverage should remain favorable if its collection performance and profits
are reasonably satisfactory.
VII. RFCOMMENDATIONS
7.01      On the basis of agreements reached with GOB and BSB above, it
is recommended that an IDA Credit of US$25 million be approved for BSB. The
following are recommended as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit:-
(a) that BSB has appointed a Director of Operations and a Chief
Accountant, both of suitable quality and experience
(para 4.05);
(b) that BSB has appointed an exDert in economic appraisal and project
promotion, and an expert in accounting and information systems,
each with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactorv to the Association (para 4.06);
(c) that BSB has signed rescheduling agreements acceptable to the
Association with each jute processing enterprise having
outstanding debt ot BSB (para 5.06); and
(d) that GOB has provided Tk 50 million in additional equity to BSB
(para 5.18).






BANGLADESH SHILPA 3ANK
Banglade-h:  Production tnd Capacity Uttli-ica in Selected Industrie-
Production Chaan6  (i)     Production                       8 Capaclty Jttliation1
Industry                        Unit                                    ProductionJl-e br17                                                             Actual/Target     1969/70      1972/73      1973/74     1974/75      1974/75     1975T76
1969/70     1972/73     1973/74      1974/75     1974/75      1975/76       Over          O                                                                   July-De
July-De-                             July-Dec     July-Dec         July_Dec        -----------Ac- uala----------------(Actual),   (Erti.tur       (T-9get)
------------- Atu Ls--a-----n t                               (T--------------- (Estipte|Target:  1969  1973  1974
1.      Jute Tectilea                                              560         446         500          239         483          600        -14.6       - 7.0              49              74           56          69           66          67           H3
He-aina                        (000 toc)             228          155         172           76         160         221         -33.3       -15.5              58             n.m.        na.           72           63          67           92
Sacking                        (000 toe)             279          210         227         116          230         272         -12.8       - 1.7              67            na.          na.           69          70           70           83
C-rpet Backiag                 (0oo ton)              33           54          66           29          6o          66          75.8       -11.6              73             u.s.        n.            57          50           52           58
Othera                         (200 ton)              20           27          35           17          33          4i          70.0       - 1.7              -             n.0.         a.a.         100           97          94           94
2.      Cotton Tetile
Cloth                       (Pillion Yards)           60           59          79           42          88         110          41./7        9.6              89              49          49           77          71           74           93
Yarn                          (Million lie)          106           81          91           48          83         110         - 3.3         4.2              93              79          6o           59           72          62           82
3.      Paper end Board
Neweprint                      (2oO ton)              36           28          26           14          28          35         -35.4        14.7              79              69          54           53          56           56           98
Paper                         (0OU ton)               31           21          24           12          23          45         -29.8       - 6.9              80            102           69           49          50           48          94
4       Fe,tilize-
Urea                           (000 ton)              95          ?26         279           34          67         260         - 6.5       -74.0              21              91          62           62          15           15           58
TSP                            (000 ton)              -            -           -             6.3        20          70            -          -                19               -           -            -            3          13          46
Amon.iu  Sulphate              (goo ton)               4.7          6          10.3          1.7         3.5        10         308 0       -73.0              35              39          50           96          28           29           83
5.      Cement                              (000 to)                53          32          58           58         160          300        188.9       188 9              45              53          23           35           30          40           57
6.      Steel Iagont                        (cOO too)               74          68          74           37          75          150         33.7        23.1              82              22          27           29           30          30           6o
7.      Petrleum Prco-cte                   (000 ton)              853         776         323          326         993        1200         -23.6       101.9              66              57          52           22           43          66           80
8.      Matches                       (Milli.a geosE boee.)         12.9         5.9         5.0          2.3         4.8          2.0      -64.4       - 8.o              49              86          28           31           30          30           11
9.      Tee                                (Million lbe)            67          53          61           49          72           72        n.e.         n.e.              n.e.            n.a.         a.          n.a.         na.         0.0          0.0.
10.     psoisear                            (OOOdoz )             655          681         44o          131-/       263/         300/       -56.o       -31.08/            598             n.n.        na.          n.a.        228/         225/         438/
11.    Food and Allied Products
Edible Oil and Vegetable Ghie  (000 ton)              11           10          19           6           13          55         - 9.1       -36.8              43              31          07           P6          i6           17          73
FiBh vescees.ig                (100 lbs)            2502         1115        3100         1886        3800        5000          50.8        21.7             134              36          16           24          29           30           39
Soft Beverage               (oOO Bottles)            622         3960        684o        2441         4848         n.a.        684.9       -28.6              45             22           20           79          57           56          a.a.
Cigare-teE                     (billion)              17.8         12.0        12.9          5.0       n.a.        n.a.        -43.8       -22.5              n.a.           n.e.         n.a.         23          18           n.a.        n.a.
12.    sugar                                (000 ton)               93          19          88           38         132          132         41.9        32.9             100              55          11           52           59          83           83
13.     Engineering acd Shipping
Diesel nEgins                    (No.)              1284         1353        1720        4052         4200        5000         533.1       426.9             156              43          45           57           n.a.       129           83
Pamps                            (N..)                -           900        1865        4541         6400        800U          -          189.1             116             n.a.         n.a.         n.0.         s.c         n.b.         n.a.
Heavy Vehicle-                   (N..)               455         1228        2068          635        1200        2000         128.4       -38.6              71              n.a.        n.e.         69          42           42           67
(Car, bu, truck)
G.I. Sheet and Steel Pipes       (Ton)              5134         2800        3661          377         800        2500         -85.5       -79.4              27              n.a.        n.a.         58           12          12           25
8/ public  ster only
Source:  Planning Con=ision; NMtiomeli.ed IndoetrieiSi Dision and Sector Cnrpor-tione, Boreau  of Statistics
Extracted fre:-  "Beegladeeh: The C-rrent  nemonmic Sitoatics  and Short-Tera Outlook,"
Report NM. 710a-BD dated May 21, 1975



ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Bangladesh:  Interest Rates as of March 31, 1976
Percent
Per Annum
Bank Rate                                                                       8
Lending Rates by Commercial Banks
Loan and advances except for those indicated below                      12-13
Loans and advances against Jute goods and Tea                           10.25
Lending Rates by S>ecialize Lendinq Institutions
BSB
Domestic currency loans                                              12-~
Foreign currency loans:
For Sub-projects under IDBI and ADB credits                        9
For Sub-projects under Indian Textile Machinery
credit                                                             9
For Sub-projects under KfW loan                                   12
Penal interest on overdue amount                                      2
BSRS
Domestic currency loans                                              129/
Foreign currency loans
For Sub-projects under IDBI credit                                 9
For Sub-projects under ADB credit                              12.50
Penal interest on overdue amount                                      2
Saving and Fixed (Term)  Deposit Rates
Commercial Banks
Saving accounts                                                     - 6
Accounts of 3 months and over but less than 1 year               6-6.50
Accounts of 1 year and over but less than 3 years             7.25-8.25
Accounts of 3 years and over                                       9.25
BSB and BKB
Saving accounts                                                    4- 6
Accountsof 3 months and over but less than 1 year                7-7.50
Accounts of 1 year and over but less than 2 years             8.25-9.25
Accounts of 3 years and over                                      10.25
~~j7E  .above Bank Rate, subject to a minimum of 12% p.a.
April 15, 1976



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Summary of Operations
(Amounts in TK million)
APPROVALS                                  FY62-FY69      FY70    FY71    FY72    FY73    FY74       F75
Foreign currency loans                         674a/        88      79       10       -       57      201
Local currency loans                           202a/       143      12        5      17       19       67
Equity investments                            n.a.           3      19        6       _       _        -
Total Amount                              876a/       134     110       21      17       76      268
Number of loans                         l,OlOa/      10       86      158      24       31       89
COMMITMENTS
Foreign currency loans                        n.a.          82      55        1        -       4       68
Local currency loans                                        17       9        5       8       11       25
Equity investments                                           -      10        2       2        -         -
Total                                                  99      74        8      10       15       93
DISBURSEMENTS
Foreign currency loans                        n.a.          28      26       23       -        2       24
Local currency loans                                        17     101       13      14       15        11
Equity investments                                           -       9        3        1       1        _
Total                                                  45     136       39      15       18       35
a/ Projects of the Industrial Development Banik of Pakistan located hit Binlad.eh.
April 15, 1976



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Sectoral Distribution of Loans OutstandinL  as of December 31, 1975
(Aaountu in Million Taka)
Private Sector          Public Sector                   Total
No. of                 No. of                 No. of
Industrial Sector        Projects   Amount       Projects   Amount      Projects    %      Amount   %
Food & Allied Products             53        h2.q          16        16.3         69     9.6       c8.8   6.2
Jute & Allied Fibre Products        3         1.6          39       514.3         42     5.8.    515.9  54.3
Cotton, Wollen & Synthetic
Textile                           7         9.2          25       187.3         32     4.4      196.5   20.7
Paper, Paper Products & Print-     23        23.7           9        17.7         32     4.4       41.4    4.4
Tannery & its products              6         5.0                 -                6     0.8        5.0    0.5
Non-Metallic Mineral Products      16        29.5           1          0.8        17      2.4      30.3    3.2
Forest & Wood Products               2        0.9           2          0.4         4      o.6       1.3    0.1
Rubber & Rubber Products             -         -            2          3.1         2      0.3       3.1    0.3
Basic Metal Products                3         4.5            2         4.0         5      0.7       8.5    0.9
Metal Products                      10        3.1            5         2.0        15      2.1       5.1    0.5
Electrical Machinery & Goods        6         3.5           2          0.8         8      1.1       4.3    0.5
Machinery & Spare Parts              2        0.2                      o.6         3      0.4       0.8    0.1
Transport Equiiments                 1        0.2            -          -          1      0.1       0.2      -
Chemicals                          11         6.5           1          0.2        12      1.7       6.7    0.7
Petro-Chemicals                      -         -            1          1.6         1      0.1       1.6    0.2
Service Industries                  72       39.8           7          7.1        79    11.0       46.9    4.9
Mining, Mineral Oil & Gas                        -          -                 -         -        -       -
Miscellaneous                        1        o.6            2         0.8          3     0.4       1.4    0.1
Small Industries                   383       20.4            7         2.2       390    54.1       22.6    2.4
Total              599       191.2         122        759.2       721    100%      950.4   100%
i incDluding y:uiiCurrency
April 15, 1976



ANNEX5
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Sector-Wise Position of EquitgCort-folio As on 31st December, 1975-
(Amount in Million Taka)
Name of Project                Owned      shares       Amount       Dividend
held        Invested
COTTON TEXTILE:
Raj Textile Mills Ltd.          50.00      100,000        1.000
Rupali Nylon Ltd.               41.66       50,000        0.500
Tamijuddin Textile Mills        44.44       80,000        0.800
Goalundo Textile Mills
Limited                          50.00     100,000        1.000
Habibur Rahnan Textile
Mills Limited                   44.44       80,000        0.800
N.H. Textile Mills Ltd.          40.00      80,000        0.800
Kazi Textile Mills Ltd.          28.57      40,ooo        0.400
Pioneer Rope Mfg. Ltd .          40.00       2,000        0.200
Associated Textile
Corporation Ltd.                 42.13       1,500        0.150
Yusuf Textile Mills Ltd.         47.50      47,500        0.475
Terry Textile Mills Ltd.        44.89        2,150        0.215
H.M. Sadique Silk Mills
Limited                         35.37        1,100        0.110
ENGINEERING/STEEL:
Allied Automobiles Ltd.         39.02          800        0.080
Pak Arabian Engg. Co. Ltd.      35.61        1,250        0.125         0.002
Sigma Engineering Works Ltd.    41.66        1,000        0.100
Al-haj Ahmed Ali Steel
(Re-Rolling) Mills Ltd.         28.00       70,000        0.700
ELECTRICAL:
General Electrical
Industries Limited              42.22          760        0.076
National Electric Co.Ltd.        45.00       4,500        0.450
PAPER/PRINTING:
Eastern Straw Board & Paper
Mills Ltd.                       5.75        1,000        0.100
LEATHER & RUBBER:
Eastern Progressive Shoe
Industries Limited              30.42        4,000        0.400
Dacca Trading Company           18.98          900        0.090



ANNEX 5
Page 2
X       No. of
Name of Project                 Owned      shares       Amount
_________   _____________________  held        Invested     Dividend
FOOD & ALLIED:
Chandpur Tobacco Co. Ltd          38.46       6,ooo        o.600
Rahmania Vanaspati Products
Limited                           16.00       2,500        0.200
Kushtia Ice & Cold Storage
Ltd.                              19.61       1,000        0.100
Pioneer Cold Storage and
Ice Plant Ltd.                    45.45       2,000        0.200        0.010
Megnum Enterprise Ltd.            20.60       1,500        0.150
Savar Cold Storage Ltd.           44.30       1,750        0.175
Eastern Cold Storage Ltd.         33.33       2,500        0.250
Moderr. Industries Limited        37.50       6,ooo        o.60c        0.036
T.S. Enterprise Limited           33.71       3,000        0.030
Kohinoor Rice Mills Limited       47.44       2,500        0.250        0.025
Eggs & Hens Limited               28.30       2,250        0.225
Kedarpur Tea Estate Limited       77.78      17,500        0.350
Palash Ind. Enterprise, Ltd.      34.88       7,500        0.075
lTIsco Limited                    45.45         500        0.050
Diana Oil Mills (Pvt.) Ltd.       42.85         300        0.300
Azad Biscuit & Bread              48.00         600        o.o60
Factory Limited
Sarker Food Industries Ltd.       31.91         750        0.075
N.B. Enterprise Ltd.              47.61       3,000        0.030
MINERAL OIL & GAS:
Bricklinkers (Pvt.) Ltd.          40.00       7,000        0.700
12.721
17i/:F Insvral cases, BSB holds over 49% of the shares of a company.
This is due to the fact that BSB took over the shareholdings of the
Equity Participation Fund.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Resource Position as on December 31, 1975
(in million Taka)
A.   Foreign Currency Resources a                                December 31, 1975
1. Untied Resouces
ADB Credits b/                                                 187.1
Less:  Loans outstanding                                      175.7
Total ADB resources available
for disbursement                                        11.4
Less: Committed but undisbursed
resources                                               11.4
Total untied resources available
for commitment Q/                                       Nil
2. Tied Resources
Credit from the Industrial Development Bank
of India (IDBI)g/                                               33.0
Indian Textile Machinery Credit e/                              8.3
Sub-total        41.3
Less:  Loans outstanding                                         5.2
Resources available for disbursement                    38.1f/
Less:  Committed but undisbursed resources                       9.7
Resources available for commitment                      Nil
a/  1 US$ =        Tk 14.85
b/ ADB credits were signed in June 1973. The proceeds are to be lent
to BSB at 6 7/8% p.a. in one case with 18 years repayment (including
3 years of grace) and at 6 1/2% p.a. in the second case with 15 years
repayment (including 3 years of grace).
c/ A loan of Tk 18.5 million equivalent was signed with KfW on December 30,
1975 but is not yet effective.
d/  Extended in May 1974 at 5% p.a. and 15 years repayment (including 3 years
of grace).
e/ Extended in May 1974 as part of a larger credit to the Government. The
proceeds are on-lent to BSB at 9% p.a. and relent at 13% p.a.
f/  Includes an amount equivalent to Taka 26.4 million under IDBI Credit of
Taka 33.0 million which is not now available for disbursement as the
last date for utilization of the Credit had expired on 7.12.1975.
Request made through the Govt. of Bangladesh to the IDBI for utilization
of reritiA, sIpt,o 31.'.'1076 is still under active consideration by the
Govt. of India.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 2
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Resource Position as on December 31, 1975
(in million TakaF
B.   Local Currency Resources                                      December 31, 1975
Equity                                                            73.35
Government-Subordinated Loan                                     166.5
Fixed Deposits (3 years and above)                                96.87
Interim Profit (unappropriated)                                   25.76
362.46
Borrowings
Central Bank                                                       8.50
BSIC a/                                                            3.94
Debentures                                b/                      40.00
Taka equivalent of IDBP contracted loans-
not recognized by Government                                    670.62
Unrecognized local currency liabilities                            95.83
Total Borrowings                                                 818.89
Total Domestic Currency Resources                               1181.37
Less:  Local currency loans outstanding                          696.13
Taka equivalent of Pre-Independence
Borrowings                                                323.25
Equity investments                                         12.72
Government bonds                                           63.66
Net fixed assets                                            2.21
1097.97
Total Domestic Resources Available for Disbursement               83.40
Less: Committed but undisbursed domestic
resources                                                  25.75
Domestic Resources Available for Commitment                       57.75
a/~Bangladesh Small Industry Corporation. Loans (Tk. 5.0 million)
made to BSB at 4% payable over 30 years, to finance small scale
industries by BSB. Repayment is being withheld and related to
recover of sub-loans against it.
b/   BSB has not acknowledged liability for these foreign obligations
which were assumed by IDBP prior to December 1971. As maturities
fall due on these borrowings, BSB transfers the amount due from
one account to another, but no actual payments have been made
since December 1971.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Statement of Operating Policies
Approved by BSB Board on April 25, 1975
Objectives of BSB
1.        In terms of the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) Order, 1972
(President's Order No. 129 of 1972), enforced from the 31st October, 1972,
the main objective of the BSB is to provide credit facilities and equity
support to industrial concerns in Bangladesh. In other words, the BSB will -
(i) mobilize resources within and outside the country for
investment in industry; and
(ii) stimulate industrial development through financing and
advising industries regarding the establishment of new
projects and the balancing, modernization, replacement
and expansion of the existing projects.
These objectives are carried out through the operating policies discussed
hereinafter.
Long-term Loans
2.        Long term loans in foreign currency and/or local currency are
given for setting up of new industrial projects and/or for balancing,
modernization, replacement and expansion of the existing industrial enter-
prises in public and private sectors.
Working Capital Loans
3.        The BSB also provides limited short-term borrowing facilities to
meet the working capital needs of the industries which have received long-
term loans, guarantees, equity-support and/or bridge finance. It also
extends temporary loan facilities to its clients who maintain fixed deposit
accounts with the BSB. To the extent that the BSB can mobilize commodity
loans, it will provide short-term loans in foreign exchange for the import
of raw materials and spare parts required by its clients who have received
long-term financial assistance from the BSB.
Bridge-financing
4.        Short-term advances against shares underwritten are made to enable
a company to go into commercial production before floating the shares for
public subscription or release of fund against ADP (Annual Development Plan)
allocations by the Government in respect of public sector projects.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Guarantee for Credits/Loans
5.        The BSB provides guarantee for credits/loans raised by industrial
projects from other sources.
Equity-support
6.        Equity-support is extended only to limited-liability companies
for financing the industrial projects by way of -
(i) outright purchase of shares; and
(ii) under-writing the issue of shares.
Public Fund Administration
7.        Funds allocated by the Government for public sector projects can
be channelized through the BSB on payment to the BSB of commission at the
agreed rate by such projects.
Private and Public Sectors
8.        Both public sector and private sector projects are eligible for
the BSB's assistance. In the private sector, financial assistance will be
extended only to those industries for which monetary provisions are generally
indicated in the Investment Schedules published by the Government from time
to time.
Project Appraisal
9.        The BSB will finance only those projects which it has determined
through its own appraisals to be technically sound, financially viable and
economically justified provided also the managerial ability and credit
worthiness of the sponsors of such projects are satisfactory in the opinion
of the BSB.
Terms and Conditions
10.       The standard terms and conditions for extending financial assist-
ance are applicable to all borrowers. But the main core of the terms and
conditions of the BSB's financial assistance varies from case to case
depending upon the nature of assistance and the status of the borrower.
Special conditions are stipulated as and when the circumstances so warrant.
Security for Loan
11.       The BSB will obtain adequate security coverage to protect its
exposure in any loan. Loans are usually secured by mortgage/hypothecation
of the existing assets of the projects and/or the assets to be created with
the BSB's financial assistance.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Repayment Schedule
12.       Repayment of loans and guarantees is usually made according to an
agreed repayment schedule or in accordance with the amortization schedule
of the foreign credit line under which the subloan is accommodated. It may
ordinarily extend up to a maximum period of twenty years which may be further
extended by the Board of Directors on the merits of each case.
Lending Rates
13.       The lending rates of foreign currency and local currency loans are
determined so as to allow the BSB an adequate spread to cover its operating
expenses and creation of adequate reserves and to be in line with other
lending rates in the country.
Lending and Investment Limits
14.       The BSB determines the debt-equity ratio of projects it finances
having regard to the project's earning and cash generation power. It
undertakes additional risks in respect of projects in the under-developed
areas where entrepreneurs are shy and industry investable capital is meagre.
The BSB will see that the sponsors' own contribution to the project cost
is sufficient for their adequate stake therein and to induce their whole-
hearted participation in the projects.
15.       The BSB would not ordinarily take up more than twenty percent of
shares representing the paid-up capital of an industrial company except in
cases where it may be worthwhile to convert a part of the BSB's loan into
equity (depending on the operational results of the company) provided that
the BSB's overall equity investment in any industrial company would not
exceed fortynine percent of the company's paid-up capital. The BSB will
seek to encourage widespread ownership of shares in industrial companies,
and to this end, it will sell its own equity holdings whenever possible and
appropriate.
16.       The BSB's commitments by way of loans and/or equity-support in
any industrial company should not exceed fifteen percent of the BSB's own
net worth except in cases where attractiveness of projects and lack of other
sources of funds justify the BSB's higher level of investments provided that
special measures are taken to protect the BSB from the magnitude of the
risks involved.
17.       The BSB's aggregate investments by way of equity support to
industrial companies should not exceed at any particular point of time the
BSB's own net worth.
Portfolio Diversification
18.       The BSB will seek to diversify its portfolio among industrial
sectors and strive to have a wide spread geographical distribution of its
projects.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Financial Policies
19.       As a development financing institution, the BSB will always have
in its investment portfolio projects involving risks. The BSB seeks to
maintain its capital structure on the basis of 5:1 debt-equity ratio. The
BSB will make adequate and separate provision to cover itself for likely
losses on the principal and interest amount of its loans and also for
likely losses on its equity portfolio. The BSB will refrain from taking
any exchange risk on foreign currency borrowings.
Promotional Policies
20.       Identification of projects and entrepreneurs, including potential
foreign investors interested in making investments in Bangladesh, is an
integral part of the BSB's activity directed towards promotion of industrial
investment both in the public and the private sectors. The entrepreneurs
are given free technical advice in respect of plant and machinery, product
and process, availability of inputs and other related matters to enable
them to select a project. The BSB also prepares model project reports for
the small entrepreneurs who are otherwise unable to seek professional counsel
from other sources.
Follow-up Activities
21.       In order to protect its own investment and to provide assistance
to its clients, the BSB will maintain close liaison with the project-manage-
ments through periodic inspection of projects under construction and in
operation. The project managements are required to keep the BSB informed
of the state of affairs of the projects/companies through periodic progress
reports and annual audited financial statements.
Relation with the Government
22.       While the BSB is wholly owned by the Government, its charter allows
autonomy to the Board of Directors to organize, operate, manage and conduct
its affairs on commercial consideration within the broad policy-framework
of the Government. The BSB's Board of Directors also has independence as
per its charter to extend or withhold financial assistance to any project
within the meaning of the Government's industrial investment policy and
Five-Year/Annual Development Plans and Investment Schedules.
Co-operation with other Institutions
23.       The BSB is keen to maintain close relationship with national and
international institutions engaged in various development activities. It is
willing to participate in joint ventures with other development institutions
provided such projects meet its investment criteria. The BSB also wants
to collaborate with other institutions in respect of economic research,
technical assistance and project appraisal.



BA.VGLADESH SEIILPA BANK
Organization Chart at April 4, 1975
Board of Directors
Chairman_andUManaging_Director
Mr. A.H.M. Kamaluddin
Director of Operations                      General Manager                          Financial_Advisor
vacant
_  Loan and Equity                         Board                                 Foreign Exchange|
De artms 15 b/|                          Department, O                         Departrnent, 4
[Engineering                           __FEstablishment                           Central Accounting
~~t Departrrzent  -7 |                     Department 2                           Department, 21
Ec no-r ~ -o m iGc I|eneral Banking                                               Loan Accounting
8  Department, 6 |                     m  Department. 10                          Department, 18
Loan Administration                        Training      lStatistics
~partment, 36           l                 Department  1                        1 -Department, 61
Le al iDe artment  7                           FPublic Relations                    _uit & Method|
Department. 4                        Ieament, 
6 Branches, 26|
a/
b/ Staff numbers indicated above are as of June 30, 1974.
Includes only number of professional staff.                              Professionals       208
Non-Professionals  392
April 15, 1976                                                                     Total Staff  600



ANNE 9
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Age-wise Distribution of Arrears
at December 31,_1974 and 1975
December 31. 19714
Outstanding
Principal                   Arrears
Age of Arrears             Amount       ,%      Principal      Interest      Total
Up to 3 months                 13.13      2.0         0.32          0.55         0.87
Between 3 and 6 months         10.99       1.7         0.67          0.43         1.10
Between 6 and 12 months        19.35       2.9         3.41          1.140       4.81
Between 12 and 24 months       21.86       3.3         2.41          2.17        4.85
0Over 24 months               600.72      90.1      254.84        165.39       420.23
Total       666.05    100.0        261.65        169.94       431.59
December 31, 1975
Up to 3 months                 16.60       2.6)4       0.61         1.140         2.01
Between 3 and 6 months         52.84       8.41        o.98          0.37        1.35
Between 6 and 12 months        57.16       9.09        2.90         3.69         6.59
Between 12 and 2)4 months      14.30       2.27        2.1)4        3.98         6.12
Over 24 months               1487.80     77.59      316.03        234.73       550.76
Total       628.70    100.00       322.66        244.17       566.83
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 10
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Non-Jute Arrears at December 31, 1974
(Tk million)
No. of      Principal                    Arrears
Public Sector              Projects    Outstanding    Principal    Interest    Total
1.  Projects under litigation
payments                            1             0.12          0.12             -       0.12
2.  Other projects ceased
operation                           6             4.9,3         2.28          1.94       4.22
3 Projects not making any
Payments in previous
24 months                          40            53.55         21.78         13.48      35.26
4.  Other projects making
irregular payments                 38            63.34         21.32          7.93     29.25
Sub-Total                    85          123,.94         45.50         23.35     68.85
Private Sector
1.  Projects under litigation
Small-scale                        41             0.70          o.69          0.30       0.99
Other                              38            20.20         16.96          5.o4     22.00
2.  Projects ceased operation
Small-scale                                          -                                      -
Other                              16             3.69          2.93          o.94       3.87
3.  Other projects not making any
payments in previous 24 months
Small-scale                       192             7.26          3.59          2.92      6.51
Other                              19            17.37          7.28          3.56      10.84
4.  Projects making irregular
payments
Small-scale                       157             7.69          3.17          1.43       4.60
Other                             133            87.67         37.13         17.24     54.37
Sub-Total                   596          144.58          71.75         31.43    103.18
Small-Scale             (390)         (15.65)         (7.45)        (4.65)   (12.10)
Other                   (206)        (128.93)        (64.30)       (26.78)   (91.08)
Total Public and Private              681           266.52         177C25        54.7S    172.03
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 1 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Audited Income Statements (FY72 through FY75)
(Tk Million)
FY71W    FY72       FY73     FY74       FY75
INCOME
Interest on foreign currency loans                              28.9      25.5     27.8       59.5
Interest on taka loans                                          12.5      10.7     10.1
Interest and penal interest on amounts overdue                   7.9      19.1     29.7       51.5
Interest on term deposits and money at call                      4.3       5.5      6.5        8.2
Return on investments                                              .3       .8        .7       1.0
Other interests and receipts                                     2.4       2.1      2.1        2.7
Gross Income                         36.6-     56.3      63.7      76.9     122.9
EXPENSES
Interest on deposits                                                       3.7      5.6       10.0
Interest on borrowing                                                     20.8     22.7       24.0
Additional interest imputed on contracted loans                           14.1      15.7         -
Total Financial Expenses             18.8      .         38.6      44.0      34.1
Compensation to employees                                        h.2       3.8       4-4      (
Bonus to staff                                                     .5       .5        .6      (14.8
Gratuity  Fund                                                     .2       .2        .2
Employees Benevolent Fund                                          .1       .1        .1
Depreciation                                                       .1        -        .1        0.2
Rent, insurance and other *xpenses                               2.4       2.4       3.1        3.9
Other adlministrative expenses                                     .1       .1        .2        0.9
Total Administrative Expenses         9.0        L. 76.1-/    8.7g             2
Provisions                                                       8.2       9.6       8.4       50.2
Total Expenses and Provisions        27.8      50.9      55.3     61          94.1
Income before taxes                                    8.9       5.4       8.4     15.8        28.8
Less:  Taxes                                                     3.1       4.7       8.8       15.0
Net Income                                                       2.3       3.7       7-0       13.8
APPROPRIATIONS
Special reserves                                                   .6       .9      1.6         2.8
General reserves                                                 1.7        .3      2.9         8.5
Dividends                                                          -       2.5      2.5         2.5
a! IDBPts East Pakistan operations.  Breakdown of income and of expenditure items not available.
b/ Net of Provisions
c/ Includes contributions to Gratuity Fund and Employees Benevolent Fund of TK 0.2 million and
-  TK 0.1 million respectively, that BSB's incorrectly shows in its books as appropriationg out
of net income.
April 15, 1976



ANN3X 12
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Audited Balance Sheets, FY72 - FY75
ASSETS                                              Dec. 17, 1971       FY72       FY73      FY74        FY75
Cssh in hand and with other banks                                  153.4          69.6        89.8     174.1      220.0
Government securities                                                1.5            .5        13.0      13.0       62.6
Short term loans                                                                   7.2         7.2       6.7        4.7
Interest receivable                                                               56.0 a/   95.6    155J4         233.7
Total Current Assets                        154-9 133.3                         205.6        9        521.0
Equity portfolio                                                     1.5           1.5        11.8      12.4       12.7
Gross Loan Portfolio                                  437.1          685.4      697.4      683.9      876.3
Less:  Provisions                                                                -17.3       -26.9     -34.9      -70.9
Net Loan Portfolio                                                   668.1      670.3      649.0      805.4
Fixed assets (net)                                                   2.8           2.3         2.1       2.1        2.2
Other assets                                                         5.7          18.4        22.2       8.1       14.3
Total Assebs                                          602.0          823.6      912.2   1,020.8    1,355.6
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                    96.5          108.9      144.0      203.3      244.9
Fixed deposits                                                      11.0 b/       33.0 b/    30.0 b/   37.7        57.9
Debentures                                                            -              -          -       40.0       40.0
Other liabilities                                                   25.2          14.9        11.8       7.5        4.6
Total Domestic Currency Borrowings                     36.2           47.9       41.8       85.2      102.5
IDBP borrowing not yet recognised by Goverrment                    287.7         489.6      458.1    455.3        588.7
Post-Independence Borrowings                                          -             -         45.3      48.5      132.3
Total Foreign Currency Borrowings                     287.7          489.6      503.4     503.8       721.0
',ar adjustment account c/                                         172.5         172.5       215.5        -         47.4
Subordinated Government loan                                          -             -           -      166.5      166.5
Paid-up capital                                                       -             -           -       50.0       50.0
Reserves                                                            -9.1           4.7         7.5      12.0        23.3
Net Worth                                                9.1           4.7        7.5       62.0       73.3
Total Liabilities and Net Worth                        602.0         823.6      912.2   1,020.8    1,355.6
Contingent Liabilities                                  26.1          46.2        1.2        9.3        7.2
Assets and Liabilities assigned to IDBP - Pakistan   953.2              -          -          -          -
a/ Combined accrued interest and principal amount overdue is given at Tk 161.4 million; the breakdown into components
is an estimate.
b/ Total deposits (including fixed deposits) on December 17, 1971 and at the end of FY72 and FY73 were Tk 21.8 million,
Tk 65.7 million and Tk 59.6 million respectively, the breakdown into deposits and fixed deposits is an estimate.
c/ Represents the difference between the domestic assets and liabilities which BSB acknowledged in seperating its
accounts from those of IDBP's.
April 15, 1976



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Past and Pro,jected Finanrial Ratios
Years BE3ing June 30
Actual                                Projected
1972     1973     &        UY75         2L      1Ly77     Id'd     IY72
i. Income Statemat Items as % of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                                                      7.9       7.8      8.0     10.3         9.7     10.1     10.5      10.7
Firancial Expenses                                                4.9      4.7       4.6      2.9         5.0      5.1      5.4       6.2
Administrative Expenses and Other Expenses                        1.0       0.8      0.9      0.8         o.8      0.8      0.8       0.8
Profit Before Provisions                                          1.4      1.5       1.6      5.4         2.5      2.4      2.6       2.4
Net Profit                                                        .4      0.5       0.8      1.2        1.2       1.2      1.4       1.1
2. Selected Income and Cost Items
Income from Loans as % of Averge Lcan Portfolio                   8.5    10.6        9.9     14.2       11.4      11.8     12.0      12.0
Cost of Term Debt as % of Average Term Debt
(excluding subordiLnted loan)                                     n.a      6.7       7.6      4.8        7.0       7.5      7.4       8.5
3. Net Profit
As % of Average kluit.y                                          37.7      65.6     21.0     20.4        10.0      6.9      9.0       7.5
As % of Average 2tuity + Subordirated Loan                       37.7      65.6      3.0      5.9         5.2      4.5      5.9       5.1
4. Structural Ratios
(Term Debt + Subordinated Loan)/Equity                          112.0     71.6     12.2      13.5        4.7       4.3      4.6      4.9
Temr Debt/Aquity + Subordinated Loan)                           112.0    71.6        2.6      3.4         4.7      4.3      4.6       4.9
Provisions as % of Gross Loan and &juity Portfolio                2.5       3.9      5.1      8.0         5.3      5.5      5.6       5.8
5.  Debt Service Coverage                                                n.a       3.5      3.4      2.7         2.1      1.8      1.9       1.3
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 14
BANGIADESH
Public Sector Industrial Investments in Plan
(TK million)
Under Construction   Balancing,
At Beginning          Modernization   New
Sector                    of Plan               & Replacement   Projects    Total
OUTSIDE.BSBS -PIRVI,W
Petrochemicals                                         -           1,610        161
Fertilizer                        43                                  75        118
Rayon                               -                                139        139
Shipbuilding                     332                  23               -        355
BSIC and CIC                   2.40                 - 20              60        220
Subtotal                   515                  43           1,884     2,442
WITHIN BSB'S PURVIEW
Jute                              49                 150              84        283
Non-jute textiles                 160                  99            805      1,064
Engineering 2/                   571                   97            252        920
Iron and steel 2/                  -                 126             864        990
Chemicals (other
than above)                      47                  15             247        309
Paper and board 2/                98                 144             124        366
Forestry                          15                    9             73         97
Mining and *inerals j/              8                   9            601        618
Sugar 2 /                         51                  67              18        136
Food and allied                     _                  4              75         79
Leather                                                10              8         68
Cinema                             5                   _              25         30
Subtotal                 1,004                 730          31,226     4,960
Total                    1,51                  773           5,110     7,402
/ Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation and Cottage Industry Corporation.
2/ May include some projects of a larger size than BSB would normally finance.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Strategy Paper
(approved by BSB's Board on January 14, 1976)
1.        The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank's main objective is development finan-
cing by way of providing credit facilities and equity-support to industrial
concerns for industrialization of Bangladesh. To achieve its objective, the
Bank has to perform a number of allied functions, such as, mobilization of
resources, assistance to its clients, investment promotion and training of
its staff internally and through outside agencies. In the context of the
current resources position and staff constraints, the Bank intends to be
guided in its operations by the following priority principles during the
course of the next few years.
ASSISTANCE TO THE BANK'S EXISTING CLIENTS
2.        The Bank had always had contacts with its projects through
obtention of periodical financial and performance reports and through
inspection. Its current policy is to further intensify its efforts for
a closer review and monitoring of the project's performance and operational
problems and to help solve the problems internally and with the assistance
of the external institutions. Such steps may call for re-structuring capi-
tal, change in organization and management, improving marketing and quality
control, rendering advice and assistance to solve problems of cost control,
scarcity of physical inputs, and liability increase emanating from monetary,
fiscal, industrial, labor and other policies of the Government. To this
end, the Bank may stipulate suitable conditions for enforcement. The Bank
may also strengthen the present Evaluation and Inspection Section of the
Loan Administration Department into a full-fledged Department to be manned
by qualified and experienced financial analysts and engineers as and when
the staff position is eased and after arrival of the UNDP experts.
COLLECTION OF OVERDUES
3.        With the currency devaluation in January 1972, the amount of
arrears had shot up and maintained upward trend with the continued non-
payment by the public sector'projects. As on the 31st December 1974,
the total arrears stood at Taka 431.5 million, of which the share of
the Jute Sector alone was 60%. Further devaluation of the Taka from
17th May, 1975 increased the outstanding foreign currency liabilities
automatically by another 58% increasing the arrears thereby to Taka
487.4 million as on 30th June, 1975 of which the share of Jute Sector
was about 66%. The other factors contributing to the growth of arrears
were the problems emanating from the shortage of imported raw materials
and spares, labor unrest, law and order situation, and the management
problems in the public sector projects.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
4.        The Bank would continue to make serious efforts in the next two
to three years to realize the overdues. In the case of Jute sector which
accounted for the overdues of Taka 319.5 million as on the 30th June, 1975,
a meeting was held on 18.9.75 with the Finance Secretary in the chair and
it was decided in principle to give effect to the rescheduling of payments
of the various Jute mills financed by the Bank on the following basis:
(i) The earlier Government decision in respect of granting
of moratorium (grace period) for five years beginning
from 1973 would be acceptable to the Bangladesh Jute
Industries Corporation (BJIC) and the financial
institutions;.
(ii) The total period of rescheduling would be reduced from
twenty years as was earlier envisaged to fifteen years
inclusive of the moratorium;.
(iii) The Bangladesh Jute Industries Corporation (BJIC) would
try to repay as much as possible towards the reduction
of interest even during the period of moratorium although
it (BJIC) could not agree to any specific amount;
(iv) The rate of interest in respect of the foreign cutrrency
loan would remain the same as stipulated in the original
loan agreements between the BSB and the Jute Mills;
(v) No subsidy would be allowed in respect of the rate of
interest on the local currency loan (which is usually
higher than the rate of interest applied to the foreign
currency loan); and
(vi) A joint exercise would be undertaken by the BJIC and the
financial institutions (including the BSB) to determine
the actual debt-servicing capacity of each Jute Mill and
if any Jute Mill is found to be in a position to repay
the loan, the moratorium would not be applicable to it.
In accordance with the above decisions BSB is at present finalizing the
revised schedule of repayment of individual mills and also conducting a
survey to ascertain the debt-servicing capacity of the BSB-financed Jute
Mills. In the case of other public sector projects, the Bank discussed the
arrear situation with the relevant Sector Corporations for clearance of over-
dues as on the 30th June, 1975. The following targets have been set up for
collection of overdues on the basis of the understanding given by the Public
Sector Corporations (other than the BJIC/Jute Mills):



ANNEX 15
Page 3
TARGETS FOR COLLECTION OF OVERDUES
(PUBLIC SECTOR)
(Amount in million Taka)
Overdues             Target 1975-76
S1.                                    as on           for cash         for re-
No.    Name of Corporations           30.6.75          recovery       scheduling
1.  Textile Industries                 30.4               7.6             22.8
Corporation
2.  Steel Mills Corporation             2.9                0.7             2.2
3.  Engineering & Shipbuilding          2.3                 -              2.3
Corporation
4   Fertilizer, Chemical &              5.o                0.5             4.5
Pharmaceutical Corporation
5.  Food & Allied Industries            6.6                1.7             4.9
Corporation
6.  Paper & Board Corporation           3.6                0.9             2.7
7.  Inland Water Transport              1.3                0.3             1.0
Corporation
8.  Parjatan Corporation                1.9                1.9
9.  Forest Industries Development    0.4                    -              0.4
Corporation
10.  Freedom Fighter's Welfare           0.2                                0.2
Trust
11.  Sena Kallyan Sangstha               0.1                 -              0.1
12.  Disinvestment Board                 7.1                7.1              -
13.   Under Direct Control of            6.2                -               6.2
the Government
68.0              20.7             47.3
5.        The Bank also initiated discussion with the private sector proj-
ects for clearance of overdues as on the 30th June, 1975, and the follow-
ing targets have been set up for collection of arrear dues on the basis
of the understanding given by them:



ANNEX 15
Page 4
TARGETS FOR COLLECTION OF OVERDUES
(PRIVATE SECTOR)
(Amount in million Taka)
Overdues             Target 1975-76
Si.                                   as on          for cash         for re-
No.    Name of Corporations          30.6.75         recovery       scheduling
1.  Jute                              *2.0              0.4                -
2.  Cotton Textile                     2.4               1.2              1.2
3.  Steel                              0.4                 -              0.4
4.  Engineering                        2.0              0.5               1.5
5   Electrical                         0.8              0.2               0.6
6.  Chemical                           2.4              0.6               1.8
7.  Paper & Packaging                  2.1              0.2               1.9
8.  Printing & Publishing              4.6               1.2              3.4
9.  Leather                            2.4              0.2               2.2
10.  Rubber                              -                  -               -
11.  Food                               3.8              0.8               3.0
12.  Ice & Cold Storage                10.0              2.5               7.5
13.  Cigarettes                         4.8               1.2              3.6
14.  Hotels                            15.5              4.0              11.5
15.  Cinema                             6.2               1.6              4.6
16.  Water Transport                    4.6               1.2              3.4
17.  Road Transport                     0.5              0.2               0.3
18.  Non-Metalic Mineral               19.0              5.0              14.0
Products
19.  Miscellaneous                      2.7              0.7               2.0
20.  Small Industries                **13.7                -                -
(BSIC-sponsored projects)
99.9             21.7             62.9
*Provision for bad and doubtful debt of Taka 1.6 million has been made on
account of a damaged project.
**The question of transferring the liabilities on account of the small in-
dustries (BSIC-sponsored) to the BSIC is being negotiated with Ministry
of Industries and the BSIC.
6.        In addition to the above, the Bank will accelerate its supervi-
sion efforts by increasing its project visits and insisting on receiving
regular financial statements from all its clients.
PROJECT APPRAISAL
7.        While entertaining applications for financial assistance and
processing them, the following guidelines will be kept in view:



ANNEX 15
Page 5
(i) The industries mainly based on local raw materials, the
products of which are exportable or form industrial raw
materials and consumable goods and where the existing
capabilities are inadequate will be given top priority;
(ii) Where the setting up of projects involves the import of
raw materials, priority will be given to those industries
which are export-oriented or import-substituting;
(iii) All other industries which are neither import-substituting
nor export-oriented but primarily based on the imported
raw materials will be taken up for consideration only when
the national interest so demands; and
(iv) In all categories of industries mentioned in (i) to (iii)
above, preference will be given to BMRE cases.
In determining the above noted priorities of industries, the capacity
utilization of the existing industrial units will also be taken into
consideration.
8.        In view of the recent revision of the Investment Policy of the
Government raising the private sector investment ceiling from Taka 30 mil-
lion to Taka 100 million, BSB expects to contribute effectively in the
acceleration of industrial investment in the private sector. The Bank
would also endeavor to seek out entrepreneurs for industries eligible
for setting up in collaboration with the Sector Corporation.
9.        The Bank would also endeavor to avoid financing any new project
in a sector where the existing ondustrial units have significant under-
utilized capacity. It is, however, felt that in certain sectors of in-
dustries such as those producing essential consumer goods/import substi-
tution products, for which there is substantial demand which could not be
met even if installed capacities could be utilized at an optimum level,
but there is under-utilization of existing capacities due to shortage of
imported raw materials, the Bank in such cases may finance these nationally
important industrial sectors, if the Bank is reasonably convinced that
there is likelihood of improvement in the supply of imported raw materials
in near future. Sectoral studies with regard to the capacity utilization
will be taken up by the Bank to assess the position regarding utilization
of capacity and the position will be reviewed from time to time.
10.       In determining the Bank's own sectoral priorities for lending
operations, it is primarily guided by the Industrial Investment Schedule
for private sector financing and by the Government's own investment plans
for the public sector. Thus, the BSB's priorities for lending are con-
sistent with those of the Government.



ANNEX 15
Page 6
11.       The following table indicates the volume of financial assistance
the BSB expects to provide to various priority sectors based on projects
now in its pipeline and others expected to be received:
(Taka in '000')
Loan Applied for        Public or
F/C       L/C       Private Sector
A.   DOMESTIC RAW MATERIALS BASED:
1.   Ice Plant & Cold Storage   5,137           710     Private Sector
2.   Packaging, Printing &        6,521         950           -do-
Publishing
3.   Cinema Hall                  2,594       2,715           -do-
4.   Straw Board                    810          -            -do-
5.   Salt Crushing                  795       1,157           -do-
6.   Tea Chest Mfg.               1,993       1,000           -do-
7.   Industrial Chemicals           800          -            -do-
8.   Jute Textile                 1,081       3,100     Public Sector
Total:  19,731       9,632
B.   EXPORT-ORIENTED.
1.   Tannery & Footwear           7,860       2,050     Private Sector
2.   Catching, Canning and       16,271       3,739           -do-
Processing of Fish
3.   Fruit & Vegetable
Processing                   950      1,050           -do-
4.   Melamine Crockery              672         195
Total:     25,753       7,034
C.   ItPORT SUBSTITUTION (DOMESTIC/
INDIRECT IMPORT RAW MATERIALS BASED)
1.   Cotton Textile (Towel        4,807       1,514     Private Sector
Looms)
2.   Synthetic Textile           27,029       5,326            -do-
Weaving & Knitting)
3.   Hosiery                      3,012         482            -do-
4.   Absorbent Cotton             3,493         750            -do-
5.   Food Products                  250         120            -do-
6.   Canvas Cloth, Belt, etc.   2,364           970            -do-
7.   Thread Spooling              3,674         381            -do-
8.   Mosquito Netting etc.          945         400            -do-
9.   Cotton Textile (Weaving)  95,370        15,160        Public Sector
Total:    140,944      25,103



ANNEX 15
Page 7
Loan Applied for        Public or
F/C       L/C       Private Sector
D.   IMPORT SUBSTITUTION (REQUIRING
IMPORTED RAW MATERIALS BELOW 20%)
1.   Ready made Garments               395      397     Private Sector
2.   Waste Mobil Oil Purification    700         -              -do-
Total:   1,095      397
E.   IMPORT-SUBSTITUTION (REQUIRING
IMPORTED RAW MATERIALS (20% &
ABOVE)
1.   Pharmaceuticals                20,411   6,890      Private Sector
2.   Misc. Industries                2,172   1,392             -do-
3.   Flour Milling                  24,412   6,761             -do-
4.   Engineering                     7,613   3,267             -do-
5.   Domestic Hardware                 400       75            -do-
6.   Paper Mills                    36,200  31,700      Public Sector
7.   Chemicals                     151,450 110,316             -do-
8.   Cotton Textile (Spinning)    76,300  28,800               -do-
Total:    318,958 189,201
GRAND TOTAL (A+B+C+D+E):   506,481 231,367
WORKING CAPITAL LOANS
(INCLUDING FOREIGN EXCHANGE)
12.       The BSB has come to a conclusion that under the present circum-
stances, it can make a significant contribution to full-capacity utiliza-
tion of its otherwise idle projects through making short-term loans for
their working capital requirements. The BSB will seek to obtain alloca-
tions of commodity credits so that it can provide foreign exhange for the
import of raw materials and spare parts required by its clients. The
Government of U.K. has lately agreed to give a commodity aid of 1.00
million for import by the BSB-financed projects of raw materials and spare
parts.
13.       The Bank would continue and expand its promotional activities
for project identification and project development, particularly in re-
spect of export-oriented and agro-based industries, such as fisheries,
leather and leather goods, processing and canning of agricultural pro-
ducts (pineapple, banana, papaya, guava, cashewnut, lemon, tomato paste),
silk industries, cigars, and cheroots from local tobacco, starch factories,
paper and paper products. It will also explore the development prospects
of forward or backward linkage industries such as spare parts, medicinal
drugs, rayon and industries using industrial wastes. Besides, the recent
project promotion activities of the Bank in the less developed regions,
such as northern districts, and Chittagong Hill Tracts will be further
intensified.



ANNEX 15
Page 8
14.       The Bank would continue its efforts in augmenting its Taka
resources position by attracting deposits from both individual and
Corporation/Companies, by issue of debentures, by enlarging the equity
base through increased contribution by the Government and by borrowing
from the Central Bank at concessional rates.



BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Pipeline of Projectsa/, March 1975
(TK million)h/
Amounts in Active Pipeline           Applications                         Total/
Expected       not yet Assigned  Applications  Private  Public
Sector                      Priority  Less Priority  Rejections       for Appraisal      Expected       Sector   Sector
Textiles                       81          12                3              119              194           38       368
Food and allied products        5           2                 8              39              169          130        85
Engineering                     8           -                 1               6               89           81        22
Paper, printing                14           4                6                9                _           27         -
Chemicals, glass               10           2                3                3               57           72 
Leather                         1            -               -                -               33.          34          d/
Miscellaneous                   3           2                 8               4                66 96-
Total (TK million)         122          22               29              180              548          391      481
Number of projects          5           15              29               34               47          113        33
a/ Excludes possible investments of TK353 million and TK90 million respecti,vely in the Karnaphuli Rayon
and Paper Mills, which are too large for BSB to finance except under special arrangements.
b/ The Taka value of expected foreign currency lending (roughly 75% of total) has been adjusted to take
account of the May 1975 devaluation of the Taka.
c/ Excludes expected cancellations out of active pipeline.
d/ Forest industries.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 1
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Main Assumptions of Projected Operations and Financial Statemepts, FY75-FY79
FORECAST OF OPERATIONS
Net approvals in FY76 would be Tk 272 million followed by 10%
annual increases thereafter. Foreign currency loans are expected to be
about 75% of total approvals.
2.        About 60% of approvals are expected to be committed in the year of
approval, 40% in the following year. About 60% of commitments are expected
to be disbursed in the year of commitment, 35% the following year, and 5% in
the second year after commitment. This is in line with BSB's past experience,
allowing for some expected improvements in commitment rates due to streamlin-
ing of legal procedures.
REVENUES
3.        Interest on existing foreign currency loans is 8%, and on domestic
currency and new foreign currency loans it is 12%. Interest on overdue
interest is taken at 8%. Penalty interest on overdue interest and principal
is calculated at 1.5%.
4.        Other loan charges include technical examination and documentation
fees (aggregating 0.5% of approvals) and letter of credit charges and
commitment fees (aggregating 1% of commitments). A TK 2 million per year
exchange risk commission on counterpart funds is collected and paid to
Government.
5.        Income from deposits and Government securities is taken at an
average level of 6%.
EXPENSES
6.        Interest on borrowing is calculated at 5.5% on unrecognized IDBP
borrowings, at 7% on the existing ADB credit, and at 9% on new foreign
borrowings. A TK 2 million exchange risk commission is included in interest
expense. Interest expense on deposits is computed at 9% on fixed deposits,
7% on short-term deposits, and 5% on savings accounts (included in short-
term deposits).



ANNEX 17
Page 2
7.        Administrative costs are projected to increase by 20% in FY76,
15% in FY77, and 10% thereafter, reflecting salary increases and growth
in numbers of staff.
8.        Taxes are computed at 54% of profit before tax.
CASH FLOWS
9.        Subordinated Government debt of Tk 150 million are expected to be
converted into equity in FY76. In addition, GOB will increase BSB's equity by
Tk 50 million in FY77.
10.       The May 1975 Taka devaluation is expected to increase the Taka
value of BSB's foreign currency loans and borrowings by about Tk 280 million.
11.       Collections and repayments exclude any changes on the 60% of
BSB's portfolio in the jute industry (which is expected to be rescheduled).



ANNEX 18
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Forecast of Operations, FY75-FY79
(TK million)
Actual        Years Ending June 30
1/                          1974      1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
NET APPROVALS
Foreign currency loans                   57        201     208      229     252      277
Local currency loans                     38         67      614      70       77
Total                              +           7       272      299     329      302
COMMITMENTS
Foreign currency loans                    4         68     197      220      243     267
Local currency loans                     11         25      60       68       714     82
Total                                         93      257     288      317      349
DISBURSEMENTS
Foreign currency loans                    2         24     166      207      232     255
Local currency loans                     15         11      50       74       73      78
Total                               17        3        T216    281     305      333
1/ Net of assumed 10% cancellations. Excludes possible loans to the Karnaphuli Paper
Mill and the Karnaphuli Raycn & Chemicals Plant.
April 1, 1976



ANNEX 19
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Projected Income Statements, FY75-FY79
(TK million)
Actual             Years'Ending June 30
1974     1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
INCOME
Loan interest                                   68        88      126      152      182      215
Other loan charges                                2        5        6        6         7       7
Income from deposits and Gov't
securities                                     7        15        8      22        25       27
Total income                              77-      10=5    152      180       214
EXPENDITURES
Interest on deposits                                        7       9       12       15       20
Interest on borrowings                          0        41       70       85       96      125
Total financial expenses                  44       T8        79      97       111      15F
Administrative and other expenses                 9       11       13       15        16      18
Provisions                                        8       40       21       22       2h       29
Total expenses                           T1        T9      113    T1'    151           192
Income before tax                               16         9       39       46       63       57
Taxes                                             9        5       21       25        34      31
Net Income                                 7         4       18      21        29    - 26
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 20
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Pro,jected Balance Sheets, FY75-FY79
(TK million)
Actual            Years Ending June 30
1974      1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                           174        262     283      374     426      444
Government securities                        13         62      62       62      62       62
Short term loans                              7         16      18       21      24       31
Interest receivable                         153        160     172      181     191      217
Less:  Provisions                            -         (24)    (33)    (41)    (49)   ( 59)
Total current assets                   347        477-    502       9 7    654      745
Foreign currency loans                      481        823 a/  955   1,130   1,321   1,535
Local currency loans                        203        203     227      268     316      377
Equity investnents                           13         13      13       13      13       13
Less:  Provisions                          j35)       j.1)    (63)    (77)        3      1
Net portfolio                               662         3W   1,132   1,334  1l,W7  1, 13
Fixed and other assets                       12         12       16      21       25      26
Total Assets                         1,021     1,476   1,650  1,950   22^3          a
LIABILITIES and EQUITY
Short-term deposits                          45         47      61       79     101      133
Bangladesh bank borrowing                    34         34       -        -      -        -
Interest payable                             94        lia      136     159     180      200
Other current liabilities                    30         33      33       44      53       61
Total current liabilities              203        225     230     282      334     394
Fixed deposits                               45         59      76       99     129      167
Domestic borrowings                           0         40      40       40      40       40
IDBP borrowings not yet recognized          456        746 a/  717      671     627      585
Other foreign borrowings                     48        173 a/  339      5)46    768      989
Total term debt                        589  L,0-   1.172   1.356   1.564   1,781
Subordinated Government loan                167        167      17       17      17       17
Share capital                                50         50      5o      100     100      100
Reserves                                     12         16      31       47      71       92
Capital reserves                                          -   150    jO1 152             150
229      -3233              14     338      359
Total Liabilities and Equity            1,021      1,476   1,650   1,952   2,236   2,534
Contingent liabilities                        9         52      20        1     -          7
a/ The May 1975 devaluation is expected to increase the Taka value of foreign currency
loans by about TK 280 million beginning in 1975, of unrecognized IDBP borrowuings by
about TK 250 million, and of other foreign currency borrowings by about TK 30 million.
The projections include these adjustments.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 21
BANGLADESH SHIILPA BANK
Prolected Cash Flow Statements, FY75-lVY79
(TK million)
Years Ending June 30
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
SOURCES
Net income plus  non-cash charges             44       39     43       53      55
Increase in share capital                      -       -       50       -       -
Foreign currency loan collections             34       34      32-     41      41
Local currency loan collections               29       26      23      25      17
Increase in fixed deposits                    14       17      23      30      38
Foreign borrowings                            97      166     207     232      255
Increase in current liabilities               22        5      52      52      60
Total                                   240     287      380     433     466
USES
Repayments
On IDBP borrowings                           (39)      29      46      44        42
Other foreign borrowings                      -        -       -       10        34
Disbursements
Foreign currency loans                        97      166     207     232       255
Local currency loans                          29      50       64      73        78
Dividend                                      -         3       5       5        5
Increase in fixed and other assets            -         4       5       4         1
Increase in current assets                   153       35      53      65       51
240     287     380      433      466
a / Before provisions.
April 15, 1976



ANNEX 22
BANGIADESH SHILPA BANK
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements for the IDA Credits-
Per Quarter         Cummulative
--------US$ Million-
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter
1976-77
2nd                                         2.2                 2.2
3rd                                         2.2                 4.4
4th                                         2.4                 6.8
1977-78
1st                                         2.4                 9.2
2nd                                         2.24               11.6
3rd                                         2.0                14.0
4th                                         2.0                16.0
1978-79
1st                                         2.0                18.0
2nd                                         2.0                20.0
3rd                                         2.0                22.0
4th                                         1.0                23.0
1979-80
1st                                         1.0                24.0
2nd                                         0.5                24.5
3rd                                         0.5                25.0
25.0
7T  Assumes Credit would be effective by July 1976.
April 15, 1976



