CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 632 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
Dated June 3, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (hereinafter called BSB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement (Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank Project) of even date herewith between People's
Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BSB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BSB, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BSB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS BSB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BSB shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its
operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, under the supervision of qualified
management assisted by qualified personnel in adequate number
and in accordance with the Charter and the Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) The amortization schedule applicable to
each sub-loan shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Association and BSB shall otherwise agree, shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Association of such sub-loan, or of authorization by the Associa-
tion to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of
such sub-loan, and shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(b) Sub-loans shall bear interest at a rate of not less
than 12% per annum on the principal amount of the sub-loans
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.03. BSB undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made
on terms whereby BSB shall obtain, by written contract with the


﻿-4-0
investment enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BSB, in-
cluding, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of
BSB to:
(i) require the investment enterprise to carry out
and operate the investment project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, ac-
count being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and re-
liability of the goods and availability of main-
tenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
*          in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the investment
project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Association if the Association shall so re-
quest, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the investment project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;


﻿-5-
(iv)  require that: (1) the investment enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with appropriate business practice; and (2)
without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover all hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the sub-loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the investment enterprise to replace or
repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Association
or BSB shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the investment
enterprise;
(vi)  suspend or terminate the right of the investment
enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the sub-
loan upon failure by such investment enterprise
to perform its obligations under its contract
with BSB; and
(vii)  require that the investment enterprise ensure
that no declaration of dividends or transfer
of funds to any other enterprise, except trans-
fers related directly to contractual obligations


﻿-6-
of such investment enterprise, would take place
if such dividends or transfer would result in a
debt-equity ratio above such ratio as may be ac-
ceptable to BSB.
Section 2.04. BSB shall exercise its rights in relation to
each investment project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and BSB; (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. BSB shall submit to the Association for its
prior approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by
BSB in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan, pro-
vided, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to
free-limit sub-loans.
Section 2.06. BSB shall promptly inform the Association of
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning, or waiving any material provision of any agreement
under which funds have been lent to or otherwise put at the dis-
posal of BSB.
Section 2.07. BSB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BSB shall not take or concur in any ac-
tion which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assign-
ing or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿(-7-
Section 2.08. (a) BSB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BSB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by BSB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BSB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer, encumber or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary under
the laws and regulations of the Borrower to maintain its corporate
existence and right to carry on operations and to acquire, main-
tain, and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises ne-
cessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.10. If BSB establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
BSB shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obli-
gations of BSB hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations
were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BSB shall employ for a period of not less than eighteen


﻿-8-
months an expert in economic appraisal and project promotion, and
an expert in accounting and information systems, each with quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿*                            -9-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BSB shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (in-
cluding the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of BSB.
Section 3.02. BSB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of BSB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
BSB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner
as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit provided in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond BSB's control, be


﻿- 10 -
temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action
as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within
such limit.
Section 3.04. BSB shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding fixed term debt of
BSB which, in the judgment of the Association, would materially
affect BSB's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and BSB, BSB shall not incur or permit any sub-
sidiary to incur any debt if, after the incUrring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of BSB and all its subsidiaries then in-
curred and outstanding would be greater than five times the con-
solidated capital and surplus of BSB and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by BSB or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(b) The term incurring of debt includes the assumption and
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension, or modification of
the terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
and
(c) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or agreement, (ii)


﻿0                             -11 -
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding, and (iii) in respect of
deposits not subject to withdrawal less than one year after re-
ceipt, as and when they are received.
(d) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Takas debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(e) "consolidated debt of BSB and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of BSB and all its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by BSB to any subsidiary or by any sub-
sidiary to BSB or to any other subsidiary.
(f) "consolidated capital and surplus of BSB and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up ca-
pital, surplus and free reserves of BSB and all its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of BSB in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in BSB
or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. BSB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Takas) used in its lending and borrow-
ing operations.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.07. The Association and BSB shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of BSB and its subsidiaries, and BSB shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request uoncerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BSB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Project, the investment enterprises, the investment projects, the
sub-loans and investments, vnd the administration, operations and
financial condition of BSB and all its subsidiaries.
Section 3.08. BSB shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BSB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii) a date eighteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify BSB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
t'on or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-14 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement be-
tween the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Developmeat Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BSB:
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
Agrani Bhaban
Motijheel Commercial Area
Dacca 2, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARKALPA
Dacca


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BSB may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Chairman
of BSB's Board of Directors shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. BSB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BSB, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by BSB pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. Failure to Exercise Rights: No delay in exercis-
ing, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing
to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair
any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver
thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall any action
of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it
in any default, affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such
party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 5.05. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH SHILPA BANK
By /s/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative


