CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 632 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1976, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Shilpa
Bank with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Bangladesh Shilpa Bank the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2                                      0
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BSB" means Bangladesh Shilpa Bank established by
Presidential Order No. 129 of the Borrower dated October 31, 1972,
vesting therein the undertakings of the Industrial Development
Bank of Bangladesh and the Equity Participation Fund in Bangladesh;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BSB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
01


﻿-3-
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BSB pursuant to Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by BSB out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BSB
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to an investment enteLprise
for an investment project; "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan,
as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement;
(e) "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by BSB out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to BSB in an investment enterprise for an investment
project;
f    "investment enterprise" means an enterprise to which BSB
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to
make or has made an investment;
(g) "investment project" means a specific development project
to be carried out by an investment enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a sub-loan or investment;
(h) "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of .the Borrower;


﻿-4-(
(j) "Charter" means the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Order, 1972
(President's Order No. 129 of 1972), as amended from time to time;
(k) "Statement of Policy" means the "Operating Policies"
approved by the BSB Board of Directors on April 29, 1975, as
amended from time to time; and
(1) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or is effectively controlled by BSB or by any one or more
subsidiaries of BSB or by BSB and one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower hereby designates BSB as its repre-
sentative for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree BSB shall, acting on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement, be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account to finance the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the investment project in respect of which withdrawal
is requested: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, required to meet payments to be made) in foreign currency
for goods produced, or services supplied from, outside the terri-
tory of the Borrower; (ii) the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%)
of amounts paid for the purchase price of previously imported goods
purchased within the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) the
equivalent of twenty-five per cent (25%) of amounts paid (or, if
the Association shall so agree, required to meet payments to be
made) for civil works (representing the estimated foreign expendi-
ture component thereof); provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (A) the
01


﻿- 6 -
sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association;
or (B) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an invest-
ment project inh an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $150,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such investment
project or (ii) $6,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-
limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Association in consultation
with the Borrower and BSB.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an invest-
ment enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's
approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expenditures
shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall
have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the appli-
cation and information required by Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Association for ap-
proval, the Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together
with a description of the investment enterprise and an appraisal


﻿-7-
of the investment project (including a description of the expendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to BSB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the investment, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request to the Association for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the investment
enterprise and the investment project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BSB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, applications pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section should be submitted to the Association on
or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿- 8 -
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1986 and ending May 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1,
1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution
of the Project
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the People's Republic of Bangladesh as will contribute to
the economic and social development of the country through the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank. The Project consists in the financing,
through BSB, of specific development projects by making loans
to, and investments in, productive enterprises in the People's
Republic of Bangladesh.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to BSB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BSB under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide inter alia
for the following:
(i)        payment of interest by BSB to the Borrower on
amounts lent thereunder and outstanding at a
rate of not less than nine per cent (9%) per
annum;
A             (ii)       interest rates of not less than twelve per cent
(12%) per annum, in respect of all amounts re-
ceived thereunder and relent by BSB; and
01


﻿- 10                                     0
(iii)     assumption of the foreign exchange risk by BSB and
BSB's passing on such risk to the investment enter-
prise during the periods for which the proceeds of
the Credit provided by the Borrower to BSB and by
BSB to the investment enterprises, respectively,
are outstanding.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause BSB to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable BSB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall issue or cause to be issued, promptly
as needed, all permits, import licenses and all other authorizations
required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes:


﻿- 11 -
(a) to carry out a study of its approval requirements and
processes in respect of private secZor investments with a view to
expediting approval of sound investment proposals and to furnish
draft terms of reference for such a study to the Association for
comment not later than three months after the date of this Agree-
ment and to allow the Association opportunity to comment on the
draft report of said study, which shall be completed not later
than nine months after the date of this Agreement; and
(b) to initiate, in consultation with the Association, a
study of the feasibility of establishing a duty free export pro-
cessing zone not later than nine months after the date of this
Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes to cause PSB's equity
(through the provision of funds or the conversion of debt owed it
into equity) to be increased to, and maintained at, levels adequate
to: (a) offset any liabilities of BSB's predecessors which might
be assigned to BSB, or recognized to be liabilities of BSB, in
excess of any amounts which BSB has already allocated for that
purpose in the war adjustment account in its balance sheet, dated
June 30, 1975; and (b) enable BSB to fulfill its obligations under
Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) With respect to outstanding debt to BSB
resulting from loans made to jute processing enterprises prior to
December 16, 1971, including any rescheduling thereof, the Borrower
shall:


﻿- 12 -
(i)       In the event that any jute processing enterprise
has defaulted on repayment of principal and/or
interest on any foreign currency loan during a BSB
financial year, reduce the amounts of the next
scheduled repayments from BSB to the Borrower in
the financial year subsequent to such default until
the sum of such reductions is equal to the amount
of such default;
(ii)      In the event that ary jute processing enterprise
has defaulted on repayment of principal and/or
interest on a loan in Taka, provide to BSB an
interest-free loan equal to the amount of such
default in the year subsequent to such default,
provided that any such interest-free loan shall be
converted to a grant or a contribution to BSB equity
if BSB is unable to collect such outstanding debt
from the defaulting jute processing enterprise with-
in two years after the default shall have occurred.
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall
ceas  to apply to any debt outstanding from a jute processing
enterprise if (i) BSB shall have made a new loan to such enterprise
after the date of this Agreement; or (ii) the Borrower and BSB
have provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that said
enterprise has been restored to a sound financial condition and
should be expected to be able to service its debts.


﻿-13 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section a default shall have
occurred when an enterprise has failed to make a payment of prin-
cipal or interest to BSB in the fiscal year of BSB in which such
payment is due.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BSB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BSB under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BSB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) any part of the principal amount of any loan to BSB
(other than deposits) having an original maturity of one year
or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due
and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall
have become enforceable;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Charter which
will materially and adversely affect the financial condition
or operations of BSB;
(e) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without mutual agreement among the Borrower, BSB and
the Association;


﻿-15 -
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by BSB, if such creation, acquisition
or taking over would materially and adversely affect the conduct
of BSB's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(g) BSB shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BSB
or by others whereby any of the assets of BSB shall or may be
distributed among its creditors; and
(h) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action, without the Association's prior con-
sent, for the dissolution or disestablishment of BSB or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (f) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower and BSB; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (g)
or (h) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of BSB have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and BSB, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action;
(c)   BSB has appointed an expe.t in economic appraisal and
project promotion, and an expert in accounting and information
systems, each with qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment satisfactory to the Association;
(d)   BSB has appointed a Director of Operations and a Chief
Accountant, both of whom being suitably qualified and experienced;
(e)   BSB has signed rescheduling agreements acceptable to the
Association with each jute processing enterprise having outstand-
ing debt to BSB; and


﻿-17 -
(f) the Borrower has provided Taka 50 million of additional
equity to BSB.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, BSB, and is
legally binding upon BSB in accordance with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and BSB, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BSB
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 6, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18-                                     0
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
01


﻿-19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-20                                       0
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the
provisions of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) the words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03; and
(b) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a)
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in Section 2.04(c) of this Agreement
no applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the
Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having
been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the
Closing Date an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account, the Association may by notice to the
Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
applications or requests or make withdrawal from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or
portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


