                                                                                             46934

                PERU: Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project
                               PROJECT RESTRUCTURING PAPER
                                            DATA SHEET

Date: November 17, 2008                         Task Team Leader: Ivo Imparato
Country: Peru                                   Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
Project Name: Vilcanota Valley                  Country Director: Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
Rehabilitation and Management Project           Original Environmental category: B
Project ID: P082625                             Revised Environmental category: A*
Borrower: Republic of Peru
Responsible Agency: Ministerio de Comercio Exterior y Turismo (MINCETUR)
Address: MINCETUR, Avenida Uno, CORPAC, San Isidro, Lima
Contact Person: Viceministro de Turismo, VMT, Pablo López de Romaña
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                 2005-2006         2007           2008           2009            2010-2011
Annual             0.17              0.16           0.95           1.50            2.20
Cumulative         0.17              0.33           1.28           2.78            4.98
Current closing date: 06/30/09
Revised closing date: 06/30/11
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved X
RVP approved ___

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?               __Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                         __ Not Applicable
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                          __ Yes X No

Revised project development objective/outcomes:
The Project Development Objective remains the same as in the original PAD; however, the PAD
outcome indicator framework has been modified. The proposed restructuring includes: (a) transferring
project execution from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR) to the regional
government of Cusco (GRC) through its experienced executing agency Proyecto Especial Regional
Plan COPESCO Cusco (COPESCO); (b) streamlining and simplifying project implementation
procedures; (c) refocusing on a limited number of high-priority subcomponent to make effective use of
limited funds; (d) strengthening institutional counterpart capacity for managing project fiduciary and
safeguard responsibilities; (e) enhancing Government ownership and creating additional accountability
mechanisms by introducing an inter-institutional Steering Committee; (f) modifying the project's
results framework and outcome indicators to reflect the above changes; (g) reallocating funds among
disbursement categories and realigning disbursement percentages to reflect modifications to project
subcomponents; and (h) extending the closing date by 24 months, from June 30, 2009, to June 30,
2011.
__

Revised project development objective/outcomes continued:

Technical Feasibility Clearance Mechanism. The inter-institutional Steering Committee will review
and ensure that prospected project activities comply with specific technical feasibility requirements
gatillos (triggers) for specific subcomponents as specified in the project paper.

Safeguards and Disclosure. The restructured Project is expected to have a lower risk of producing
negative environmental and social impacts than did the original Project design. However, the Project
has been reclassified from Category "B" to Category "A." This change is based on the realization,
through consultations and work during the first phase of the project, that the environmental and social
sensitivity of the area warrants a Category "A" rather than the "B" that was earlier assessed to be
appropriate. Additionally, OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) and OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats) have been
triggered. The updated PID, ISDS, the Environmental and Social Management (EA) and Indigenous
Peoples Instrument (IPP) have been disclosed at the InfoShop in Washington. In addition, Spanish
language versions of these documents have been made available by the Borrower for public review at
convenient locations in Cusco and the Vilcanota Valley as well as in the MINCETUR and COPESCO
websites.

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?
*The restructured Project is expected to have a lower risk of producing negative environmental and
social impacts than did the original Project design. However, due to the sensitive nature of the
environment in which the Project operates, it has been reclassified from Category "B" to Category "A."
Additionally, OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) and OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats) have been triggered. The
updated PID, ISDS, the Environmental and Social Management (EA) and Indigenous Peoples
Instrument (IPP) have been disclosed at the InfoShop in Washington. In addition, Spanish language
versions of these documents have been made available by the Borrower for public review at convenient
locations in Cusco and the Vilcanota Valley as well as in the MINCETUR and COPESCO websites.

                                  Revised/Original Financing Plan (US$)
                    Source                       Local               Foreign                   Total
Borrower                                          3.22                                         3.22
IBRD/IDA                                          3.80                 1.18                    4.98
Others
Total                                             7.02                 1.18                    8.20

               PERU: Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project


A. INTRODUCTION

1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to restructure the Peru,
Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project, Loan Number 7257-PE, Project ID
082625 (the Project), and accompanying amendments to the Project's legal documents. The
proposed changes are to:
    transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR) to the Cusco
    Regional Government (GRC) the execution of several specific subcomponents;
    streamline and simplify Project implementation procedures;
    reallocate funds among disbursement categories so as to better reflect modifications of certain
    Project subcomponents; as a result, Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement has been modified to
    reflect adjustments to counterpart funds;
    include changes in the nature of certain subcomponents to better fit expected outcomes and
    available funds, refocusing the Project on a limited number of high-priority subcomponents;
    strengthen institutional counterpart capacity for managing project fiduciary and safeguard
    responsibilities;
    enhance Government ownership and create an additional accountability mechanism by
    introducing an inter-institutional Steering Committee;
    modify the Project's Results Framework and outcome indicators, and
    extend the Closing Date by 24 months.

2.    Project outcomes are expected to be achieved as a result of: (i) strong political will in the
GRC to become involved in the Project and in MINCETUR and the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (MEF) to transfer execution of relevant project activities to the regional government; (ii)
high liquidity in the GRC from tourism fees and hydrocarbon and mining royalties, allowing for
the GRC to provide 100% of counterpart funding for the activities it will execute, thus
compensating for shortages in MINCETUR counterpart funds; (iii) the fact that GRC has an
experienced executing agency, Proyecto Especial Regional Plan COPESCO (COPESCO) with
the necessary capacity to accelerate Project implementation; and (iv) strong political will within
MINCETUR to reverse previously poor Project performance by restructuring its Project
Implementation Team (PIT).

3.    The objectives for the Project's Restructuring (the Restructuring) are to: (i) improve and
accelerate Project implementation by decentralizing and transferring specific Project
subcomponents from MINCETUR to the GRC; (ii) adjust Project subcomponents to the changes
in local circumstances and Government priorities that have taken place since Project inception,
making better use of the Project's limited funds by financing feasibility studies and engineering
designs that will generate an infrastructure project pipeline for the Vilcanota Valley; (iii) restate
the Project Results Framework and outcome indicators accordingly; and (iv) improve fiduciary
and safeguards performance. While the proposed changes do not affect the Project Development
Objective (PDO), Project outcomes and indicators are more clearly defined and aligned with the
proposed activities.


B. BACKGROUND AND REASONS FOR RESTRUCTURING

4.    The Project in the amount of US$4.98 million approved on September 14, 2004 became
effective on May 9, 2005. The PDO is to support the Government of Peru's (GoP) efforts to
enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of historical, cultural and



                                                2

ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley, including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu
(HSMP) and the Sacred Valley of the Incas, through:

(i)      consultation with local stakeholders to establish a shared vision for the future of the
         Valley and to ensure that Project design and implementation reflect community priorities;
(ii)     capacity building of municipal government authorities, local communities, and the
         private sector in areas such as tourism, municipal financial management, urban service
         provision, disaster mitigation and local economic development;
(iii)    targeted infrastructure investments and provision of urban services; and
(iv)     capacity building in tourism services and management, and the providing of necessary
         tourism infrastructure, in compliance with key UNESCO World Heritage Sites
         guidelines.

5.    The Project is deemed to carry a global reputational risk for the Bank, and the proposed
Restructuring of the loan is intended to mitigate that risk. Presidents Toledo and Wolfensohn
conceived the Project in 2003 in response to UNESCO's warning that it might put Machu Picchu
and the Sacred Valley on its list of endangered World Heritage Sites. However, the country's
debt ceiling at the time limited the loan to US$ 5 million. To mitigate the risk posed by the
mismatch between the expectations raised by the Project and its insufficient resources, the
Restructuring refocuses the Project on strategic studies and investments aimed at leveraging other
resources, establishing the basis for future investments. This Project is a great opportunity for the
Bank, but it also carries significant risks. Given the heightened attention to Machu Picchu's
unique international and national cultural heritage value, the proposed restructuring will endeavor
to mitigate project risks through intensive supervision, capacity building and to ensure the highest
possible degree of achieving successful development outcome.

6.    The Project's implementation delays resulted largely from: (i) a nine-month legal dispute
after effectiveness with the national procurement agency, Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y
Adquisiciones del Estado (CONSUCODE), as to whether Bank or national procurement
procedures would apply1; (ii) a subsequent three-month freeze on all procurement processes
before the 2006 national elections; (iii) the complex nature of the original Project design, which
contemplated a large number of small sectoral subcomponents with different stakeholders; (iv)
MINCETUR's complex administrative procedures, coupled with its lack of experience
implementing infrastructure projects, especially externally-financed ones; and (v) MINCETUR's
attempt to implement the Project from Lima, with less than adequate human and material
resources. Furthermore, the original four-year Project implementation schedule appears in
retrospect to have been overly optimistic.

7.    Until the Implementation Status and Result Report (ISR) filed in May 2007, Project
progress towards the PDO had been rated "Moderately Satisfactory," and implementation
progress (IP), "Moderately Unsatisfactory." In December 2007, the Project was downgraded to
"Unsatisfactory", both in terms of PDO and IP. In addition to the reasons given above, the causes
of such unsatisfactory Project performance were: (a) an insufficiency of counterpart funds
available from MINCETUR; (b) an overly complex and ambitious Project design resulting in
lengthy procedures for MINCETUR regarding financial and procurement management; and (c) an
excessively centralized implementation structure and lack of relevant qualifications and
experience in the PIT and in other MINCETUR departments involved. In addition, evaluation of
Project performance was based on incomplete information regarding safeguards compliance and

1 The resolution of this issue involved a change in the law, which now establishes that the lender's procurement
procedures apply, regardless of the proportion of a project that is externally financed.



                                                         3

fiduciary responsibilities. At the time of Mid Term Review in June 2007, only about 3% of loan
proceeds had been disbursed. Since that time, implementation performance has greatly improved
due to staffing changes in the PIT, with disbursement having reached 30% by the end of Q1
FY09. As a result, the most recent ISR (June 2008) upgraded the overall implementation progress
to "Moderately Unsatisfactory".



C. PROPOSED CHANGES

8.     The proposed changes are a response to a joint request by MINCETUR and the GRC,
endorsed by MEF. The Vice Minister of Tourism and the President of the GRC explained to the
Task Team during the Mid Term Review that the request stemmed from an agreement between
the GRC and MINCETUR. This is well documented in the Aide Memoires of Bank missions in
June, July, September and November 2007, and July 2008. The Restructuring took more than a
year to process, due to the following: (i) the long process of consultations with Municipalities,
community representatives and other local stakeholders, the GoP and GRC over the course of
several Bank missions on the nature and extent of the proposed changes; (ii) the processing
within Peru, including the preparation of a new Proyecto de Inversión Pública (PIP) document
and its approval by the Sistema Nacional de Inversión Publica (SNIP) (MEF's economic analysis
tool); (iii) the preparation and clearance by the Bank of subsidiary agreements governing the
relationships between MEF and GRC and between MINCETUR and GRC; (iv) the need to
considerably strengthen the Project's safeguards frameworks and related legal covenants, which
had to be negotiated with the Borrower.

9.     The proposed changes involve: (a) transferring responsibility for the execution of several
Project subcomponents from MINCETUR to the GRC (as shown in Table I below); (b)
streamlining and simplifying Project implementation procedures; (c) reallocating funds among
disbursement categories to reflect modifications of certain Project subcomponents; (d) including
changes in the nature of certain subcomponents to better fit expected outcomes and available
funds (See Annex 1); (e) strengthening institutional counterpart capacity to manage Project
fiduciary and safeguards responsibilities, (f) creating additional accountability mechanisms by
introducing an inter-institutional Steering Committee; (g) modifying Project outcome indicators;
and (h) extending the Project closing date by 24 months. The extension of the closing date is
required to make up for delays due to the 12-month period during which the procurement process
was frozen (see paragraph 4 above), and to allow additional time for the GRC's executing agency
COPESCO to become familiar with Bank procedures.

10. COPESCO has 40 years' experience in project planning and implementation in the Cusco
Region, and has more recently begun to execute projects for governments in neighboring regions.
It was founded as a joint initiative between UNESCO and the GoP for the preservation and
enhancement of the historical, cultural and ecological assets of the Cusco Region and in particular
the Vilcanota Valley. Given COPESCO's unique expertise and experience with this kind of work,
the Project will introduce Force Account for implementation of works, to allow the agency to
carry out small and scattered preservation and restoration works in remote locations throughout
the Sacred Valley of the Incas.

11. In addition to the aforementioned changes, a Technical Feasibility Clearance Mechanism
(or triggers) has been identified in some subcomponents to comply with feasibility requirements.
The Steering Committee will review and ensure that prospected Project activities comply with
specific criteria and technical feasibility requirements, as detailed in Annex 2. The Committee -to



                                                 4

be officially established by the Borrower prior to the restructuring effectiveness date-                      will be
comprised of representatives of MEF, MINCETUR and COPESCO, with overall responsibility
for providing policy oversight and guidance for the implementation of the Project. Its powers are
defined in the Project's Operational Manual (OM). Among the responsibilities established for the
Committee are: (a) the provision of institutional support and of a coordination framework for the
implementation of the Project, (b) the establishment of strategic guidelines for the
implementation of the Project, including the review of the Project's annual operational plans, (c)
reviewing the overall progress and implementation of the Project by MINCETUR and
COPESCO, including a review of the Project's audits, (d) evaluating Project activities and
overseeing compliance with Project norms, feasibility studies and objectives, including the
analysis and consideration of those activities under the Project that may require pre-feasibility
studies, and (e) conducting the selection process of the Project Coordinators within MINCETUR
and COPESCO, following competitive selection procedures in accordance with the Bank's
consultant guidelines.

12. The main proposed changes in terms of reallocation of execution responsibilities and
components include:

Component I: Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development
     the addition of a subcomponent 1.2 for the design of a road and rail bypass around the
     historic town of Ollantaytambo2, which will include pre-feasibility and feasibility studies to
     be approved by the SNIP, as well as detailed engineering designs and bidding documents;

Component II: Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
     the solid waste subcomponent (2.5) will no longer include any works. It will include pre-
     feasibility and feasibility studies for the proposed solid waste management and disposal
     system, as well as detailed engineering designs and bidding documents. The pre-feasibility
     and feasibility studies are expected to be approved by the SNIP;

     the elimination of the activity originally proposed under Project subcomponent 2.4, Urban
     Upgrading in Machu Picchu Pueblo (MPP), since it is no longer desirable or feasible.
     Instead, this subcomponent will now focus on the design and implementation of an early
     warning system and other risk management measures, according to the findings of a
     comprehensive risk assessment in MPP. This study is being carried out by the University of
     Maryland, Baltimore County, through a US$230,000 grant provided by the Global Facility
     for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR). The objectives of the study are to examine
     geohazards around MPP, quantify the vulnerability of the town, develop an early warning
     system for flash floods and landslides and advise on a detailed risk management strategy.
     With the Restructuring, the resources available in subcomponent 2.4 of the Project will
     finance the execution of priority activities under this strategy.

13. The following table shows the proposed reallocation of Project subcomponents and
respective amounts between COPESCO and MINCETUR. The subcomponents in the Project
Procurement Plan are those shown in Schedule 2 of the proposed restructured Loan Agreement.
Under the original project design, MINCETUR was responsible for carrying out the
subcomponents now destined for execution by the GRC through COPESCO.


2Currently, 15-ton trucks, carrying agricultural produce and building materials to and from Quillabamba, pass directly
through the town's historic center, including the main square and Inca bridge, producing vibrations which are damaging
the only Inca stone dwellings that have been continuously occupied since Pre-Conquista times. The current location of
the railway station, near the town center, also generates congestion and undesirable traffic patterns.



                                                          5

Table 1. Reallocation of Project Subcomponents under the Restructured Loan Agreement

   Procurement              MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND                          Loan       Subcomponent
Plan Components                              TOURISM                             Agreement     total in US$
                                       MINCETUR / DNDT                           Schedule 2,
                                                                                   Parts:
1. Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development
        1.2           Detailed feasibility and engineering studies and
                      bidding documents for the construction of a road and          A 5          600,000
                      rail bypass around the historic town of Ollantaytambo
        1.7           A tourism awareness program for children and
                      communities                                                  A 4 (a)       160,094

        1.10          Production of Geotourism maps for visitors and local
                      residents, highlighting the history, culture and            A 4 (b)        291,524
                      attractions of the Vilcanota Valley
        1.13          Carrying capacity study for the Inca Trail
                                                                                  A 2 (d)        45,000

2. Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
        2.1           Preliminary assessment on regional solid waste
                      management to identify appropriate strategies and            B 1 (a)       91,016
                      investments
        2.2           Provision of financing to allow municipalities to fulfill
                      their obligations in relation to archaeological chance
                      find procedures for water and sanitation works in small       B 3          10,000

                      towns and rural communities
3. Local Economic Development (LED)
        3.2           Design, construction and provision of equipment for
                      community information and communication                       C 1          593,328
                      technology centers in selected municipalities
        3.3           Financing of LED subprojects through small grants for
                      beneficiaries in selected municipalities                      C 2          322,147

4. Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Development
        4.1           Strategic environmental assessment for the Vilcanota
                      Valley                                                        D 1          98,316

        4.3           Municipal capacity-building programs in municipal
                      finance, management of urban services and disaster            D 3          262,238
                      prevention
5. Project Management
        5.1           Project operations and management by Project
                      Implementation Team of MINCETUR (including
                      technical, administrative, legal, safeguards,                 E 1          859,137
                      communications, procurement and financial
                      management).

                                                                                  Subtotal      3,332,800

   Procurement        COPESCO                                                      Loan
 Plan Activities                                                                 Agreement    Subcomponent
                                                                                 Schedule 2,   total in US$
                                                                                   Parts:
1. Tourist Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development
        1.1           Pedestrian access to historic monuments in the
                      Vilcanota Valley (with the exception of the HSMP)           A 2 (b)        210,000

        1.4           Tourist services on the Inca Trail within the HSMP           A 2 (a)       310,000
        1.5           Signage system for historic monuments                        A 2 (c)       150,000
        1.6           Construction of Visitor Interpretation Centers                A 1          154,000




                                                          6

        1.11          Restoration and preservation of historically significant
                      architecture                                                A 3 (a)        240,000

        1.12          Restoration and preservation of historic agricultural
                      and hydraulic infrastructure                                A 3 (b)        400,000

2. Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
        2.3           Rehabilitation of existing urban storm drainage
                      systems in selected municipalities                            B 4          330,000

        2.4           Urban upgrading and disaster management in Machu
                      Picchu Pueblo                                                 B 2         1,093,428

        2.5           Detailed pre-feasibility and feasibility studies,
                      engineering designs and bidding documents for the
                      Vilcanota Valley's solid waste management and               B 1 (b)        790,000

                      disposal system
4. Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Development
    4.2 and 1.8       Municipal Land Use Plans for the municipalities of
                      Pisac, Calca, Urubamba, Ollantaytambo, Machu
                      Picchu, Chinchero and Santa Teresa; a Vilcanota          D 2 (a) and (b)   330,000
                      Valley Multiprovincial Territorial Plan and norms and
                      regulations for the above-mentioned municipalities3
        4.4           Municipal street address system in selected
                      municipalities within the Vilcanota Valley                  D 2 (c)        145,000

5. Project Management
        5.1           Project operations and management by Project
                      Coordination Unit (PCU) of COPESCO (including
                      technical, administrative, legal, safeguards,               E 2 (a)        468,490
                      communications, procurement and financial
                      management)
        5.3           Monitoring, evaluation and follow-up studies
                                                                                  E 2 (b)        100,000


                                                                                 Subtotal       4,720,918




3Original subcomponents 1.8, 4.2 and 4.4 were merged in the restructuring to include Land Use Plans, Norms and
Regulations and Street Addressing in one package.



                                                          7

SAFEGUARDS

14. Although the Project's Safeguard Category was originally rated B, during Restructuring it
has been upgraded to A. It should be noted that the restructured Project will have lower
environmental impacts than envisaged under the original Project design, due to the fact that many
subcomponents will now focus on studies and engineering designs rather than financing works.
This change is based on the realization, through consultations and work during the first phase of
the project, that the environmental and social sensitivity of the area warrants a Category "A"
rather than the "B" that was earlier assessed to be appropriate. The upgrade to Category "A" was
due not to the expected impacts of the proposed works, but rather to the great archeological,
historical and cultural significance of the Project area, which includes the HSMP, a UNESCO
World Heritage Site.

15. The Project area is located in the Vilcanota Valley, which encompasses the HSMP. In turn,
part of the Inca Trail, as well as the Machu Picchu Citadel, which contains the famed
archeological structures commonly referred to simply as Machu Picchu, are located within the
HSMP. No Project-financed works or activities will take place in the Machu Picchu Citadel
proper. Some of the Project's works and activities are focused on the nearby town of MPP, also
known as Aguas Calientes, which is also located in the HSMP.

16. With an A rating, the Project will be subject to correspondingly higher standards of
stakeholder consultation, analysis and disclosure. The safeguard policies on Natural Habitats (OP
4.04) and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) have been triggered under the Restructuring; these
policies were not triggered under the original project. The original Project had already triggered
the policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, now OP
4.11, Physical Cultural Resources). On the other hand, the policy on Involuntary Resettlement
(OP 4.12) is no longer triggered under the Restructuring, since all resettlement actions have been
eliminated, and a screening mechanism was developed to guard against any future resettlement
impacts. In summary, the following policies are triggered under the Restructuring:
         Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01);
         Natural Habitats (OP 4.04);
         Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10); and
         Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11).

17. The Restructuring has significantly reduced the Project's potential environmental and
social impacts. Certain originally planned works have been eliminated, and others replaced with
feasibility studies and engineering designs to prepare for future works to be executed with
adequate funding and implementation capacity. For example, the Project will no longer finance
construction of landfills, an activity which would require a great deal of environmental
supervision and for which the resources available under the Project were clearly not sufficient.
The Project will instead finance studies on how best to manage the Vilcanota Valley's solid
waste, as well as the pre-feasibility and feasibility work, engineering designs and bidding
documents deriving from such studies. Another activity under the original Project design, the
improvement of the road from Pisac to Ollantaytambo, was financed by other sources and was
eliminated altogether from the Project under the Restructuring.

18. Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). As the Project involves minor works, some
temporary low-level environmental impacts (noise, dust, construction waste, alteration of natural
drainage, etc.) are expected during construction. The client has prepared instruments (discussed
below) to manage these impacts in compliance with Bank Safeguards.



                                               8

19. Natural Habitats (OP 4.04). Although the Project will not significantly convert or adversely
impact any natural habitats, some minor works will be executed in or around the HSMP (a natural
protected area) or its buffer zone. Also, the Project area is located next to the Abra Malaga
Private Conservation Zone. The Environmental Framework for Minor Infrastructure Works
contains screening mechanisms to identify works in protected areas, and includes directions for
implementation to ensure that these activities will be carried out in accordance with the area's
environmental management plan.

20. Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10). Although this policy was not triggered under the original
Project, it has been activated under the Restructuring. As indigenous peoples have been
determined to constitute a majority of the affected population, however, no stand-alone
Indigenous Peoples instrument will be prepared for this Project. Rather, the policy's superior
standards of "free, prior and informed consultation," "social assessment," "culturally appropriate
benefits," and "broad community support" will apply to the entire Project in a blanket manner.
Specifically, the following principles will be taken into account in designing and implementation
of future Project actions:
     1) Free, prior and informed consultation. Consultation under the original Project was
          extensive,4 and the proposed Restructuring is itself the product of an ongoing process of
          consultation with diverse stakeholders.5 Adequate prior consultation, in accordance with
          OP 4.10, is one of the "technical feasibility clearance (trigger) requirements" for all
          subcomponents. As consultations under the original Project raised local expectations in
          ways that implementation failed to meet, new consultations will be undertaken with
          sensitivity, and carefully sequenced with the achievement of visible, concrete Project
          results on the ground.
     2) Social assessment. Social Assessment (SA) activities are currently underway.6
     3) Culturally appropriate benefits. Each financed activity will aim to ensure, via input from
          the two above-mentioned processes, that local stakeholders receive justly distributed and
          culturally appropriate benefits.
     4) Broad community support. This involves mechanisms and processes for the gauging of
          local responses ­ both positive and negative ­ to Project actions, and relying upon local
          decision-making and consensus-building means.7

21. As this is an ongoing project, these existing activities will be progressively strengthened
under the Restructuring, in reorienting the Project to explicitly respond to the requirements of the
policy. So far, MINCETUR and COPESCO have undertaken: (a) a review of the entire Project
consultation process to date; (b) an identification of all gaps with regard to the policy; (c) an


4This process included consultations with key stakeholders on the Project's environmental aspects. However, it was
also unsystematic, unevenly documented, and limited to certain activities (such as the Geotourism Map and the Ferias
de Desarrollo LED small grants program). The consultation process has now been documented, and a summary
disclosed, according to the Bank's standards.
5 This process, beginning in January, 2007, included consultation of the Strategic Environmental Assessment in
November and December of 2007, via conversations, interviews and participatory workshops in Sicuani, Urubamba,
Quillabamba and Cusco, with mayors, other city officials, NGOs and local residents (the results of these workshops are
recorded in the final SEA report). The TORs for the Ollantaytambo Bypass Road study were subjected to public
consultations in March 2008, along with multi-stakeholder discussions of the various safeguards aspects of the Project.
This process has also been documented and a summary disclosed according to the Bank's standards.
6 These include a public opinion poll, to establish baseline information on local stakeholders (e.g., a demographic
profile, communication needs and barriers), and a Stakeholder Engagement Plan, to identify key stakeholder groups
and build a regular, constructive dialogue with local communities and institutions.
7 These aspects are treated at greater length in the Indigenous Peoples Instrument disclosed by COPESCO,
MINCETUR and the Bank, as well as in the revised PEC, to be completed and disclosed as a "trigger" to the initiation
of any future works in the Project.



                                                        9

analysis of existing Project institutions and capacity with regard to application of the policy; and
(d) the development of a strategy for filling those gaps through existing, modified and or/newly
created institutional arrangements.

22. All consultation and social analysis activities related to safeguards compliance will be
under the responsibility of COPESCO, working in close collaboration with the Strategic
Communication Plan ("Plan de Comunicación Estratégica," or PEC), and with additional staff
and resources from the Project as necessary.8 To build on existing work, and avoid parallel
structures and redundant activities, COPESCO's safeguards specialists will develop, together
with MINCETUR's Communications Specialist, a joint strategy for strengthening and
complementing the PEC's existing activities with additional activities, and determining any
additional Project staff and financial resources that these modifications may require. Revision and
disclosure of the PEC, including this strategy and all other modifications related to OP 4.10, are
among the "technical feasibility clearance (trigger) requirements" for all subcomponents.

23. Instruments. The following safeguards instruments have been prepared and will be updated
for the restructured Project:
         An Environmental Framework for the Construction of Landfills was developed, to guide
         the design of a Regional Solid Waste Management System. Under the Restructuring,
         subcomponent 2.5, Studies for Solid Waste Management in the Vilcanota Valley, will
         only finance feasibility studies, engineering studies and preparation of bidding
         documents. Therefore, this framework will now be used to guide the development of
         feasibility studies and detailed engineering plans, as necessary, rather than works.
         An Environmental Framework for Minor Infrastructure Works was also developed to
         govern all other works in the Project, including: (i) a guide for the categorization of
         works (based on type and level of sensitivity, taking into account Bank safeguard
         policies); (ii) a fieldwork checklist to determine the potential social and environmental
         impacts of infrastructure works; and (iii) an environmental manual for infrastructure
         works (addressing site selection, norms for contractors engaged in construction activities,
         community information and outreach, supervision and monitoring, etc.). It also includes
         chance find procedures and other measures for managing works at archeological sites.
         A specific environmental assessment was also conducted for the Inca Trail--"Gestión
         Ambiental del Camino Inca a Machu Picchu" (December, 2003)--which includes
         proposals addressing key issues such as waste management. This will be a key input for,
         and will be complemented by, the planned study of the carrying capacity of the Inca Trail
         (subcomponent 1.13).
         The OM, which includes the above frameworks, and integrates environmental and social
         concerns into all phases of the Project.
         A regional Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), Project subcomponent 4.1, was
         completed and presented to stakeholders in August 2008. The SEA addresses the likely
         medium- to long-term environmental impacts in the Vilcanota Valley and HSMP from
         tourism, industrial activity, agriculture and related demographic and resource use
         patterns. It includes: (i) risk prevention and mitigation plans; (ii) natural resource
         management; (iii) economic and cultural activities; (iv) sustainable tourism development
         of the Vilcanota River Basin; and (v) a suggested program to resolve inter-institutional
         governance conflicts in the Basin. It specifically addresses the conservation of historical
         structures, works of art and other physical or intangible cultural assets (archeological
         sites, historic villages, sacred sites, living culture, museums and other aspects of the


8Funded through an initial US$ 90,000 grant from the Italian Government Culture and Sustainable Development Trust
Fund, the PEC is currently engaged in data collection activities.



                                                       10

        Vilcanota Valley cultural heritage), updating an inventory of cultural assets in the Valley
        (prepared in collaboration with INC), and policy recommendations for the protection of
        tangible and intangible cultural heritage resources. The urban and rural land use plans
        that will be developed for the municipalities of Machu Picchu, Ollantaytambo, Santa
        Teresa, Chinchero, Urubamba, Calca and Pisac under Project subcomponent 4.2 will be
        based on this SEA.

24. Disclosure. The environmental frameworks have been available on the Bank's website
since 2003 and 2004. MINCETUR has made the SEA available to the public in October, 2008.
The revised environmental frameworks will also be made available online through both the Bank
and the implementing agencies' websites. The updated PID, ISDS, and the relevant safeguards
Annexes of the Project Paper have been disclosed to the InfoShop in Washington. In addition,
Spanish language versions of these documents have been made available by the Borrower for
public review at convenient locations in Cusco and the Vilcanota Valley, as well as in the
MINCETUR and COPESCO websites. The same will be done when the revised environmental
frameworks become available. Such revised environmental frameworks, acceptable to the Bank,
are a disbursement condition for the works to be executed by COPESCO under the amended
Loan Agreement. Upon approval, the Project Paper will be disclosed in its entirety.

25. Institutional Arrangements and Capacity. Several modifications have been made under the
Restructuring in the Project's institutional arrangements that have significant safeguards
implications.

26. Under the Restructuring, COPESCO has assumed responsibility for safeguards compliance
in the Project. COPESCO's tasks will include: reviewing the restructured Project and existing
environmental frameworks to determine any gaps and propose any necessary additions or
revisions;
    (a) screening of all proposed works to ensure their compliance with the applicable
        Environmental Management Frameworks, the OM and safeguards policies, including
        involuntary resettlement.
    (b) screening potential works for resettlement and other safeguards compliance issues, and
        supervision responsibilities, as detailed in the environmental frameworks and OM;
    (c) reviewing all studies, technical plans and related ToRs to ensure their compliance with
        applicable Environmental Management Frameworks, Operations Manual and safeguards
        policies;
    (d) submitting all new or revised environmental frameworks, and environmental
        management plans for individual works (as necessary), to the Bank for no-objection; and
    (e) ensuring that the above-described standards of OP 4.10, on Indigenous Peoples, are
        properly and reasonably applied; and
    (f) any other safeguards supervision responsibilities as detailed in the environmental
        frameworks and OM.

27. In order to fulfill these obligations, COPESCO is currently in the process of hiring two
safeguards specialists (one for environmental and one for social safeguards), so as to develop the
necessary capacity to execute this and future Bank-financed operations (their ToRs are included
in the OM). Once hired, these specialists will be provided adequate safeguards training and
support, beginning with a series of workshops planned for December, 2008. Additional training
and support activities will be added as necessary.




                                               11

28. The Project Steering Committee, consisting of representatives of MEF, MINCETUR and
COPESCO, will be responsible for providing policy guidance and oversight to Project
implementation, including safeguards compliance, staffing and coordination, and submission of
all studies and plans for proposed works to the Bank for safeguards analysis and no-objection.
Upon completion of initial studies, the Steering Committee will select a small number of works to
be financed under the Project, based on factors including estimated budget and compliance with
safeguards screening criteria and other eligibility requirements. The Steering Committee's powers
and responsibilities are defined in the OM. 9

29. A new mechanism has been built into in the Loan Agreement, consisting of a "technical
feasibility clearance" (trigger, or gatillo), for particular sub-component categories, and including
the following set of "transversal" conditions, to be verified for all sub-project components
involving works (see Annex 1). Listed in the Operational Manual, the transversal conditions are:
     1) the screening out of all involuntary resettlement impacts, according to OP 4.12;
     2) the adequacy of free, prior and informed consultation, in accordance with OP 4.10;
     3) revision and disclosure of the PEC, once revised, in compliance with OP 4.10;
     4) prior to the start of works by COPESCO, an updated version of the Project's
         Environmental Management Framework (as reflected in the OM) for the restructured
         Project which has received Bank approval, must be in effect;
     5) prior disclosure of all relevant documents; and
     6) the existence of adequate capacity for safeguards implementation (i.e., the hiring of two
         safeguards specialists by COPESCO--one social and one environmental--and the start
         of their training activities).

30. All proposed works will be subject to prior review by the Steering Committee, to ensure
their compliance with these technical feasibility clearance requirements. The Bank will then
review and confirm compliance with the technical feasibility clearance requirements before
giving its no-objection. All Bank-financed studies must comply with Bank safeguards as
appropriate, regardless of whether the actual works deriving from such studies would be Bank-
financed or not.


D. ANALYSIS

31. The lessons learned over three years of implementation made it clear that project
implementation needs to follow a more effective division of roles and responsibilities in order to
achieve the proposed outcomes. This is the main objective of this Restructuring, which is
expected to enhance Project execution because of: (a) the GRC's high level of liquidity, due to
hydrocarbon and mining royalties, which is expected to ensure counterpart funds; (b) the GRC's
strong presence in the Vilcanota Valley and influence in the local municipalities; and (c)
COPESCO's implementation capacity and its experience in infrastructure and tourism related
projects.

32. A revision of the Project's Proyecto de Inversión Pública (PIP) document under the SNIP,
was conducted with the new information from the Restructuring, including the modification of
the subcomponents where applicable, the new Project closing date and the proposed institutional


9They include: (a) provision of institutional support and a coordination framework for Project implementation; (b)
establishment of strategic guidelines for the Project implementation, including review of annual operational plans, (c)
review of overall progress in Project implementation by MINCETUR and COPESCO (including a review of audits),
and (d) evaluation of Project activities and oversight of compliance with Project norms, feasibility studies and
objectives (including analysis and consideration of which Project activities might require pre-feasibility studies).



                                                       12

arrangements. The SNIP includes economic and financial analyses, a sensitivity analysis and a
review of sustainability arrangements. At a discount rate of 11%, the financial evaluation presents
a 31% IRR, while the economic evaluation shows a 34% IRR for the restructured Project,
indicating that it is both financially and economically viable.

33. Preparation for the proposed Restructuring has involved intensive stock-taking, including:
(i) a review of the original loan preparation safeguards instruments and fiduciary and economic
studies, including the SNIP; (ii) an assessment of COPESCO and MINCETUR's capacity to
undertake their proposed fiduciary and safeguards responsibilities; (iii) a review of stakeholder
consultations already undertaken and analysis of future consultation needs; and (iv) a review of
the institutional relationships and responsibilities with regard to FM, procurement and safeguards.

PROCUREMENT

34. A review of Procurement procedures led by the Project's then Procurement Specialist,
Evelyn Villatoro, was carried out on April 14, 2008. At the time, the Project was classified for
Procurement as Moderately Satisfactory.

35. The review was conducted on a sample of contracts selected from a list submitted by the
PIT. The list contained thirty-eight (38) contracts funded by the Loan Agreement, seven (7) of
which were subject to "prior review" while thirty one (31) were not. As the Project was in the
process of restructuring, the review focused solely on Component 1, which was the only activity
recorded during the review period.

36. The Bank team reviewed the implementation capacity of the PIT and noted the following:

         The PIT is adequately staffed and adheres to the organizational structure defined in the
         OM. It was evident that Procurement processes are systematized and that documentation
         is well organized, thorough, securely kept and easily accessed.
         Most risks or problems relating to Procurement have been mitigated by (i) the hiring of a
         specialist trained in Procurement, and (ii) attendance of a Bank-offered training course
         for Procurement staff in Lima in March 2008.
         The results of the review were moderately satisfactory, as it was evident that Procurement
         processes are in compliance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. However,
         procurement activity has not been particularly active, and consisted of small-scale
         contracts only.
         Of the contracts selected for review, one was above the threshold amount defined in the
         Loan Agreement, i.e. Contract No. 17-2007/BIRF 00/00/2007 "Geo Tourism Guide Maps
         and Related Services". This contract was awarded to National Geographic Society under
         sole source recruitment. The file was reviewed and the Bank team found that all
         appropriate steps and justifications for this contract were well documented.
         The thirty eight (38) contracts reviewed were included in the Procurement Plans for the
         periods March-December 2006 and January-December 2007 (which had been approved
         via No Objection in November 2007).
         While it was found that Procurement staff were familiar with Bank Procurement
         guidelines, they expressed some doubts in regards to some practical aspects of
         Procurement. In response, a week-long working session with Bank Procurement
         Specialist Francisco Rodriguez was held in May 2008.
         Prior to the effectiveness of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement, it will be necessary
         for MINCETUR to submit an updated Procurement Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which



                                                13

         consolidates both MINCETUR's and COPESCO's activities under the proposed
         Restructuring.


FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

37. As part of the preparation process for Project restructuring, a financial management
assessment for the new implementing entity, COPESCO, has been undertaken, in accordance
with OP/BP 10.02 and the FM Manual "Financial Management Practices in World Bank
Financed Investment Operations." The objective of the assessment was to determine whether
COPESCO has the capacity to properly manage and account for Project activities transferred to
COPESCO under the new implementation arrangements and to produce timely, accurate and
reliable financial information for general and special purposes.

38. In addition to the FM assessment of COPESCO, and to complement the restructuring
process, an FM supervision mission was undertaken in May 2008, to evaluate the continuing
adequacy of the financial management arrangements under the current implementing entity,
MINCETUR. As a result of the mission, the FM team concluded that, although there has been
progress in the FM arrangements (in terms of staff rotation, internal controls, compliance with
submission of interim financial reports, and submission of audit reports for the period 2006),
there are still improvements to be adopted in order to achieve the desired results and ensure that
resources are being used for the intended purposes. For this reason, the FM ISR rating assigned to
the Project after the mission was Moderately Satisfactory. This rating will be revised in the near
future, once the new implementation arrangements are in place and progress has been assessed
for both implementing entities (MINCETUR and COPESCO).



E. EXPECTED OUTCOMES

39. As noted in Section D, the proposed changes do not affect the PDO, which is to support the
GoP's efforts to enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of its historical,
cultural and ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley.

40. Overall Project implementation and, in particular, the rate of disbursements are expected to
improve significantly once the Restructuring is finalized. The proposed reformulated outcome
indicators and target dates will be incorporated into Schedule 7 of the restated Loan Agreement
(see Annex 3). Outcomes will be monitored using the updated Project baseline.

41. Involvement of the GRC in the Project is expected to leverage a number of additional
investments by the central, regional and local governments beyond the scope of the Project. In
this connection, the GRC has already agreed to finance some key investments arising from
Project subcomponents. Among such infrastructure investments are the financing of part of the
construction of the Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass in partnership with the Ministry of
Transport and the Ollantaytambo municipal government, and the implementation of the solid
waste management and disposal system for the Vilcanota Valley.

42. Other minor investments are expected to be mobilized, such as façade enhancement by
homeowners to fit traditional architectural patterns, after the municipal building codes are drafted
and approved; and investments in urban infrastructure and service delivery as a result of the urban
planning, street addressing and municipal capacity building components of the Project. It is also



                                              14

expected that the Geotourism Guide being prepared by National Geographic could lead to
tourism-related investments in poor rural communities, as well as increasing the Valley's
international visibility, which could foster strategic alliances with National Parks in other
countries for knowledge exchange.



F.     BENEFITS AND RISKS

43. The proposed changes are intended to improve Project implementation on three fronts: (i)
strengthening of implementation capacity at the central and regional government levels; (ii)
simplification and streamlining of implementation procedures; and (iii) leveraging of counterpart
funds. The Team expects to address these challenges by involving the regional and national
governments in the implementation of the subcomponents in Table 1, under the enhanced
coordination and accountability that will be brought about by the creation of the Steering
Committee. There are, however, some risks involved in the introduction of COPESCO as
executing agency for the regional government. These are primarily related to COPESCO's lack of
familiarity with Bank procurement, financial and safeguards procedures, and its possible effects
on Project implementation within the revised time frame. To mitigate this risk, i) a draft OM has
been prepared, based on the procurement and financial management assessment of COPESCO
undertaken by Task Team and, ii) COPESCO has participated in a procurement and financial
management training with Bank fiduciary specialists. A follow-up Plan for COPESCO and
MINCETUR on fiduciary responsibilities has been developed and its adoption is one of the
proposed Amendment's effectiveness conditions.

44. As the Restructuring entails transferring the implementation of a significant number of
components to the GRC, agreements between the GRC and the other institutions involved, such
as MEF in the case of the Convenio de Traspaso de Recursos, and MINCETUR in the case of the
Convenio Subsidiario, are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Amendment. The GRC,
MINCETUR and MEF have yet to sign these covenants, but final versions of both agreements,
approved by all parties, already exist, and signing is expected to take place as soon as the
Amendment Letter is signed.

45. The Project was not in the Country Assistance Strategy, and the country's debt ceiling
limited the loan to US$ 5 million, when at least five times that amount would have been
necessary. To mitigate the risk posed by the mismatch between the expectations raised by the
Project and its insufficient resources, the Restructuring refocuses the Project on strategic studies
and investments aimed at leveraging other resources, establishing the basis for future investments.
The proposed Restructuring also focuses on delivering key results on the ground to maintain trust
and encourage the counterparts to continue working towards those future investments.

46. As mentioned above, the Project is deemed to carry a global reputational risk for the Bank,
and the proposed Restructuring of the loan is intended to mitigate that risk. The central issue in
this connection is the small size and poor implementation of the loan in comparison to the
Vilcanota Valley's needs and the unabated growth of tourism. Presidents Toledo and Wolfensohn
conceived the Project in 2003 to address UNESCO's warning that it might put Machu Picchu and
the Sacred Valley on its list of endangered World Heritage Sites. The underlying cause of the
sites' decline was the dramatic increase in tourism traffic, which has doubled in the past decade,
to almost one million visitors annually. The Valley's population has correspondingly increased,
due to the arrival of migrants from around the country, with no roots in the local culture and often
no knowledge of Quechua.



                                              15

47. Tourism in the Vilcanota Valley continues to grow rapidly, with more than 80% of visitors
entering the country coming exclusively to visit Cusco and Machu Picchu, a trend likely to
accelerate with Machu Picchu's 2007 election as one of the new Seven Wonders of the World.
UNESCO's World Heritage Committee, in its latest meeting, held on July 10, 2008, declared
grave concerns over governance of the site and noted urgent problems with deforestation, the risk
of landslides, and uncontrolled urban development. The Committee has asked that "reinforced
monitoring" be applied to four properties on UNESCO's World Heritage List, including Machu
Picchu. The Bank has a major role to play in mitigating some of the issues raised by UNESCO,
through close monitoring and supervision of the Project, and using its convening power to
involve other key players. This is a great opportunity for the Bank, but it also carries significant
risks. There is heightened attention being devoted to Machu Picchu and the Vilcanota Valley,
both by the international community and the Peruvian public. The key aim of the proposed
Restructuring is precisely to work towards mitigating project risks through intensive supervision,
capacity building and to ensure the highest possible degree of achieving successful development
outcome.




                                             16


       Annex 1 ­ Reformulation of Project Sub Components and Technical Feasibility Clearance Requirements (Triggers)




  Component   Component / activity      Responsible Party               Goals                  Amount per         Technical Feasibility Clearance
                                                                                                Goal (US$)            Requirements (Triggers)                Date

                                                                                                                Decision: Works will be selected

                                                          a. Study on Pedestrian Access in                      based on the budgets presented in

                                                          San Juan - Yucay                                      the studies

                                                          b. Study on Pedestrian Access in                      Requirement: 4 approved studies

                                                          Chillca - CA Cusichaca -                              Selection Criteria: Works will be

                                                          Ollantaytambo                                         selected based on the budget

             Pedestrian access to                         c Study on Pedestrian Access in                       presented in the engineering studies.

             historic monuments in                        nevados de Pitusiray, Sahuasiray   Study: 18,979      If the budget were not sufficient to  15 months after

1.1          the Vilcanota Valley       PER COPESCO ­     y Maquimaqui en el VS - Calca                         fully implement any of the works,     signature of

             (with the exception of the CRG               d. Study on Pedestrian Access in   Works: 191,021     the one which poses most progress     Restated Loan

             Citadel)                                     Nevado Chicón - Urubamba                              within the limited budget will be     Agreement
                                                                                                                selected.

                                                          e. Works to Pedestrian Paths                          Responsible Party: Steering

                                                          selected by the Steering                              Committee for PIP (composed of

                                                          Committee based on the above-                         MINCETUR, COPESCO, MEF)

                                                          mentioned studies                                     Communication: Decision will be
                                                                                                                communicated to MEF (DGPM and
                                                                                                                DNEP)
                                                          This activity has been eliminated

1.3          Improvement of Pisac-                        because it has been executed by
             Ollantaytambo road                           another public entity (CRG - PER   -----------------  -----------------                     -----------------

                                                          COPESCO)


1.8          Zonning and building                         This activity has been
             codes                                        incorporated into 4.2              -----------------  -----------------                     -----------------


             Communication                                This activity has been eliminated
1.9          campaigns on the history
             and culture of the                           because the objective is being     -----------------  -----------------                     -----------------

             Andean people                                carried out under activity 1.7

                                                          a. Engineering studies for Huchuy                     Decision: Selection of works based
                                                          Qosqo                                                 on the estimated costs assigned in
             Restoration and                              b. Engineering studies for         Engineering        the technical studies. Requirement:   15 months after

1.11         preservation of            PER COPESCO --    Canchis Pujio - Calca              Studies: 22,239    3 engineering studies approved        signature of
             historically-significant   CRG               c. Engineering studies for Cocha                      Selection Criteria: Works will be     Restated Loan
             architecture                                 Suntur-Valle del Chicón            Works: 217,761     selected based on the budget          Agreement
                                                                                                                presented in the engineering studies.
                                                          d. Restoration and preservation of                    If the budget were not sufficient to




                                                                         17

       Annex 1 ­ Reformulation of Project Sub Components and Technical Feasibility Clearance Requirements (Triggers)




  Component   Component / activity      Responsible Party                Goals                 Amount per       Technical Feasibility Clearance
                                                                                                Goal (US$)          Requirements (Triggers)                Date

                                                          architectural structures selected                   fully implement any of the works,
                                                          by the Steering Committee based                     the one which poses most progress
                                                          on the results of preliminary                       within the limited budget will be
                                                          research and technical studies.                     selected. Responsible Party:
                                                                                                              Steering Committee for PIP
                                                                                                              (composed of MINCETUR,
                                                                                                              COPESCO, MEF)
                                                                                                              Communication: Decision will be
                                                                                                              communicated to MEF (DGPM and
                                                                                                              DNEP)
                                                          a. Engineering studies for
                                                          restoration of the inca terraces de                 Decision: Selection of works based

                                                          Patapata - Písac - Calca                            on the estimated costs assigned in

                                                          b. Engineering studies for                          the technical studies.

                                                          restoration of inca terraces and                     Requirement: 4 technical studies

                                                          adoratorio inca - Urco - Calca                      approved

                                                          c. Engineering studies for                          Selection criteria: Works will be

                                                          restoration of the prehispanic                      selected based on the budget

             Restoration and                              channel Quebrada de Chichón -       Engineering     presented in the engineering studies.
                                                                                                              If the budget were not sufficient to  15 months after

1.12         preservation of            PER COPESCO ­     Urubamba                            Studies: 36,250                                       signature of
             agricultural and           CRG               d. Engineering studies for                          fully implement any of the works,     Restated Loan
             hydraulic infrastructure                     restoration of the inca channel of  Works: 363,750  the one which poses most progress     Agreement
                                                          river Tullumayo - Urubamba                          within the limited budget will be
                                                                                                              selected.

                                                          e. Restoration and preservation of                  Responsible Party: Steering

                                                          hydraulic, agricultural and                         Committee for PIP (composed of

                                                          architectural structures selected                   MINCETUR, COPESCO, MEF)

                                                          by the Steering Committee based                     Communication: Decision will be

                                                          on the results of preliminary                       communicated to MEF (DGPM and

                                                          research and technical studies.                     DNEP)

                                                          This activity will end with the
                                                          termination of the contract, which
             Preliminary assessment                       is currently under arbitration due
             on regional solid waste                      to non-compliance with              Maximum
2.1          management to identify     EIP MINCETUR      deliverables by the consultant.     expected cost:: -----------------                     -----------------
             appropriate strategies and                   The objective of this activity will 91,016
             investments                                  be fulfilled by activity 2.5,
                                                          Studies on Solid Waste
                                                          Management in the Vilcanota




                                                                          18

       Annex 1 ­ Reformulation of Project Sub Components and Technical Feasibility Clearance Requirements (Triggers)




  Component   Component / activity     Responsible Party                Goals                   Amount per      Technical Feasibility Clearance
                                                                                                Goal (US$)           Requirements (Triggers)                Date

                                                         Valley.




                                                                                                               Decision: Selection of works based
                                                                                                               on the land slide risk assessment

                                                         a. Installation of Early Warning                      Selection Criteria: The study on

                                                         System                                                landslide risk assessment in the
                                                                                                               Vilcanota Valley that is being

                                                         b. Execution of Disaster                              undertaken by the University of

                                                         Management and Risk Reduction                         Maryland, will propose an early

                                                         Activities                                            warning system and other mitigation
                                                                                                               works. The results of this study will

                                                         This subcomponent originally                          determine:

                                                         included the resettlement of 60                       (1) Estimated costs for the

                                                         families in MPP, but this activity                    installation of an early warning

             Urban upgrading and                         is no longer feasible given the                       system and feasibility studies        12 months after

2.4          disaster management in    PER COPESCO --    following reasons: (i) There is no   1,093,428        (2) Estimated costs for mitigation    signature of

             Machu Picchu Pueblo       CRG               available land in MPP for                             Works and feasibility studies. .      Restated Loan

                                                         resettlement; (ii) The families live                  Requirement (1) Landslide risk        Agreement

                                                         in consolidated houses and they                       assessment completed by the

                                                         don't want to be resettled; (iii)                     University of Maryland by May 09.

                                                         There is no political will to                         (2) Urban Plan for MPP will take

                                                         undertake this action; (iv) The                       into account the results of the

                                                         families to be resettled were                         landslide risk assessment and

                                                         selected without a comprehensive                      prioritize mitigation works

                                                         study and there are other families                    Responsible Party: Steering

                                                         in high risk areas in MPP.                            Committee for PIP (composed of
                                                                                                               MINCETUR, COPESCO, MEF)
                                                                                                               Communication: Decision will be
                                                                                                               communicated to MEF (DGPM and
                                                                                                               DNEP)
             Detailed pre feasibility
             and feasibility studies,                                                         (This activity
                                                                                              will be executed
2.5          engineering and bidding   PER COPESCO --    a. Feasibility Study
             documents identified in   CRG               b. Detailed Engineering Plans        by one           -----------------                     -----------------

             the regional solid waste                                                         consultant)

             management study                                                                 790,000




                                                                         19

       Annex 1 ­ Reformulation of Project Sub Components and Technical Feasibility Clearance Requirements (Triggers)




  Component    Component / activity     Responsible Party                Goals                 Amount per        Technical Feasibility Clearance
                                                                                               Goal (US$)            Requirements (Triggers)               Date

                                                          This activity does not have a goal
                                                          as it has been eliminated.
                                                          Currently, private operators offer
                                                          this service in the Valley.

             Capacity building                            Amongst such operators is

3.1          program for tourism                          DIRCETUR Cusco, which has          3,200             -----------------                    -----------------
             service providers                            sufficient resources to execute
                                                          this activity.
                                                          The cost/amount noted here
                                                          corresponds to a contract under
                                                          which the TOR's were created
                                                          prior to the PIP reformulation.
                                                                                                               Requirement: Approved municipal
                                                                                                               street address system for 7 urban
                                                                                                               areas (Machu Picchu, Calca, Santa
                                                                                                               Teresa, Urubamba, Pisac,
                                                                                                               Ollantaytambo, y Chinchero). The
                                                                                                               design of the system is a product of

                                                          a. Satellite Images of the         Satellite Images: activity 4.2.

             Municipal street address                     Vilcanota Valley                   49,813            Decision: Selection of the urban
                                                                                                               areas where the street address       12 months after

4.4          system in the selected     PER COPESCO --                                                                                              signature of
             municipalities within the  CRG               b. Installation of street address  Municipal street  system will be implemented.          Restated Loan
             Vilcanota Valley                             system in three (3) district or    address system:   Selection Criteria: Urban areas will Agreement
                                                          provincial capital municipalities  145,000           be selected based on the budgets
                                                                                                               presented in the study.
                                                                                                               Responsible Party: Steering
                                                                                                               Committee for PIP (composed of
                                                                                                               MINCETUR, COPESCO, MEF)
                                                                                                               Communication: Decision will be
                                                                                                               communicated to MEF (DGPM and
                                                                                                               DNEP)
             Project operations and
             management by Project                                                           EIP
             Implementation Team of     EIP MINCETUR and  a. EIP MINCETUR                    MINCETUR:

5.1          MINCETUR (including                          Administrative Expenses            875,167
             technical, administrative, PER COPESCO --    b. PER COPESCO                     PER               -----------------                    -----------------

             procurement and            CRG               Administrative Expenses            COPESCO:
             financial management).                                                          468,490




                                                                           20

          Annex 1 ­ Reformulation of Project Sub Components and Technical Feasibility Clearance Requirements (Triggers)




  Component        Component / activity     Responsible Party                Goals             Amount per     Technical Feasibility Clearance
                                                                                                Goal (US$)        Requirements (Triggers)            Date

                 Project operations and
                 management by Project
                 Coordination Unit of
                 COPESCO (including
                 technical, administrative,
                 procurement and
                 financial management).


5.3              Impact Evaluation          PER COPESCO --
                 System                     CRG                a. Baseline of PIP             100,000       -----------------                 -----------------



   To ensure compliance with feasibility and safeguards requirements, a mechanism has been included in the Loan Agreement, consisting of a
   "technical feasibility clearance" (trigger or gatillo), for particular sub-component categories. The Steering Committee will review all proposed
   works to ensure that the proposed activities comply with these conditions before authorizing works. The Bank will also review compliance with
   the triggers before giving its no-objection. In addition to the technical feasibility clearance requirements listed in the chart above, the following
   conditions will apply to all sub-components involving works and/or studies for future works:
               1) screening out of all involuntary resettlement, according to OP 4.12;
               2) adequacy of consultation, according to OP 4.10;
               3) revision and disclosure of the PEC, once revised, in compliance with OP 4.10;
               4) prior to the start of works, an updated version of the Environmental Management Framework as reflected in the OM for the
                   restructured Project which has received Bank approval, must be in effect;
               5) prior disclosure of all relevant documents; and
               6) existence of adequate capacity for safeguards (i.e., the hiring of two safeguards specialists by COPESCO--one social and one
                    environmental--and the start of their training activities).




                                                                              21


                               Annex 2 ­ Reformulation and Reallocation of funds for Project Sub Components




                                                                                     Before         Proposed      Subject to

Component # Executing                                                                                             Technical
             Agency                    Sub Component / Activity                    (US Dollars )   (US Dollars )  Feasibility            Notes

                                                                                                                  Clearance

  1. Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development

   1.1      COPESCO      Pedestrian access to historic monuments in the
                         Vilcanota Valley (with exception of the Sanctuary)          210,000          210,000         x

                                                                                                                              Formerly known as "Acceso
   1.2      MINCETUR     Feasibility Studies and Engineering Designs for
                         Ollantaytambo Road and Rail Bypass                          210,000          600,000                 Tambuchaca ­ Estación
                                                                                                                              Ollanta ­ Km 4"
                         Restoration of bridges on the Pisac-Ollantaytambo
   1.3                   highway -- Mejoramiento de obras de arte Eje Vial           210,000
                         Pisac-Ollantaytambo                                                                                  ELIMINATED
   1.4      COPESCO      Tourist Services on the Inca Trail within the Sanctuary     310,000          310,000
                                                                                                                              Formerly known as "Sistema
                                                                                                                              de Señalización de

   1.5      COPESCO      Signage system for historic monuments in Pisac and                                                   Monumentos, Camino Inca y
                         Ollantaytambo                                               150,000          150,000                 Valle Sagrado"; activities
                                                                                                                              redefined but not line item
                                                                                                                              amount
   1.6      COPESCO      Construction of Visitor Interpretation Centers              230,000          154,000

   1.7      MINCETUR     Tourism awareness program for children and
                         community                                                   160,000          160,094

   1.8                   Zoning Code and Municipal Regulation Program --                                                      ABSORBED BY
                         Programa de Programa de Reglamento y Normatividad           125,000
                                                                                                                              SUBCOMPONENT 4.2

   1.9                   Program on Rediscovery of Cultural Identity --
                         Programa de Revaloración de la Identidad Cultural           125,000
                                                                                                                              ELIMINATED
                         Production of Geotourism maps for visitors and local
  1.10.     MINCETUR     residents, highlighting the history and culture of the      225,000          291,524
                         Vilcanota Valley

  1.11      COPESCO      Restoration and preservation of historically-significant
                         architecture                                                240,000          240,000         x




                                                                                22

                                 Annex 2 ­ Reformulation and Reallocation of funds for Project Sub Components




                                                                                      Before         Proposed      Subject to

Component #  Executing                                                                                             Technical
              Agency                     Sub Component / Activity                   (US Dollars )   (US Dollars )  Feasibility              Notes

                                                                                                                   Clearance

  1.12       COPESCO       Restoration and preservation of historic agricultural
                           and hydraulic infrastructure                               300,000          400,000

  1.13      MINCETUR       Carrying Capacity study for the Inca Trail                 45,000            45,000                 Formerly known as "Plan de
                                                                                                                               Uso Turístico del SHMP"

                                                 COMPONENT 1 SUBTOTAL:               2,540,000        2,560,618

  2. Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation

                           Preliminary assessment on regional solid waste
   2.1      MINCETUR       management to identify appropriate strategies and          100,000           91,016
                           investments


                           Provision of financing to allow municipalities to carry
                           out their PRONASAR obligations in relation to
   2.2      MINCETUR       archaeological chance find procedures assessment for       150,000           10,000                 This subcomponent has been

                           sustainable water and sanitation in small towns and                                                 100% executed

                           rural communities


                                                                                                                               Formerly known as "EIA y
                                                                                                                               estudios de ingeniería de
                                                                                                                               detalle de la ampliación de
   2.3       COPESCO       Rehabilitation of existing urban storm drainage
                           systems in selected municipalities                         330,000          330,000                 sistemas de agua potable,
                                                                                                                               desagüe, alcantarillado e
                                                                                                                               inversiones para el desagüe
                                                                                                                               pluvial urbano".

                                                                                                                               Two activities were
                                                                                                                               eliminated: resettlement and
   2.4       COPESCO       Urban upgrading and disaster mitigation in Machu
                           Picchu Pueblo                                             1,170,000        1,093,428                work related to the Collpani
                                                                                                                               Bridge, which was completed
                                                                                                                               by the municipality.




                                                                                 23

                                 Annex 2 ­ Reformulation and Reallocation of funds for Project Sub Components




                                                                                      Before         Proposed      Subject to

Component #    Executing                                                                                           Technical
                Agency                    Sub Component / Activity                  (US Dollars )   (US Dollars )  Feasibility              Notes

                                                                                                                   Clearance
                           Detailed feasibility study and engineering designs for                                              Formerly known as "Programa

   2.5        COPESCO      the implementation of strategies and investments                                                    de Residuos Sólidos del Valle
                           identified in the regional solid waste management         1,300,000         790,000                 de Vilcanota"
                           study

                                                  COMPONENT 2 SUBTOTAL:              3,050,000        2,314,444

  3. Local Economic Development
                           Training Program for Tourism Service Providers --
   3.1       MINCETUR      Programa de Capacitación a Prestadores de Servicios        160,000           2,969
                           Turísticos                                                                                          ELIMINATED

   3.2       MINCETUR      Design, construction and provision of equipment for
                           community telecenters in selected municipalities           502,500          593,328

   3.3       MINCETUR      Financing of LED projects through Small Grants for
                           Beneficiaries in selected municipalities                   300,000          322,147

                                                 COMPONENT 3 SUBTOTAL:                962,500          918,444

  4. Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Development
                                                                                                                               This subcomponent has been
   4.1       MINCETUR      Strategic environmental assessment for the Vilcanota
                           Valley                                                     100,000           98,316                 100% executed


                           Municipal Territorial Plans to be adopted by the                                                    This line item represents

                           municipalities of Pisac, Calca, Urubamba,                                                           expenditures under

             MINCETUR      Ollantaytambo, Machu Picchu, Chinchero and Santa           124,000           16,238                 MINCETUR prior to the

                           Teresa; and a Vilcanota Valley Multi provincial                                                     Restructuring; the execution of

   4.2                     Territorial Plan of the above-mentioned municipalities                                              the subcomponent is being
                                                                                                                               transferred to COPESCO
                           Multi provincial Territorial and Zoning Plans and
                           Municipal Territorial Plans to be adopted by the
              COPESCO      municipalities of Pisac, Calca, Urubamba,                                   330,000         x
                           Ollantaytambo, Machu Picchu, Chinchero and Santa
                           Teresa




                                                                                 24

                              Annex 2 ­ Reformulation and Reallocation of funds for Project Sub Components




                                                                                   Before         Proposed      Subject to

Component #    Executing                                                                                        Technical
                Agency                 Sub Component / Activity                  (US Dollars )   (US Dollars )  Feasibility              Notes

                                                                                                                Clearance
                         Municipal capacity-building programs in municipal
    4.3       MINCETUR   finance, management of urban services and disaster        300,000          262,238
                         prevention
                                                                                                                            This line item represents
                                                                                                                            expenditures under

              MINCETUR   Aerial Satellite Photography                              500,000         49,813                   MINCETUR prior to the
    4.4                                                                                                                     Restructuring ; the execution
                                                                                                                            of the subcomponent is being
                                                                                                                            transferred to COPESCO

               COPESCO   Municipal street address system in the selected
                         municipalities within the Vilcanota Valley                                 145,000         x

                                               COMPONENT 4 SUBTOTAL:              1,024,000         901,605
5. Project Management
    5.1       MINCETUR   Project Administration and Management                     520,000          859,137
    5.1        COPESCO   Project Administration and Management                                      468,490
    5.2       MINCETUR   Auditors' Fees -- Consultoría de Control (Auditorías)     78,238            52,338

    5.3        COPESCO   Monitoring , evaluation and follow-up studies --                                                   Subcomponent did not exist
                         Sistema de Evaluación de Impactos del Proyecto              0              100,000
                                                                                                                            prior to Restructuring

                                               COMPONENT 5 SUBTOTAL:               598,238         1,504,865


                                                           FRONT END FEE:          24,900            24,900


                                                                       TOTAL:     8,200,000        8,200,000




                                                                              25

                                                            Annex 3. Updated Results Framework
                                              Project Development Objective and Outcome Indicators


                        PDO                                                Outcome Indicators                       Use of Outcome Information
  Support the Government of Peru's efforts to               Improved inter-institutional coordination      The proposed outcome indicators measure
  enhance the environmental and socio-                      amongst MINCETUR, COPESCO and the              improvement of Government capacity at all
  economic sustainability of historical, cultural           Municipalities of the Vilcanota Valley to      levels. A satisfactory outcome would lend
  and ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley             manage historical, cultural and ecological     credibility to the requests for further support
  including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu                 assets in the Vilcanota Valley measured by:    that are coming to the World Bank Group,
  Picchu (HSMP) and the Sacred Valley of the                (1) the adoption by the Municipalities of the  especially from the Regional Government of
  Incas                                                     planning tools generated by the Project; (2) a Cusco, and could open the way to
                                                            Memorandum of Understanding signed to          consideration of Bank involvement in future
  (this is the original PDO, which is being                 finance the construction of the Ollantaytambo  efforts to manage and enhance the Valley's
  maintained under the restructuring)                       road and rail bypass and the solid waste       assets.
                                                            collection and disposal system.

                                                            Feasibility Studies approved by MEF
                                                            according to SNIP requirements for the
                                                            Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass and the
                                                            construction of a solid waste collection and
                                                            disposal system10.
  Intermediate Results: One per Component                   Results Indicators for Each Component          Use of Results Monitoring
  Component One
  Tourism Capacity Building and                             Feasibility study approved by SNIP and         Achievement of the results envisaged for this
  Infrastructure Development                                engineering designs for a road and rail bypass component would signal an improvement in
                                                            around the historic town of Ollantaytambo      management of key assets and prepare the
  MOU signed between local (Municipality of                                                                ground for crucial investments to be
  Ollantaytambo), regional (GRC/COPESCO)                    Number of historic architectural, agricultural undertaken in future in partnership by the
  and national institutions (MEF, MTC,                      and hydrological structures restored           three levels of Government. A satisfactory
  MINCETUR) for the construction of a road                                                                 performance of this component, as measured
  and rail bypass in Ollantaytambo                          Signage system for archaeological sites in     by the proposed indicators, would lend
                                                            Pisac and Ollantaytambo in place               credibility to requests for further support and
                                                                                                           could open the way to consideration of Bank
                                                            Interpretation centers built and operating in  involvement in future efforts to manage and


10SNIP is the MEF system for vetting and approving all publicly-financed investments.




                                                                                  26

                                                Annex 3. Updated Results Framework
                                        Project Development Objective and Outcome Indicators


                                                Ollantaytambo and Urubamba                    enhance the Valley's assets



Component Two
Urban Services and Infrastructure               Solid waste study approved by SNIP and        Achievement of the results envisaged for this
Rehabilitation                                  proposal for solid waste management system    component would signal an improvement in
                                                in the Vilcanota Valley, complete with        management of key assets and prepare the
MOU signed between COPESCO and                  engineering designs                           ground for crucial investments to be
Municipalities for the construction of a                                                      undertaken in future in partnership by the
regional landfill and/or other solid waste      Early warning system installed and operating  three levels of Government. A satisfactory
management facilities to be financed by         in Machu Picchu Pueblo                        performance of this component, as measured
COPESCO                                                                                       by the proposed indicators, would lend
                                                                                              credibility to requests for further support and
                                                                                              could open the way to consideration of Bank
                                                                                              involvement in future efforts to manage and
                                                                                              enhance the Valley's assets
Component Three
Local Economic Development (LED)                Number of community projects still            Achievement of the results envisaged for this
                                                functioning at the end of the Project         component would signal an improvement in
Small grants awarded to at least 40                                                           Government capacity to support local
community projects                              Number of telecenters operating at the end of economic development. A satisfactory
                                                the Project                                   performance of this component, as measured
                                                                                              by the proposed indicators, would lend
                                                                                              credibility to requests for further support and
                                                                                              could open the way to consideration of Bank
                                                                                              involvement in future efforts to promote LED
                                                                                              in the Valley's municipalities
Component Four
Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity       Number of municipal urban land use plans      Achievement of the results envisaged for this
Development                                     completed and approved by Municipal           component would signal an improvement in
Number of people trained in Municipal           Councils                                      management of key assets and prepare the
Management (at least 200)                                                                     ground for crucial investments to be




                                                                   27

                                                Annex 3. Updated Results Framework
                                        Project Development Objective and Outcome Indicators


                                                Number of district municipalities' urban areas  undertaken in future in partnership by the
                                                with street addressing systems installed        three levels of Government. A satisfactory
                                                                                                performance of this component, as measured
                                                                                                by the proposed indicators, would lend
                                                                                                credibility to requests for further support and
                                                                                                could open the way to consideration of Bank
                                                                                                involvement in future efforts to manage and
                                                                                                enhance the Valley's assets
Component Five                                  Improved capacity of MINCETUR and
Project Management                              COPESCO, measured by: (i) project funds
                                                100% disbursed according to plan by Project
Project funds disbursed according to plan,      closing date; (ii) financial and audit reports
with satisfactory technical, safeguards and     received in a timely manner; (iii) ISRs with
fiduciary performance                           Satisfactory PDO, IP, safeguards,
                                                procurement and fiduciary ratings.




                                                                     28

                                                                          Annex 3. Updated Results Framework
                                                           Project Development Objective and Outcome Indicators



                               Arrangements for Results Monitoring                                    Baseline Values                                  Target Values

                             Results Indicators for Each Component                                   October 31, 2008           June 30, 2010                           June 30, 2011

Component one:
   Feasibility study approved by SNIP and engineering designs for a road and rail bypass around the        None          Feasibility study submitted to     Feasibility study approved by SNIP +
   historic town of Ollantaytambo                                                                                                    SNIP                      engineering designs approved


   Number of historic architectural, agricultural and hydraulic structures restored                        None          2 historic structures restored         6 historic structures restored


   Signage system for archaeological sites in Pisac and Ollantaytambo in place                             None           2 signage systems designed             2 signage systems in place


   Interpretation centers built and operating in Ollantaytambo and Urubamba                                None          2 interpretation centers built    2 interpretation centers operating fully

Component two:
   Solid waste study approved by SNIP and proposal for solid waste management system for                   None          Feasibility study submitted to     Feasibility study approved by SNIP +
   Vilcanota Valley, complete with engineering designs                                                                               SNIP                      engineering designs approved

   Early warning system installed and operating in Machu Picchu Pueblo                                     None          Early warning system installed    Early warning system in full operation
                                                                                                                                    & tested
Component three:
   Number of Telecenters built and operating                                                               None                  2 Telecenters                           6 Telecenters


   Number of small grants awarded to community projects                                                 41 grants to    45 grants to community projects       45 grants to community projects
                                                                                                     community projects        (100% disbursed)                       (100% disbursed)
                                                                                                      (70% disbursed)
Component four:

   Number of people trained in Municipal Management                                                  237 trained people        237 trained people                     237 trained people
   (subcomponent completed before Restructuring)




   Number of municipal urban land use plans completed                                                      None             7 draft municipal plans           7 municipal plans completed and
                                                                                                                           submitted for discussion                        approved

   Street address systems installed in urban areas of municipalities                                       None          3 municipal systems designed                3 municipal systems
                                                                                                                                                                           installed




                                                                                                 29

          Annex 4. : Consultation, Social Assessment, and Social Action Plans


1. Introduction

OP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples, applies to the project. Since indigenous communities have been
determined to be the overwhelming beneficiary of the project, the entire project qualifies as an
Indigenous Peoples Project and no stand-alone Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) will be required, as
per the requirements of the World Bank's Disclosure policy. Rather, the policy's more rigorous
standards of engagement with local stakeholders and respect for local cultures will apply to the
entire Project. Among the core principles of the policy that have been incorporated into the
Restructuring is that of "free, prior and informed consultation," leading to "broad community
support."

As this is an ongoing Project, the consultation process will continue to play an important role
under the Restructuring. In addition to the requirements of OP 4.10, the project restructuring
reflects the change in Environmental Categorization from "B" to "A". This change is based on
the realization, through consultations and work during the first phase of the project, that the
environmental and social sensitivity of the area warrants a Category "A" rather than the "B" that
was earlier assessed to be appropriate. Consequently a great deal of work has been done to
strengthen and undertake further diagnostic work and consult with different stakeholders.
MINCETUR has agreed to undertake: (a) a review of the existing consultation process to date
under the Project; (b) a gap analysis with regard to policy equivalence issues; (c) an analysis of
existing Project institutions and capacity with regard to the policy's application; and (d) the
development of a strategy for filling the identified gaps through existing, modified and or/newly
created institutional arrangements.

An initial review of the consultation process under the Project to date has already been
undertaken by MINCETUR, with support from the Bank's social and environmental specialists.
The results are detailed in the document, "Resumen de la Politica para Pueblos Indigenas," and
duly disclosed, both in-country by the respective agencies, and in the Bank's InfoShop, according
to Bank disclosure policy. A brief summary of the findings reported in the initial review, and their
operational implications for the Restructuring are summarized below.

2. Summary of the Process to Date

The review confirmed that consultation under the original Project was an ongoing and extensive
process, starting from the beginning of the Project's preparation in 2003, involving diverse
categories of local actors, and including consultations with key stakeholders on the Project's
environmental aspects.

The process was also found, however, to be somewhat unsystematic, unevenly documented, and
largely confined to particular activities (such as the Geotourism Map and the Ferias de
Desarrollo LED small grants program). In the context of delayed implementation and low
disbursement that led to this Restructuring, these consultations raised local expectations in ways
that Project implementation failed to meet. As a result, new consultations undertaken under the
Restructuring will have to be conducted with great sensitivity, and carefully sequenced with the
achievement of concrete results on the ground.

The proposed Restructuring is itself the product of an ongoing process of multi-stakeholder
consultation, beginning in January, 2007, and including consultation of the Strategic
Environmental Assessment in November and December of 2007, which included conversations,
interviews and participatory workshops in Sicuani, Urubamba, Quillabamba and Cusco, with
mayors, other city officials, NGOs and local residents (the results of these workshops are


                                                30

                                                  31


recorded in the final SEA report). The TORs for the Ollantaytambo Bypass Road study were also
subject to public consultation in March 2008, along with multi-stakeholder discussions of the
Project's safeguards aspects. Other consultations may be found in the documentation cited above,
which has been duly disclosed, according to Bank policy standards. This extensive process of
multi-stakeholder consultations on the nature and extent of the proposed changes, which took
place over the course of several Bank missions, has been identified as one of the main reasons
why the Restructuring took over a year to process.

3. Institutional Changes under the Restructuring with Regard to Consultation

Building upon the history interactions to date with local institutions and communities, a
number of significant changes have been made under preparation for the Restructuring, as
a direct consequence of local demand and ongoing consultations. Among them the:

          strengthening of MINCETUR's Project Implementation Team (Equipo de
          Implementación de Proyecto, or EIP) in Cusco, and the involvement of the
          Regional Government of Cusco (Gobierno Regional de Cusco, or GRC), via Plan
          COPESCO, as Co-Executing Agency of the Project;
          simplification and consolidation of the Project components;
          cancellation of the contract of the consultants who were conducting the the solid
          waste management study;
          inclusion of the new feasibility study for the Ollentaytambo Bypass Road;
          formation of a multi-institutional Project Steering Committee;
          formation of a multi-institutional Ad-Hoc Committee, to accompany the process
          of the Ollentaytambo Bypass Road;
          elimination, from the subcomponent on MPP, of the resettlement of 60 families;
          and
          need to have these changes themselves discussed with the relevant stakeholders,
          which is being planned as part of the ongoing process under the Restructuring.

Apart from these changes, several new institutional and legal mechanisms have been created
under the Restructuring specifically to ensure compliance with OP 4.10 and other Bank
safeguards. Among these changes is the inclusion in the Loan Agreement of a set of "technical
feasibility clearance" requirements, or "triggers" (gatillos), to ensure compliance with specific
policies. Under the amended Loan Agreement, all sub-components involving works and/or
studies for future works must be reviewed by the Project Steering Committee for compliance with
these triggers, as well as by the Bank in giving its no-objection, before their authorization for
financing. It should be noted that "adequate prior consultation, in accordance with OP 4.10," is
one of these triggers.

All consultation and social analysis activities related to safeguards compliance will be under the
responsibility of COPESCO, working in close collaboration with the Strategic Communication
Plan (Plan de Comunicación Estratégica, or PEC), and with additional staff and resources from
the Project, as necessary. Funded through an initial US$ 90,000 grant from the Italian
Government Culture and Sustainable Development Trust Fund, the PEC is currently engaged in
data collection activities that are extremely pertinent to the types of social analysis and
consultation activities required under the OP. These include a public opinion poll, to establish
baseline information on local stakeholders (e.g., a demographic profile, communication needs and
barriers), and a Stakeholder Engagement Plan, to identify key stakeholder groups and build a
regular, constructive dialogue with local communities and institutions. Revision and disclosure of



                                               31

                                                  32


the PEC, including this strategy and all other modifications related to OP 4.10, are among the
"technical feasibility clearance (trigger) requirements" for all subcomponents.

To build on this substantial existing process, and to avoid the creation of parallel structures and
redundant activities, COPESCO's safeguards specialists (currently being hired), together with
MINCETUR's Communications Specialist, will develop a joint strategy for strengthening and
complementing the PEC's existing activities with additional activities, and determining any
additional Project staff and financial resources that these modifications may require.

                             4. Planned Future Consultations
Future consultations and related activities under the Project are planned in two phases: (i)
short-term actions concerning the Project as a whole, and (ii) medium-term actions
concerning specific and as-yet unidentified works.

                             Planned short-term actions include:
         consultations of the Restructuring;
         actions to disseminate and consult the revised environmental frameworks (a
         condition for disbursement for the first works to be financed under the
         Restructuring);
         consultation of the Project-wide triggering of OP 4.10; and
         capacity building and technical assistance in Bank safeguards for the Project
         team.

                           Planned medium-term actions include:
         participation of local stakeholders in the selection of specific subprojects to be
         implemented; and
         dissemination and consultation of all social and environmental plans to be
         implemented under the Project.




                                                32

