Page  1
1
October 24, 2008 
 
Environmental and Social Management of the Restructured Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation 
Project: Safeguard Excerpts from the Project Paper
Preface 
This document outlines the way in which environmental and social safeguards for the Vilcanota 
Valley Rehabilitation project will be managed. It presents excerpts from the Project Paper and 
may need to be updated once the Project’s Environmental Assessment/Management Framework 
and Strategic Communications Plan have been updated. 
 
Description 
1. 
The Project was originally approved by the Board of Directors on November 14, 2004, and 
became effective on May 13, 2005. The PDO is to support the Government of Peru’s (GoP) 
efforts to enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of historical, cultural and 
ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley, including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu 
(HSMP) and the Sacred Valley of the Incas, through:  
 
(i) 
consultation with local stakeholders to establish a shared vision for the future of the 
Valley and to ensure that Project design and implementation reflect community priorities; 
(ii) 
capacity-building of municipal government authorities, local communities, and the 
private sector in areas such as tourism, municipal financial management, urban service 
provision, disaster mitigation and local economic development; 
(iii) 
targeted infrastructure investments and provision of urban services; and 
(iv) 
capacity-building in tourism services and management, and the providing of necessary 
tourism infrastructure, in compliance with key UNESCO World Heritage Sites 
guidelines. 
 
The Restructuring 
2. 
The Project is being restructured in order to accomplish the following: 
i. 
Transfer the execution of several specific subcomponents from the Ministry of Foreign 
Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR) to the Cusco Regional Government (GRC);  
ii. 
Streamline and simplify Project implementation procedures;  
iii. 
Reallocate funds among disbursement categories so as to better reflect modifications of 
certain Project subcomponents;  
iv. 
Include changes in the nature of certain subcomponents to better fit expected outcomes 
and available funds;  
v. 
Strengthen institutional counterpart capacity for managing project fiduciary and 
safeguard responsibilities;  
vi. 
Enhance Government ownership and create an additional accountability mechanism by 
introducing an inter-institutional Steering Committee consisting of representatives of 
MEF, MINCETUR and COPESCO; 
vii. 
Modify the Project’s Results Framework and outcome indicators, and 
viii. 
Extend the Closing Date by 24 months. 
 
Environmental Safeguards Category 
3. 
Although the Project’s Environmental Safeguard Category was originally rated a B, during 
Restructuring it has been upgraded to an A. It should be noted that the restructured Project will 
have lower environmental impacts than envisaged under the original Project design, due to the 
fact that many subcomponents will now focus on studies and engineering designs rather than 
financing works. Therefore, the upgrade to A was due not to the expected impacts of the proposed 
E948 
V5 
Page  2
2
works, but rather to the great archeological, historical and cultural significance of the Project 
area, which includes the HSMP, a UNESCO World Heritage Site.  
 
4. 
The Project area is located in the Vilcanota Valley, which encompasses the HSMP. In turn, 
part of the Inca Trail, as well as the Machu Picchu Citadel, which contains the famed 
archeological structures commonly referred to simply as Machu Picchu, are located within the 
HSMP. No Project-financed works or activities will take place in the Machu Picchu Citadel 
proper. Some of the Project’s works and activities are focused on the nearby town of Machu 
Picchu Pueblo (MPP), also known as Aguascalientes, which is also located in the HSMP.   
 
5. 
With an A rating, the Project will therefore be subject to correspondingly higher standards 
of stakeholder consultation, analysis and disclosure.
1
The safeguard policies on Natural Habitats 
(OP 4.04) and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) have now been triggered under the Restructuring; 
these policies were not triggered under the original project. The original Project had already 
triggered the policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, 
now OP 4.11, Physical Cultural Resources). On the other hand, the policy on Involuntary 
Resettlement (OP 4.12) is no longer triggered under the Restructuring, since all resettlement 
actions have been eliminated, and a screening mechanism developed to guard against any future 
resettlement impacts. In summary, the following policies are triggered under the Restructuring: 
 
ƒ
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); 
ƒ
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); 
ƒ
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10); and 
ƒ
Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11). 
 
6. 
The Restructuring has significantly reduced the Project’s potential environmental and 
social impacts. Certain originally-planned works have been eliminated, and others replaced with 
feasibility studies and engineering designs to prepare for future works to be executed with 
adequate funding and implementation capacity. For example, the Project will no longer finance 
construction of landfills, an activity which would require a great deal of environmental 
supervision and for which the resources available under the Project were clearly not sufficient. 
The Project will instead finance studies on how best to manage the Vilcanota Valley’s solid 
waste, as well as the pre-feasibility and feasibility work, engineering designs and bidding 
documents deriving from such studies. Another activity under the original Project design, the 
improvement of the road from Pisac to Ollantaytambo, was financed by other sources and was 
eliminated altogether from the Project under the Restructuring. 
 
Safeguards Triggered 
7. 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
.
As the Project involves minor works, some 
temporary low-level environmental impacts (noise, dust, construction waste, alteration of natural 
drainage, etc.) are expected during construction. The client has prepared instruments (discussed 
below) to manage these impacts in compliance with Bank Safeguards.  
 
8. 
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
.
Although the Project will not significantly convert or adversely 
impact any natural habitats, some minor works will be executed in or around the HSMP (a natural 
protected area) or its buffer zone. Also, the Project area is located next to the Abra Malaga 
Private Conservation Zone. The Environmental Framework for Minor Infrastructure Works 
1
As this is an ongoing Project, with no additional financing, the Pelosi timetable does not apply, despite of 
the A safeguard rating. Rather, a reasonable period of at least 30 days will be allowed for public disclosure 
and discussion of key Project documents. 
Page  3
3
contains screening mechanisms to identify works in protected areas, and includes directions for 
implementation to ensure that these activities will be carried out in accordance with the area’s 
environmental management plan. 
 
9. 
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)
.
Although this policy was not triggered under the original 
Project, it has been activated under the Restructuring. Since indigenous peoples have been 
determined to constitute a majority of the affected population, the policy’s superior standards of 
“free, prior and informed consultation, social assessment, culturally appropriate benefits” and 
“broad community support” will apply to the entire Project in a blanket manner. Specifically, the 
following principles will be taken into account in designing and implementation of future Project 
actions: 
·
Free, prior and informed consultation
.
Consultation under the original Project was 
extensive,
2
and the proposed Restructuring is itself the product of an ongoing process of 
consultation with diverse stakeholders.
3
Adequate prior consultation, in accordance with 
OP 4.10, is one of the “triggers” for all subcomponents. New consultations will be 
undertaken with sensitivity, and carefully sequenced with the achievement of visible, 
concrete Project results on the ground. 
·
Social assessment
.
Social Assessment (SA) activities are currently underway.
4
·
Culturally appropriate benefits
.
Each financed activity will aim to ensure, via input from 
the two above-mentioned processes, that local stakeholders receive justly distributed and 
culturally-appropriate benefits. 
·
Broad community support
.
This involves mechanisms and processes for the gauging of 
local responses – both positive and negative – to Project actions, and relying upon local 
decision-making and consensus-building means.
5
10. 
As this is an ongoing project, these existing activities will be progressively strengthened 
under the Restructuring. In reorienting the Project to explicitly respond to the requirements of the 
policy. So far, MINCETUR and COPESCO have undertaken: (a) a review of the entire Project 
consultation process to date; (b) an identification of all gaps with regard to the policy; (c) an 
analysis of existing Project institutions and capacity with regard to application of the policy; and 
(d) the development of a strategy for filling those gaps through existing, modified and or/newly 
created institutional arrangements.  
 
11. 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP 4.11)
.
The Project includes works within the UNESCO 
World Heritage Site of Machu Picchu and other archeologically important sites, specifically: 
2
This process included consultations with key stakeholders on the Project’s environmental aspects, it was also 
unsystematic, unevenly documented, and limited to certain activities (such as the Geotourism Map and the 
Ferias de 
Desarrollo
 LED small grants program). This process has been documented and a summary disclosed according to the 
Bank’s standards. 
3
This process, beginning in January, 2007, included consultation of the SEA in November and December of 2007, via 
conversations, interviews and participatory workshops in Sicuani, Urubamba, Quillabamba and Cusco, with mayors, 
other city officials, NGOs and local residents (the results of these workshops are recorded in the final SEA report). The 
TORs for the Ollantaytambo Bypass Road study were subject to public consultations in March 2008, along with multi-
stakeholder discussions of the various safeguards aspects of the Project. This process has also been documented and a 
summary disclosed according to the Bank’s standards. 
4
These include a public opinion poll, to establish baseline information on local stakeholders (e.g., a demographic 
profile, communication needs and barriers), and a Stakeholder Engagement Plan, to identify key stakeholder groups 
and build a regular, constructive dialogue with local communities and institutions. 
5
These aspects are treated at greater length in the Indigenous Peoples Instrument disclosed by COPESCO, 
MINCETUR and the Bank, as well as in the revised PEC, to be completed and disclosed as a “trigger” to the initiation 
of any future works in the Project. 
Page  4
4
ƒ
improvements to basic sanitation and solid waste collection services at four campsites 
along the Inca Trail; 
ƒ
a
signage system for historic monuments; 
ƒ
restoration and preservation of historically-significant architecture; and 
ƒ
restoration and preservation of historic agricultural and hydraulic infrastructure. 
 
12. 
Chance finds are possible, as works may be undertaken at or near historic monuments and 
structures in and around the HSMP. The Peruvian National Institute of Culture (INC) has been 
involved in the Project from its inception, including the drafting of all relevant TORs, and will 
continue to work closely with the Project in all matters concerning historical monuments. 
 
13. 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
.
No subcomponents under the Restructuring will 
involve any involuntary resettlement, and the “triggers” for authorization of future works by the 
Steering Committee include the screening out of any potential resettlement impacts. Under the 
original Project, a Resettlement Action Plan had been prepared for 60 at-risk households in MPP. 
The plan has been abandoned, based on consultations and site visits, due to lack of broad 
community support and doubts as to its effectiveness in terms of landslide risk mitigation. 
Instead, a comprehensive Urban Land Use Plan for the town will be developed, taking into 
account the results of the risk management study currently being undertaken by a team of 
specialists from the University of Maryland, with support from GFDRR. A Process Framework 
had also been prepared but never implemented for 47 families residing and/or engaging in 
subsistence agriculture and cattle-raising along the Inca Trail, including training and assistance in 
seeking income generation alternatives. Under the Restructuring, new consultation with this 
population, in keeping with the Bank policy on Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10), and aimed at 
avoiding or mitigating any future resettlement, will be undertaken.  
 
14. 
Instruments. The following environmental and social safeguards instruments and 
mechanisms have been prepared and will be updated for the restructured Project:  
ƒ
An Environmental Framework for the Construction of Landfills was developed, to guide 
the design of a Regional Solid Waste Management System. Under the Restructuring, 
subcomponent 2.5, Studies for Solid Waste Management in the Vilcanota Valley, will 
only finance feasibility studies, engineering studies and preparation of bidding 
documents. Therefore, this framework will now be used to guide the development of 
feasibility studies and detailed engineering plans, as necessary, rather than works. 
ƒ
An Environmental Framework for Minor Infrastructure Works was also developed to 
govern all other works in the Project, including: (i) a guide for the categorization of 
works (based on type and level of sensitivity, taking into account Bank safeguard 
policies); (ii) a fieldwork checklist to determine the potential social and environmental 
impacts of infrastructure works; and (iii) an environmental manual for infrastructure 
works (addressing site selection, norms for contractors engaged in construction activities, 
community information and outreach, supervision and monitoring, etc.). It also includes 
chance find procedures and other measures for managing works at archeological sites. 
ƒ
A
specific environmental assessment was also conducted for the Inca Trail—“
Gestión 
Ambiental del Camino Inca a Machu Picchu
”
(December, 2003)—which includes 
proposals addressing key issues such as waste management. This will be a key input for, 
and will be complemented by, the planned study of the carrying capacity of the Inca Trail 
(subcomponent 1.13).  
ƒ
The Project’s Operational Manual (OM), which includes the above frameworks, and 
integrates environmental and social concerns into all phases of the Project. 
ƒ
A
regional Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), Project subcomponent 4.1, was 
completed and presented to stakeholders in August 2008. The SEA addresses the likely 
Page  5
5
medium- to long-term environmental impacts in the Vilcanota Valley and HSMP from 
tourism, industrial activity, agriculture and related demographic and resource use 
patterns. It includes: (i) risk prevention and mitigation plans; (ii) natural resource 
management; (iii) economic and cultural activities; (iv) sustainable tourism development 
of the Vilcanota River Basin; and (v) a suggested program to resolve inter-institutional 
governance conflicts in the Basin. It specifically addresses the conservation of historical 
structures, works of art and other physical or intangible cultural assets (archeological 
sites, historic villages, sacred sites, living culture, museums and other aspects of the 
Vilcanota Valley cultural heritage), updating an inventory of cultural assets in the Valley 
(prepared in collaboration with INC), and policy recommendations for the protection of 
tangible and intangible cultural heritage resources. The urban and rural land use plans 
that will be developed for the municipalities of Machu Picchu, Ollantaytambo, Santa 
Teresa, Chinchero, Urubamba, Calca and Pisac under Project subcomponent 4.2 will be 
based on this SEA. 
ƒ
Transversal Triggers: 
A
new mechanism has also been included in the Loan Agreement, consisting of “triggers” 
(
gatillos
), or disbursement conditions for particular subcomponents. These include the 
following set of “transversal” triggers, listed in the Operational Manual, to be applied to all 
subcomponents involving works: 
1) the screening out of all involuntary resettlement impacts, according to OP 4.12; 
2) the adequacy of free, prior and informed consultation, in accordance with OP 4.10; 
3) revision and disclosure of the PEC, once revised, in compliance with OP 4.10; 
4) prior to the start of works, an updated version of the Project’s Environmental 
Management Framework (as reflected in the OM) for the restructured Project 
which has received Bank approval, must be in effect; 
5) prior disclosure of all relevant documents; and 
6) the existence of adequate capacity for safeguards implementation (e.g., the hiring 
of two safeguards specialists by COPESCO—one social and one environmental). 
 
15. 
All proposed works will be subject to prior review by the Steering Committee, to ensure 
their compliance with the above-described “triggers.” The Bank will then review and confirm 
compliance with the triggers before giving no-objection. All Bank-financed studies comply with 
Bank safeguards as appropriate, regardless of whether the actual works deriving from such 
studies would be Bank-financed or not.  
 
Consultation 
16. 
A
detailed description of the original (pre-Restructured) process is found in Annexes 3 to 5. 
New consultation will be undertaken with great sensitivity, and carefully sequenced with the 
achievement of visible, concrete Project results on the ground. 
17. 
All consultation and social analysis activities related to safeguards compliance under the 
Restructured Project will be under the responsibility of COPESCO, working in close 
collaboration with the Strategic Communication Plan (“Plan de Comunicación Estratégica,” or 
PEC), and with additional staff and resources from the Project as necessary.
6
To build on existing 
work, and avoid parallel structures and redundant activities, COPESCO’s safeguards specialists 
will develop, together with MINCETUR’s Communications Specialist, a joint strategy for 
strengthening and complementing the PEC’s existing activities, with additional activities, and 
determining any additional Project staff and financial resources that these modifications may 
6
Funded through an initial US$ 90,000 grant from the Italian Culture and Sustainable Development Trust Fund, the 
PEC is currently engaged in data collection activities. 
Page  6
6
require. Revision and disclosure of the PEC, including this strategy and all other modifications 
related to OP 4.10, are among the “triggers” for all subcomponents. 
 
18. 
The proposed Restructuring is itself the product of an ongoing process of consultation with 
diverse stakeholders, beginning in January, 2007, and included consultation of the SEA in 
November and December of 2007, via conversations, interviews and participatory workshops in 
Sicuani, Urubamba, Quillabamba and Cusco, with mayors, other city officials, NGOs and local 
residents (the results of these workshops are recorded in the final SEA report). The TORs for the 
Ollantaytambo Bypass Road study were subject to public consultations in March 2008, along 
with multi-stakeholder discussions of the various safeguards aspects of the Project. A more 
detailed description of this process is also found in Annexes 3 to5. 
 
19. 
Disclosure. The environmental frameworks have been available on the Bank’s website 
since 2003 and 2004. MINCETUR announced the SEA’s completion on their website in July, 
2008, and will make it available to the public by October, 2008. The current environmental 
frameworks and the Indigenous People’s instrument (which contains basic information on the 
Project’s implications for Indigenous People) are disclosed in country in Spanish on 
MINCETUR’s website. The revised environmental frameworks will also be made available 
online through both the Bank and the implementing agencies’ websites. Additionally, hard copies 
of the environmental and social (i.e. Indigenous People’s instrument) management 
frameworks/approaches have been distributed to various other government institutions including 
local government offices so as to be accessible to the public without internet access. The Project 
Information Document—disclosed on August 12, 2008—also contains basic information on the 
Project’s environmental and social management.  
 
Institutional Arrangements and Capacity 
 
20. 
Several modifications have been made under the Restructuring in the Project’s institutional 
arrangements that have significant safeguards implications. 
Under the Restructuring, COPESCO 
has assumed responsibility for safeguards compliance in the Project.
7
COPESCO’s tasks will 
include:  
(a)  reviewing the restructured Project and existing environmental frameworks to determine any 
gaps and develop an updated environmental framework to contain any necessary additions 
or revisions;  
(b) submitting the revised environmental frameworks, and environmental management plans 
for individual works (as necessary), to the Bank for no-objection; 
(c) screening of all proposed works to ensure their compliance with the applicable 
Environmental Management Framework/s, the OM and safeguards policies, including 
involuntary resettlement. 
(d) screening potential works for resettlement and other safeguards compliance issues, and 
supervision responsibilities, as detailed in the environmental frameworks and OM; 
(e) reviewing all studies, technical plans and related ToRs to ensure their compliance with 
applicable Environmental Management Frameworks, Operations Manual and safeguards 
policies; and 
(f) ensuring that the above-described standards of OP 4.10, on Indigenous Peoples, are 
properly and reasonably applied; and 
7
Founded as a joint initiative between UNESCO and the GoP for the preservation and restoration of the historical, 
cultural and ecological assets of the Vilcanota Valley, COPESCO has 30 years’ experience in project planning and 
implementation in the Cusco region. 
Page  7
7
(g) any other safeguards supervision responsibilities as detailed in the environmental 
frameworks and OM. 
 
21. 
In order to fulfill these obligations, COPESCO is currently in the process of hiring two 
safeguards specialists (one for environmental and one for social safeguards), so as to develop the 
necessary capacity to execute this and future Bank-financed operations (their ToRs are included 
in the OM). Once hired, these specialists will be provided adequate safeguards training and 
support, beginning with a series of workshops planned for December, 2008. Additional training 
and support activities will be added as necessary.  
 
22. 
The Project Steering Committee will be responsible for providing policy guidance and 
oversight to Project implementation, including the overseeing of safeguards compliance, staffing 
and coordination, and submission of all studies and plans for proposed works to the Bank for 
safeguards analysis and no-objection. Upon completion of initial studies, the Steering Committee 
will select a small number of works to be financed under the Project, based on factors including 
estimated budget and compliance with safeguards screening criteria and other eligibility 
requirements. The Steering Committee
’s powers and responsibilities are defined in the OM.
 
8
23. 
A
new mechanism has also been included in the Loan Agreement, consisting of the afore-
mentioned and described “triggers” (gatillos), or disbursement conditions for particular 
subcomponents. All proposed works will be subject to prior review by the Steering Committee, to 
ensure their compliance with the above-described “triggers.” The Bank will then review and 
confirm compliance with the triggers before giving no-objection. All Bank-financed studies will 
comply with Bank safeguards as appropriate, regardless of whether the actual works deriving 
from such studies would be Bank-financed or not.  
8
They include: (a) provision of institutional support and a coordination framework for Project implementation; (b) 
establishment of strategic guidelines for the Project implementation, including review of annual operational plans, (c) 
review of overall progress in Project implementation by MINCETUR and COPESCO (including a review of audits), 
and (d) evaluation of Project activities and oversight of compliance with Project norms, feasibility studies and 
objectives (including analysis and consideration of which Project activities might require pre-feasibility studies). 
Page  8
8
