                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001942




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72570)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                            GOVERNMENT OF PERU

                                      FOR A

   VILCANOTA VALLEY REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                December 19, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 16/12/2011)

                           Currency Unit = Soles
                             1.00 = US$ 0.37
                             US$ 1.00 = 2.70

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CONSUCODE    Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado
COPESCO       Proyecto Especial Regional Plan COPESCO Cusco
CRG           Cusco Regional Government
DNDT          Dirección Nacional de Desarrollo Turístico, MINCETUR
FM           Financial Management
GFDRR        Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction
GoP         Government of Peru
HSMP        Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu
INC         National Institute of Culture
ISR          Implementation Status and Result Report
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINCETUR    Ministerio de Comercio Exterior y Turismo
MPP         Machu Picchu Pueblo (also known as the town of Aguascalientes)
OM          Project Operations Manual
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIP         Proyecto de Inversión Pública
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PRRVV       Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project
SEA         Strategic Environmental Assessment
SNIP        Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization


                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
                      Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark
                       Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
                  Project Team Leader: Roberto Chavez/Ivo Imparato/Ellen Hamilton
                     ICR Team Leader: Ellen Hamilton
                                                              PERU

                     Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project

                                                         CONTENTS


A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ v
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... vi
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................... vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Original and Restructured Performance Indicators ........................................... 25
Annex 3. Outputs by Component..................................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 32
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 33
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 36
Annex 8. Map.................................................................................................................... 37
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Vilcanota Valley
Country:                Peru                        Project Name:          Rehabilitation and
                                                                           Management Project
Project ID:             P082625                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72570
ICR Date:               11/04/2011                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                           THE GOVERNMENT
Lending Instrument:     SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                           OF PERU
Original Total
                        USD 4.98M                   Disbursed Amount:      USD 4.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.98M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
PER Plan COPESCO
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism MINCETUR



Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/08/2003         Effectiveness:           05/09/2005       05/09/2005
Appraisal:            03/15/2004         Restructuring(s):                         01/27/2009
Approval:             09/14/2004         Mid-term Review:         05/15/2007       06/08/2007
                                         Closing:                 06/30/2009       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
                                                                           Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                           Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately                  Implementing           Moderately

                                                    i
                           Unsatisfactory            Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower          Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                        10                  10
Other social services                                                   45                  45
Solid waste management                                                  25                  25
Sub-national government administration                                  20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                      22                  22
Municipal governance and institution building                           22                  22
Rural non-farm income generation                                        22                  22
Rural services and infrastructure                                       11                  11
Urban services and housing for the poor                                 23                  23

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:            Susan G. Goldmark                    Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:              Guang Zhe Chen                       John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:         Ellen Hamilton                       Roberto Chavez
ICR Team Leader:             Ellen Hamilton
ICR Primary Author:          Cintia Silvia Vega




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to support the Government of Peru's efforts to
enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of historical, cultural and
ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu
Picchu (HSMP) and the Sacred Valley of the Incas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO did not change.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values         Target Years
                  Improved inter-institutional coordination amongst MINCETUR, COPESCO and
Indicator 1 :     the Municipalities of Valley measured by i) the adoption of planning tools
                  generated by the project; ii) MOU signed
Value
quantitative or   i) 0; ii) 0               i) 7; ii) 2                         i) 0; ii) 2
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                12/15/2008                          06/30/2011
Comments
                  Planning tools have been finished and Municipalities are currently in the process
(incl. %
                  of adopting them.
achievement)
                  Feasibility Studies approved by the Ministry of Economy and Finances (MEF)
Indicator 2 :     according to SNIP requirements for the Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass and
                  the construction of a solid waste collection and disposal system.
Value
quantitative or   0                         2                                   0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
                  The study for the solid waste collection and disposal system is being finalized
(incl. %
                  and is expected to be approved by MEF by spring 2012.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Small grants awarded to at least 40 community projects
Value
(quantitative   0                           45                                  44
or Qualitative)

                                                  iii
Date achieved     12/15/2008                  06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments          44 grants were awarded, but not all of them were fully disbursed due to some
(incl. %          recipient associations not being able to meet legal requirements. About 88% of
achievement)      the total amount awarded was disbursed.
Indicator 2 :     Number of people trained in Municipal Management
Value
(quantitative     0                          237                              256
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          108% achieved.
achievement)
                  Solid waste study approved by SNIP and proposal for solid waste management
Indicator 3 :
                  system for Vilcanota Valley, complete with engineering designs
Value
(quantitative     0                          1                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
                  The studies are currently being finished by the CRG and are expected to be
(incl. %
                  approved in 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of Telecenters built and operating
Value
(quantitative     0                          6                                5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          5 telecenters were built or improved and are currently operating. 85% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of municipal urban land use plans completed.
Value
(quantitative     0                          7                                7
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
                  The land use plans have been finished and are currently being reviewed/adopted
(incl. %
                  by the municipalities. 100% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Street address systems installed in municipalities.
Value
(quantitative     0                          3                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
                  The designs for the street address systems have been completed under the
(incl. %
                  municipal land use plans studies, but have not been installed yet.
achievement)
                  Feasibility study approved by SNIP and engineering designs for a bypass road
Indicator 7 :
                  around the historic town of Ollantaytambo
Value             0                         1                                0

                                                   iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                  06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          The consultant did not finish the study.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of historic architectural, agricultural and hydraulic structures restored.
Value
(quantitative     0                           6                                  3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments          The Project supported restoration of three monuments with a larger intervention
(incl. %          than originally planned: the other 3 monuments were included in the Ministry of
achievement)      Culture program and removed from the Project. 50% achieved.
Indicator 9 :     Signage system for archaeological sites in Pisac and Ollantaytambo in place.
Value
(quantitative     0                           2                                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                  06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  The signage system was included in the Ministry of Culture plans and thus
(incl. %
                  dropped by COPESCO.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Interpretation centers built and operating in Ollantaytambo and Urubamba.
Value
(quantitative     0                           2                                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                  06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  The contract for the interpretation centers' designs was terminated by
(incl. %
                  MINCETUR.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Early warning system installed and operating in Machu Picchu Pueblo
Value
(quantitative     0                           1                                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments          System has been designed and piloted, which showed the need for changes to the
(incl. %          design, which are now in process and are expected to be completed likely in
achievement)      2012.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     11/29/2004             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     05/03/2005             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     07/29/2005             Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    0.02


                                                  v
  4   05/19/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            0.17
  5   12/18/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            0.22
                                                 Moderately
  6   05/24/2007    Moderately Satisfactory                                    0.34
                                               Unsatisfactory
  7   12/15/2007       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                  0.72
                         Moderately              Moderately
  8   06/26/2008                                                               1.29
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  9   12/15/2008                                                               1.74
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 10   03/20/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            1.81
 11   11/03/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            2.26
 12   05/12/2010        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            2.46
                                                 Moderately
 13   12/18/2010    Moderately Satisfactory                                    2.54
                                               Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
 14   06/18/2011                                                               3.64
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Projects Restructuring
                                                     objectives were: (i) improve and
                                                     accelerate Project
                                                     implementation by
                                                     decentralizing and transferring
                                                     specific Project subcomponents
                                                     from MINCETUR to the
                                                     Regional Government of Cusco
                                                     (CRG); (ii) adjust Project
                                                     subcomponents to the changes
                                                     in local circumstances and
                                                     Government priorities that had
 01/27/2009       N       MU    MU            1.81   taken place since Project
                                                     inception, making better use of
                                                     the Project‘s limited funds by
                                                     financing feasibility studies and
                                                     engineering designs that would
                                                     generate an infrastructure
                                                     project pipeline for the
                                                     Vilcanota Valley; (iii) restate
                                                     the Project Results Framework
                                                     and outcome indicators
                                                     accordingly; and (iv) improve
                                                     fiduciary and safeguards
                                                     performance.

                                          vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 02/05/2009       N       MU    MU            1.81   Ibid.
 07/20/2009       N       MS    MS            1.91   Ibid.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector issues

1. In the decade prior to Project preparation, tourism to the Historic Sanctuary of
Machu Picchu increased significantly as did the number of local migrants seeking to
benefit from tourism related economic opportunities. Due to the lack of preparedness in
tourist management and urban services, Machu Picchu Pueblo and the five towns in the
Sacred Valley were not able to fulfill their full economic potential and presented a
growing environmental and economic risk to the whole Valley. Machu Picchu Pueblo,
the transfer point for the train from Cusco and Ollantaytambo to the buses that wind up
the eight kilometers of dirt road to the Citadel, had experienced particularly rapid,
unplanned growth that resulted in loss of property and lives due to mudslides. The United
Nations Education, Science and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) had cautioned the
Government of Peru that mismanagement of tourism in the Historic Sanctuary of Machu
Picchu (HSMP) could lead to the Sanctuary‘s being removed from the list of World
Heritage Sites. At an annual meeting of UNESCO in China, Machu Picchu narrowly
escaped from being placed on the list of endangered world heritage sites.

2. In 2002 the Government of Finland closed the Machu Picchu Program (MPP) that
aimed to support environmental protection and sustainable tourism in the hydrological
basin that includes the HSMP after four years of collaboration with the Government of
Peru. The Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu (HSMP) includes heavily used sections of
the Inca Trail, and settlements from Santa Teresa at the downstream western tip of the
basin to settlements in the Sacred Valley, including Ollantaytambo, Urubamba, Calca,
Pisaq and smaller historical communities. This corridor is the most intensely used in the
larger Cusco hydrological catchment area.

3. The MPP had successfully supported an environmental protection program, regional
and urban master planning exercises, and technical assistance in conservation planning.
However, the program had been unable to successfully complete key infrastructure
investments and many issues remained unsolved, including environmental degradation
along the Inca Trail originated by inadequate sanitary and solid waste facilities and the
lack of training for guides and porters, a growing number of dwellings built on areas at
risk of landslides in Machu Picchu Pueblo, and exacerbated pollution in the Valley
caused by poor management of water, sewerage and solid waste collection.

4. A participatory risk assessment and consultation process conducted with Bank
support confirmed the existence of complex social, economic and political conflicts in the
region. Over 50% of residents in the Vilcanota Valley had only tenuous links to the
tourism sector and were dependent on agricultural and livestock production. These rural
constituencies, often in conflict with tourism development interests, demanded greater
support for agricultural promotion, highlands-rainforest road network connectivity and



                                            1
improved basic rural infrastructure and services. Urban constituencies suffered similar
infrastructure and basic service gaps as municipalities were unable to meet rapidly
growing demands. Conflicts also emerged as local residents were not integrated into a
tourism economy that was driven mostly by external firms and professionals. The
consultation process and risk assessment noted a series of conflicts associated with the
inability to manage solid waste services, rapid pollution in the Vilcanota River and
natural hazards including landslides, floods and soil erosion.

Rationale for Bank involvement

5. Presidents Toledo and Wolfensohn conceived the Project in 2003 in response to
UNESCO‘s warning that it might put Machu Picchu and the Sacred Valley on its list of
endangered World Heritage Sites. The Project was designed in alignment to the
Government‘s objectives at that time, which included tourism development as one of its
main priorities, and was based upon previous experience from other agencies and entities.

6. The project was aligned with the Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Peru,
discussed by the Board on September 17, 2002, which included the following objectives:
(i) increase competitiveness and employment generation; (ii) promote equity and social
justice by improving access to health, education, culture and basic urban services; and
(iii) improve the institutional framework to create an efficient and decentralized state.
The project aimed at contributing to the above objectives as it would: (a) support the
preservation of Peru‘s most valuable cultural assets; (b) increase the competitiveness of
sustainable tourism in Peru and support local employment generation in the sector; (c)
facilitate the delivery of basic rural and urban water, sanitation, solid waste and drainage
services in the Valley; and (d) strengthen the capacity of municipalities to manage
decentralized services. Additionally, the project would provide the basis for investments
in tourist services and transportation by the private sector, public institutions, the IFC and
local communities, thereby establishing a framework for follow-up operations.

7. The project was also aligned to the goals of the borrower. The former President of
Peru, Mr. Toledo, made tourism development one of his government‘s main priorities.
Other institutions such as the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR) and
the local and regional governments in Cusco, shared the same vision. A Master Plan for
the HSMP was adopted in December 2002 and about US$1.8 million were invested in
Machu Picchu Pueblo during 2003, aimed at physical improvements, successfully
rehabilitating public infrastructure and the image of the village.

The Bank aimed at contributing and leveraging leading know-how to address the
complex multi-sectoral problems in the Vilcanota Valley. The Bank was well placed to
facilitate and coordinate the interventions of several key project partners including
UNESCO, the National Geographic Society, the World Monument Fund, NGOs and
bilateral donors. In addition, the proposed operation was to complement an ongoing




                                              2
Bank-supported project 1 to expand water and sanitation services to small towns using
innovative green technologies.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8. The Project‘s development objective was to support the Government of Peru's efforts
to enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of historical, cultural and
ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu
Picchu (HSMP) and the Sacred Valley of the Incas.

9. The objectives would be attained through:
(i)   consultation among local stakeholders to establish a shared vision for the future of
      the Vilcanota Valley and to ensure that project design and implementation reflect
      community priorities;
(ii)  capacity building of municipalities, communities and firms in tourism support
      services, municipal financial management, urban service provision, disaster
      prevention and local economic development;
(iii) targeted infrastructure investments and provision of urban services; and
(iv)  capacity building in services and management, and providing tourism
      infrastructure in compliance with key UNESCO World Heritage Sites guidelines.

10. The Project‘s original key outcome performance indicators as stated in the PAD
follow below with the key performance indicators from the Loan Agreement attached as
Annex 2.

PDO indicators (from PAD):
a. % of local residents expressing satisfaction with rehabilitation and overall
   management of historical, cultural and ecological assets in the Vilcanota Valley; and
b. Improvement in basic environmental indicators for solid waste management, water
   pollution and sanitation.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

11. The Project was restructured in January 2009 (Board Approval) to focus on a smaller
number of high-priority subcomponents. This corrective restructuring did not affect the
PDO; however the key indicators were modified during restructuring to reflect the new
project design. The Project‘s revised key outcome indicators follow below and the full
list of key performance indicators from the Loan Agreement is attached as Annex 2.

Revised PDO outcome indicators (from Project Paper)



1
    Part of PRONASAR (P065256), an ongoing Bank-supported rural water and sanitation project in Peru




                                                    3
a. Improved inter-institutional coordination amongst MINCETUR, COPESCO and the
   Municipalities of the Vilcanota Valley to manage historical, cultural and ecological
   assets in the Vilcanota Valley measured by:
       o the adoption by the Municipalities of the planning tools generated by the
           Project; and
       o a Memorandum of Understanding signed to finance the construction of the
           Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass and the solid waste collection and
           disposal system.
b. Feasibility Studies approved by MEF according to SNIP requirements for the
   Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass and the construction of a solid waste collection
   and disposal system.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12. The project‘s main beneficiaries were to be the inhabitants of the Vilcanota Valley,
who would benefit from an enhanced environmental and socio-economic sustainability of
historical, cultural and ecological assets in the Valley. Local municipalities, communities
and firms in tourism support services were the primary target groups identified in the
PAD. They were expected to benefit from improved municipal financial management,
tourism infrastructure, urban service provision, disaster prevention and local economic
development. Additionally, given the heightened attention to Machu Picchu's unique
international and national cultural heritage and the condition of the HSMP as a UNESCO
World Heritage Site, tourists were also among the primary target group who were
expected to benefit from the Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

13. The project had four main components plus one component for project management.

Component I: Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development (US$ 2.63
million or 32% of total project cost). The component was to support sustainable tourism
sector development in the Vilcanota Valley through investments in:
           i. visitor services (including visitor /interpretation centers; improvements in
              sanitation and solid waste collection at specific campsites along the Inca
              Trail; and improved signage in the Valley and on the Inca Trail);
          ii. historic preservation (including studies for rehabilitation of architectural
              sites and hydrological and agricultural infrastructure and trails throughout
              the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu (HSMP) identified by the
              National Institute of Culture (INC) and global experts); and
         iii. cultural education (including developing educational content on the
              history and culture of the Andean people; content for the visitor /
              interpretation centers; an information and educational campaign on
              cultural heritage and tourism aimed at local children and other
              stakeholders; and promoting the preservation of Andean cultural identity).




                                            4
Component II: Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$ 3.04 million or
37% of total project cost). The component was to facilitate access to improved urban
services and infrastructure throughout the Valley:
           i.  regional solid waste management system (carrying out an assessment and
               making small investments in areas such as organic composting, building a
               regional sanitary landfills, management capacity building and public
               education);
          ii. resettling vulnerable households in Machu Picchu Pueblo (resettling 60
               families who were considered at particularly high risk);
         iii. detailed engineering, environmental impact assessments and investments
               in urban infrastructure (preparing detailed engineering studies, EIAs and
               physical investments in environmentally sustainable storm water drainage
               systems for urban areas in the Valley, which would be financed by other
               Bank projects).

Component III: Local Economic Development (US$ 0.95 million or 12% of total project
cost). The component was to support community-driven local economic development by
enhancing the capacity of local tourism service providers (i.e., through training),
constructing community telecenters and incubating local economic initiatives through a
demand-driven development marketplace facility (i.e., small grants).

Component IV: Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Building (US$ 1.01 million
or 13% of total project cost). This component was to enhance the strategic planning and
management capacity of municipalities in the Valley by financing: (i) a regional strategic
environmental assessment (SEA) and development of a cultural assets plan for the
Vilcanota Valley; (ii) urban and rural land use plans for the two provincial and four
district municipalities; (iii) municipal capacity building programs in participatory
planning, tourism management, municipal finance, management of urban services and
disaster prevention; and (iv) a municipal and regional GIS-based addressing system to
support land management, project planning and monitoring, and revenue mobilization.

Component V: Project Management (US$ 0.52 million or 6 % of total project cost). This
component was to support supervision, monitoring and project auditing activities to be
coordinated by a project implementation team (PIT) based in the Dirección Nacional de
Desarrollo Turístico (DNDT).

1.6 Revised Components

14. While the five components were maintained throughout Project implementation, the
January 9, 2009 restructuring introduced the following important changes:

Component I: Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development
 This component was expanded with the inclusion of the design of a road and rail
  bypass around the historic town of Ollantaytambo, which included pre-feasibility and
  feasibility studies to be approved by the SNIP, as well as detailed engineering
  designs and bidding documents.



                                            5
   Works to restore bridges on the Pisac-Ollantaytambo Highway were dropped as they
    were carried out by the Cusco Regional Government.
   Program on Rediscovery of Cultural Identity was eliminated to allow the resources to
    be used for other purposes.

Component II: Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
 Solid waste activities no longer were to include works but instead were focused on
  studies (pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for the proposed solid waste
  management and disposal system, as well as detailed engineering designs and bidding
  documents. The pre-feasibility and feasibility studies were expected to be approved
  by the SNIP.
 No resettlement in Machu Picchu Pueblo was to be carried out as analysis of risk
  financed with a GFDRR grant suggested the entire town was at risk, not just the 60
  families originally identified. Activities were changed to focus on the design and
  implementation of an early warning system and other risk management measures.

Component III: Local Economic Development
 Training program for tourism service providers was eliminated as it duplicated
  training already provided by private operators and the resources were reallocated to
  other activities.

Component IV: Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Building
 No changes were introduced to this component.

Component V: Project Management.
 Addition of a second regionally-based PIU (COPESCO) and reallocation of the
  project activities among the two PIUs. Specifically, COPESCO was given
  responsibility for:
    Component I: Tourism Capacity Building            Visitor Services
                                                          Interpretation Centers
                                                          Tourist services along Inca Trail
                                                          Pedestrian access for tourists
                                                          Signage for historic monuments

                                                      Historic preservation activities
    Component II:            Urban   Services   and   Solid Waste--Detailed feasibility study
    Infrastructure Rehabilitation
                                                      Urban Development/ Disaster               Mitigation
                                                      Activities in Machu Picchu Pueblo

                                                      Rehabilitation of existing urban storm drainage in
                                                      selected municipalities
    Component III: Local Economic Development         None – all implemented by MINCETUR
    Component IV:        Strategic Planning and       Urban and rural land use plans for the two
    Municipal Capacity Building                       provincial and four district municipalities




                                                 6
1.7 Other significant changes

15. During the January 2009 corrective restructuring, significant changes were
introduced in the Project, although the PDO itself was not changed. The main reason for
restructuring was that the original design was unrealistically ambitious in terms of both
time and funding required to undertake the activities envisaged at appraisal. Other
reasons for restructuring were to: (i) improve and accelerate Project implementation by
decentralizing and transferring specific Project subcomponents from MINCETUR to the
Regional Government of Cuzco (GRC); (ii) adjust Project subcomponents to the changes
in local circumstances and Government priorities that had taken place since Project
inception, making better use of the Project‘s limited funds by financing feasibility studies
and engineering designs that would generate an infrastructure project pipeline for the
Vilcanota Valley; (iii) restate the Project Results Framework and outcome indicators
accordingly; and (iv) improve fiduciary and safeguards performance.

16. In addition to the changes in components and key indicators, the other main changes
resulting from the restructuring were:
 Establishment of an onlending and repayment mechanism: As the restructuring for
    the first time provided for onlending of loan proceeds from MEF to the Cusco
    Regional Government, a new mechanism had to be developed and piloted for
    onlending and for repayment.
 Revised implementation arrangements: Addition of a second PIU by transferring
    from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (MINCETUR) to the Cusco
    Regional Government (GRC) responsibility for implementing specific
    subcomponents (totaling USD 4.7 million or 57% of the total project cost );
    streamlining and simplifying Project implementation procedures, specifically by
    standardizing the procurement committees; enhancing Government ownership and
    creating an additional accountability mechanism by introducing an inter-institutional
    Steering Committee.
 Safeguards: Recategorizing the project from ―B‖ to ―A‖ for safeguards—although
    the restructuring also eliminated works related to solid waste-related, it was decided
    to categorize the project as a category ―A‖ because of the high visibility of the area.
 Closing Date: Extending the Closing Date by 24 months to June 30, 2011.

Summary of Projected Total Costs by Component (original /after restructuring)
 Components                                     Appraisal         % of      Restructured      % of
                                                Estimate (USD     Total    Estimate (USD      Total
                                                millions)                     millions)
 1.  Tourism Capacity Building and                         2.63       32               2.56      31
     Infrastructure Development
 2. Urban Services and Infrastructure                      3.04       37              2.31       28
     Rehabilitation
 3. Local Economic Development                             0.95       12              0.91       11
 4. Strategic Planning and Municipal                       1.01       13              0.90       11
     Capacity Building
 5. Project Management                                     0.52        6              1.50       18
 Total project costs                                       8.15    100.0             8.18*    100.0
 * Minor differences due to exchange rate changes



                                                    7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

17. Background Analysis. The Project was built on years of experience by UNESCO,
the Finnish Government, National Geographic Society, World Monuments Fund and
others, and furthered the agenda to address environmental, urban and institutional
problems that have arisen as a result of increased tourism to the Vilcanota Valley. The
project also built on a previous consultation process in the HSMP and the Sacred Valley
conducted by a local NGO and a Social and Institutional risk analysis prepared by a
prestigious local research institution.

18. Participatory Process. The project was designed in a participatory manner.
Extensive Bank consultation with local mayors, council members, community
organizations and regional representatives on key development priorities took place over
five missions between March 2003 and March 2004. A central theme from the
consultation process was the recommendation that the project should focus broadly on
promoting integrated regional development of which sustainable tourism development
would be one component. In particular, participants agreed on critical development
priorities including: (i) improved access to basic urban services; (ii) pollution control and
enhanced environmental management; (iii) the further integration of local residents into
the tourism economy; and (iv) support for rural communities through agricultural and
infrastructure development. Development priorities articulated during the consultation
process were reflected in the project design.

19. Assessment of Project Design. The PDO was overly ambitious especially given the
small size of the loan, which was limited by the country‘s then debt ceiling to only USD
5 million. Project design was complex with a multitude of small multi-sectoral activities
that lacked synergies and that involved different stakeholders. The institutional
assessment was weak as MINCETUR lacked experience in implementing infrastructure
projects and also was not able to effectively implement the Project from Lima.
Furthermore, the original four-year Project implementation schedule appears in retrospect
to have been overly optimistic.

20. Risk Assessment. Risks related to political instability both at national and local
levels, potential reputational issues due to the high visibility of the Project, and the
complex regulatory and institutional factors were identified during Project preparation,
and the overall Project risk rating was high. Mitigation measures to counteract these risks
were not well thought out and were mainly comprised of inter-institutional agreements
with the involved institutions and a public information campaign that would enable rapid
and wide disclosure of project information and proactive engagement with local, national
and international media. During Project implementation, most of these risks materialized,
such as the implementation delays due to the complex Project design and institutional
arrangements. Additionally, issues related to unforeseen risks delayed project
implementation. MINCETUR‘s lack of experience implementing infrastructure projects




                                             8
or its distant location from the Sacred Valley, were not taken into account during Project
design.

2.2 Implementation

21. Prior to Restructuring. At the time of Mid Term Review in June 2007, only about
3% of loan proceeds had been disbursed; however, no serious consideration was given to
restructuring until task management changed in September 2007. The main factors
explaining the slow implementation before restructuring include:

22. Legal dispute over applicability of World Bank procurement procedures and
procurement freeze prior to 2006 national elections. After effectiveness implementation
was delayed by a nine-month legal dispute with the national procurement agency,
Consejo Superior de Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado (CONSUCODE), as to
whether Bank or national procurement procedures would apply. The resolution of this
issue involved a change in the law to establish that the lender‘s procurement procedures
apply regardless of the proportion of a project that is externally financed. This was
followed by a three-month freeze on all procurement processes before the 2006 national
elections.

23. Complexity of Project design. The design required a large number of small sectoral
subcomponents with different stakeholders. Different institutions were involved in the
different activities. In practice this meant different institutions were responsible for
oversight and providing counterpart funding for the different activities (requiring many
Memorandums of Understanding as well as the establishment of a different procurement
committee for each activity).

24. PIU’s limited experience and location. Internal MINCETUR administrative
procedures (financial management and procurement) were complex and lengthy, the PIU
lacked experience with implementing infrastructure investments and the location of the
primary Project staff in Lima created spatial difficulties that were difficult to overcome.

25. Restructuring. By December 2007 the Project was downgraded to ‖Unsatisfactory‖
for both PDO and Implementation Progress. After agreeing on the need for restructuring
earlier that fall, an additional two years was needed to prepare and process the
restructuring and to make the first disbursement to COPESCO. The Board approved the
restructuring in early January 2009, effectiveness was officially declared in July 2009,
but actual effectiveness came only in late September 2009 when a mechanism for
providing the recourses was finally agreed to with MEF. The main reasons for the
lengthy time required included:

26. Changing the Safeguards Category from B to Category A. The Bank decision to
change the safeguards designation from Category B to Category A (see Safeguards
section below) meant the project needed to develop safeguards frameworks and consult
them appropriately. This required large amounts of time and extensive negotiations with




                                            9
the Borrower to explain why the restructured project, which would have less impact
because it would finance fewer works, should be designated as a Category A.

27. Changing counterpart and institutional arrangements. The restructured project
eliminated the need for many different institutions to provide counterpart funding, but
explaining this and discussing it with the involved stakeholders required a long process of
consultations with Municipalities, community representatives and other local
stakeholders, the GoP and GRC over the course of several Bank missions on the nature
and extent of the proposed changes.

28. Processing within the Peruvian system. The processing required within Peru,
including the preparation of a new Proyecto de Inversión Pública (PIP) document and its
approval by the Sistema Nacional de Inversión Publica (SNIP) (MEF‘s economic
analysis tool).

29. Developing an onlending/repayment mechanism. The restructuring meant that an
onlending and repayment mechanism for the portion of the resources that were to be lent
to the Cusco Regional Government had to be developed. This was the first time in Peru
that this type of arrangement had been carried out with World Bank funds. The
preparation and clearance by the Bank of subsidiary agreements governing the
relationships between MEF and GRC and between MINCETUR and GRC also required
significant time.

30. Post-Restructuring. Once the restructuring was approved and all institutional
arrangements were cleared in Peru, less than two years (twenty-one months) were left for
COPESCO to implement the reallocated activities. COPESCO´s PIU had no previous
experience with Bank funded Projects, thus its staff had to be trained on Bank procedures,
specifically regarding fiduciary and safeguards issues. Despite the short time available,
COPESCO was able to initiate all activities, including contracting the solid waste studies.
In February 2011, the Peruvian government requested a second extension in the Loan
closing date, but given the Project‘s age and the status of the different activities the Bank
decided not to extend the project. Activities that were not finished at time of Project
closing have continued with financing from CRG.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

31. The Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project was poorly designed. Indicators
included in the original results framework were not realistic and many of them could not
be directly attributed to Project‘s performance. Additionally, the indicators included in
the Loan Agreement do not correspond with those in the Project Appraisal Document.2




2
    This ICR uses the indicators in the legal agreements.




                                                       10
32. Many indicators did not have a baseline and end-of-project targets were not
established. Data availability was not considered when selecting the indicators and thus
many indicators were never monitored. Monitoring was also challenging as the
Implementation Status and Result Report (ISR) format on indicators changed several
times during project implementation. Prior to and during restructuring, monitoring and
evaluation was poorly registered in the Bank‘s ISRs. The ISR filed in December 2007
identified the need to revise the PDO and outcome indicators as well as to establish a
monitoring and results framework during the proposed Project restructuring.

33. The subsequent Project restructuring did not change the PDO as it was decided that
the PDO was sufficiently general to support the revised activities and as the central
Government position on changes being proposed was very inflexible. However, the
project restructuring changed the key indicators, the results framework and the
implementation progress indicators. The key indicators were adjusted according to the
restructured Project scope and activities. The results framework was simplified into fewer
indicators that were closely linked to each activity and were easily measurable; however,
the indicators monitored in the Bank‘s ISRs did not fully correspond to those in the Loan
Agreement. This lack of alignment was adjusted in the last ISR, filed on June 2011. On
the Government‘s side, MINCETUR prepared integrated Progress Reports every 6
months including activities performed by both implementing units.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34. Safeguards Compliance. The Project was originally rated as a Category ―B‖ the
following safeguards were triggered during Project preparation: (i) environmental
assessment, (ii) cultural property and (iii) involuntary resettlement. During the January
2009 restructuring the Project was reclassified as a Category ―A‖ even though
environmental impacts were expected to be lower because of elimination of many of the
works. The change reflected a recognition that the overall environmental and social
sensitivity of the area warranted an ―A‖. At the same time the elimination of the bridges
and landfills meant that the only works involved monument preservation and the Project
was primarily a technical assistance Project that would prepare studies for works
expected to be financed during a subsequent Project. During restructuring, the
indigenous peoples and the natural habitats policies were also triggered, while the
resettlement policy was no longer triggered.

35. Environmental Assessment. Throughout the project, there was a consistent
application of screening/scoping mechanisms to determine the level of depth and detail of
the environmental assessment to be conducted for each sub-component. Each study
included an environmental management plan (EMP) that was then monitored throughout
implementation. Environmental assessments and EMPs were prepared for improvement
of pedestrian accesses to monuments, services for tourists at the Inca trail and in the
improvement of archaeological sites. These were properly consulted with a wide range of
stakeholders. The project also included the preparation of investments in the future, and
environmental assessments were thus initiated for the Ollantaytambo bypass road and the




                                           11
Vilcanota Valley solid waste management. Field visits witnessed the adequate level of
implementation of the EMPs in the restoration works.

36. Natural Habitat. Some activities were conducted within the Machu Picchu area.
Natural habitats considerations were included, with a detailed process of consultation and
improvement of management plans. There were no works in the area, rather preparation
of protocols in case of emergency and expansion of early warning systems

37. Physical Cultural Property. The project was designed to have a positive impact on
cultural property. In fact, the restoration works implemented by COPESCO were
specifically targeted to prevent some pre-Hispanic structures from collapsing, and served
to bring more value to the sites and strengthening understanding of cultural heritage for
development. COPESCO is a well experienced entity in handling and stewardship of
physical cultural property, and very specific and detailed procedures for chance findings,
physical handling of objects, and overall improvement and valuation of PCR were
mainstreamed in their activities. This includes very tight coordination with the Instituto
Nacional de Cultura, entity in charge of Peru's vast cultural heritage, and permits and
frequent visits from INC witnessed the quality of work. It also included detailed
consultation processes with communities and other stakeholders.

38. Resettlement. The resettlement safeguard was triggered originally but then
detriggered during Project restructuring. In practice, the Category A designation and the
close involvement of the team in the studies meant resettlement issues were adequately
reflected in the TORs for the main studies (solid waste and the Ollantaytambo Bypass
road).

39. Fiduciary Compliance. After the re-structuring of the Vilcanota project, two
entities took the responsibility to implement the project. Therefore both entities,
MINCETUR and Plan COPESCO undertook overall responsibility for the management
of the funds of the project. A project implementation unit (PIU) was created in both
entities which worked in close coordination with the respective General Administrative
Office (OGA) on the financial management aspects. Processes and procedures were
stated in the Operational Manual of the project. These processes and procedures
functioned well during project implementation in both entities. During implementation,
both PIUs were staffed with qualified and experience fiduciary staff who remained along
the project implementation; this fact contributed to create capacity to manage the funds of
the project. Both entities have accompany have complied with the timely submission of
IFRs; being MINCETUR the responsible entity to consolidate the financial reports
submitted by Plan COPESCO. For budgeting and accounting purposes both entities have
used the official financial integrated system (SIAF) and the module for project execution
(MEP_SIAF) which permitted to classify expenditures by components/categories of the
project. The audit reports of the project for period 2008 and 2009 were submitted with
delay to the Bank and this fact affected the FM performance rating of the project during
those periods. However, MINCETUR/ Plan COPESCO have been able to overcome the
shortcoming related to the audit, and the audit for period 2010 was submitted on time.
According to the last FM supervision performed to the Project, the FM performance



                                            12
rating assigned to the Project was Moderately Satisfactory and the Overall FM risk of the
Project was rated as moderate. Procurement rating has been moderately satisfactory since
July 2010, and no substantial issues were encountered.

40. A second procurement assessment carried out for the restructuring rated
performance as Moderately Satisfactory and a series of operational measures were
implemented to streamline implementation, including: (i) reducing the number of
procurement processes through the consolidation of project activities into fewer
packages; (ii) simplifying procurement arrangements by using a single procurement
committee instead of a different one for each procurement process; and (iii) training of
PIU, MINCETUR and COPESCO staff in Bank procurement and financial management.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

41. The Project contributed to the decentralization agenda in Peru by working with the
Cusco Regional Government (CRG) through its implementing agency PER Plan
COPESCO. The inclusion of COPESCO as an implementing entity and the development
of a new mechanism for repayment of the portion of the loan that was onlent to the CRG
have helped opening up a new modality for the Bank to work with regional government
directly. This was the first step towards building capacity in the Cusco Region to work
with multilateral organizations, which has been complemented by the technical support
provided by the sub-nationals team of the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
(PPIAF/SNTA). This experience will be built on for the next operation, a much larger
loan to the Cusco Regional Government for a Cusco Regional Development Project
(PRODER Cusco) which will build on the solid waste, disaster risk and planning work
from the original Project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42. The Project development objective remains highly relevant and is consistent with
the current Bank strategy (the draft CPS under development), the Bank‘s Country
Partnership Strategy 2007-2011 and national and regional development plans including,
for example, the 2021 Development Plan of the Regional Government of Cusco (Plan
Estratégico de Desarrollo Regional Concertado, Cusco a 2021) which promotes the
development of economic productivity in the region with the growth in tourism activity
as a key element. The inclusion of COPESCO as an implementing agency and the
agreement to onlend Bank resources to CRG/COPESCO meant the Project was fully
aligned to the government of Peru‘s decentralization efforts.

43. Project design was of only limited relevance for achievement of the ambitious PDO
as the Project consisted of a large number of small activities (primarily studies) that
lacked synergies and did not support the ambitious PDO. Despite the major restructuring
in January 2009 simplifying and focusing the design proved difficult as major
stakeholders including MEF were reluctant to drop or change activities that were



                                           13
included in the original project. The participatory process adopted for the restructuring
was lengthy and by the time the project was restructured there was no longer sufficient
time for implementation by the newly added PIU, COPESCO.

44. Project implementation was initially of limited relevance as the use of a national
implementing entity with little experience with infrastructure and with key Project staff in
Lima meant little was accomplished during the first years. The January 2009
restructuring increased the relevance of Project implementation by decentralizing part of
the Project to the CRG/COPESCO. The decision to pilot onlending and a repayment
mechanism is highly relevant for decentralization.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

45. The PDO focused on supporting the Government of Peru's efforts to enhance the
environmental and socio-economic sustainability of historical, cultural and ecological
assets in the Vilcanota Valley including the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu (HSMP)
and the Sacred Valley of the Incas. Given the very ambitious and general nature of the
PDO, assessment of the key indicators is used to provide guidance on the actual PDO
both before and after the January 2009 restructuring when the key indicators were
changed, although the PDO was not.

46. Prior to restructuring, operational difficulties and shortcomings in the institutional
arrangements meant that the Project was neither making progress towards the PDO nor
was it making progress on the key indicators. For this reason, the outcome of the
Project‘s on the PDO prior to restructuring is rated as Unsatisfactory.

47. Project performance improved after the restructuring and some of the key indicators
were achieved; however, neither of the Outcome indicators were fully achieved as both
referred to the Ollantaytambo Road and Rail Bypass studies, which were never finalized.
In part this was because the Consultant did not keep to the agreed timetable, but in part
this reflected the complexity of the alternatives, the sensitivity of the location and the
lack of buy in from the local population, which was strongly opposed to any solution
involving relocation of the train station and the economic opportunities it represented.

48. The main results achieved after Project restructuring included:

49. Piloting a decentralized approach to Project implementation. The restructuring
added a regional entity, COPESCO, as the second PIU. This decentralization in
implementation arrangements was complemented by an agreement to onlend a portion of
the Project to CRG. This decision reflected the Government‘s strong commitment to
decentralization and the recognition of the importance of creating frameworks for regions
to take on responsibilities for their own development priorities, including accessing
financing. In order to allow on-lending, the Government and CRG developed a formal
transfer mechanism for the loan proceeds and also agreed on a repayment mechanism (an



                                            14
intercept on future transfers). The mechanism is working well and will be used for the
PRODER-Cusco Project and likely for other projects as well.

50. Developing a sound technical basis for improving urban services and infrastructure.
The Project supported development of a solid waste management study, which was well
underway at Project closing and is being finished with resources from the CRG. This
study is laying the groundwork for a comprehensive solid waste management system
covering Cusco and the towns in the Sacred Valley which has been included in the
PRODER-Cusco Project, currently under preparation.

51. Technical studies carried out during the Project have also resulted in a far better
understanding of the natural disaster risks for residents and visitors in Machu Picchu
Pueblo. Although the original aim was to relocate 60 households, this was dropped after
the entire population of MPP was identified as being at risk. The activity was
subsequently reoriented to focus on risk management such as an Emergency Response
Plan (which has been adopted) and an early warning system (which was piloted and
subsequently redesigned). Most importantly, the activities have contributed to building
consensus among central, regional and local Government officials as well as among
private sector stakeholders such as tour operators and local residents of the inherent risks.
This is an important prerequisite for finding a longer term and sustainable solution to the
town‘s high-risk location.

52. Strengthening planning and building municipal capacity. The Vilcanota Valley
multi-territorial plan, municipal territorial plans, and a strategic environmental
assessment were all completed under the Project. The strategic environmental
assessment included specific recommendations for mitigating potential negative
environmental impacts resulting from touristic, industrial, agricultural, and territorial
activities, and it was socialized with the municipalities in the Sacred Valley and Cusco.
The recently finished territorial plans are currently being socialized with the relevant
municipalities in anticipation of formal adoption later this calendar year. The territorial
plans will allow Municipalities to promote their development according to their potential
areas of growth while considering the environmental and socio-economic sustainability
of their assets. Discussions with the municipalities reflected good awareness of these
tools and strong interest in using them.

53. Enhancing tourism capacity. Although the Ollantaytambo Rail and Bypass Road
studies have not been satisfactorily completed, other activities were more successful and
have made a modest contribution to tourism capacity building. A study on the carrying
capacity for the Inca Trail and the Machu Picchu Sanctuary was completed and has raised
awareness of the need to better manage visits so as not to exceed the physical and
infrastructure capacities of these sites. Additionally, the tourism awareness program for
children and communities produced educational materials and trained local teachers and
will be rolled out to schools across the region. The Project also financed studies and
designs for providing pedestrian access to historic monuments and sanitation services on
the Inca Trail. The works have been included in COPESCO‘s recent tourism
development plan as time under the Project was insufficient for implementation.



                                             15
COPESCO also used Project funds to restore a large part of two historic agricultural
monuments, generating local employment and strong local ownership in strengthening
understanding of cultural heritage for development and engaging in local economic
activities aligned to tourism development.

54. Given that many activities were not completed by Project closing and that few of the
key indicator targets were met while taking into account the actual impact of the Project,
the rating after the restructuring is determined to be Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

55. At appraisal the Net Present Value (at a 14% discount rate) was calculated to be
US$12.71 million with an Internal Rate of Return of 44.9%. As the restructuring
eliminated most of the works and replaced them with studies, neither the NPV nor the
IRR were recalculated at completion. Additionally, the methodology that was used for
the original calculation and for two cost-benefit analyses carried out by the Government
assumed that any increase in visitors, and any increase in length of stay, would directly
result from the Project. Given that the number of visitors has much increased, repeating
the NPV/IRR analysis would likely show a positive return; however, in reality this would
not be due to the Project, but due to external factors.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

56. As detailed above, the Project objective remained relevant although it was far too
broad and ambitious especially in the context of the overall size of the Project. There was
poor relevance of Project design, which included a large number of small activities
lacking synergies and not effectively supporting the PDO. PDO indicators were
substantially not achieved as many activities were not fully implemented. Initial
implementation arrangements did not provide the strong local presence needed for
effective implementation. Restructuring took nearly two years from start to first
disbursement, which meant it was completed without adequate time for implementation
by COPESCO. More positively, the disaster risk analysis for Machu Picchu is changing
mindsets and behaviors and is reflected in adoption of an emergency response plan. The
solid waste studies have been financed with other resources and their recommendations
will be implemented in the Cusco Regional Development Project (PRODER Cusco),
which is currently in preparation and which will build on the decentralized approach as
well as the on-lending and repayment mechanism developed for the original Project.
Finally, The CRG is providing funding to complete other activities initiated under the
Project.

57. Following OPCS guidelines, given that the Project was formally restructured and the
key indicators were changed, the overall outcome was assessed considering separate
ratings for the original and revised objective, weighting each rating in proportion to the
share of actual credit funds disbursed before and after the approval of the revision. The



                                            16
Project was rated Unsatisfactory against the original PDO (weighted value of 2 x 0.17=
0.34) and rated Moderately Unsatisfactory against the revised project objective (weighted
value of 3 x 0.83= 2.49).3 Thus, the weighted average score is 2.83 (0.34 + 2.49), which
would represent a final rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory with rounding.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
NA

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

58. The Project contributed substantially to institutional development and strengthening
in the Cusco Region. By including PER Plan COPESCO as an implementing agency
during the restructuring, the Region‘s institutional capacity, particularly within
COPESCO PIU, was greatly enhanced through Bank‘s support and training on fiduciary
and safeguards issues. Even further, a new modality for the Bank to work directly with
regional governments was developed under the Project, including a new mechanism for
repayment of the portion of the loan that was onlent to the CRG. The Project constituted
the first step towards building capacity in the Cusco Region to work with multilateral
organizations, which has been complemented by technical support from the
PPIAF/SNTA team.

59. As a result of the onlending arrangement with Cusco and the CRG‘s strong interest
in additional borrowing, PPIAF/SNTA financed a credit worthiness assessment of the
CRG. Based on the financial information review and considering other social and
institutional factors, an independent Risk Rating Agency assigned a BBB- risk rating for
the CRG´s long term debt. This rating is assigned to institutions or financial instruments
that present adequate capacity to meet its financial commitments, both capital and
interests, in the agreed conditions and timeline, although adverse economic conditions or
changing circumstances might weaken their‘ capacity to meet its financial commitments.
The creditworthiness assessment, in turn, has been important for MEF in terms of
evaluating Cusco‘s suitability for a larger future loan from the World Bank.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not Applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable




3
  The total disbursed amount as of September 30, 2011 was USD 4.23M, USD 0.72M were disbursed prior
to restructuring and USD 3.51 post restructuring.


                                                17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

60. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to supporting the sustainable
development of Cusco Region by participating in the preparation of a new Project with
the CRG, the PRODER-Cusco. PRODER-Cusco which will use several key Project
outputs for implementing its activities, specifically for the Solid Waste Management
System and the Disaster Risk Management components.

61. Since the Project‘s main outcomes are studies, no operation and maintenance (O&M)
arrangements were considered. The restoration works on historic monuments currently
implemented by COPESCO is being funded with their own resources, which indicates
strong commitment towards the Project‘s activities. Overall sustainability is likely given
strong local ownership of Project studies by the regional and municipal governments.

62. Outcomes related to the socio-economic development, mainly those associated with
the local economic development component, might face some risks related to financial
sustainability and O&M. To mitigate this risk, sustainable management plans have been
created and MINCETUR is following up on the activities implemented under the
component with the involved municipalities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

63. The rating is based on the Bank‘s performance in identifying, facilitating preparation
and appraising an operation such that it was most likely to achieve planned development
outcomes. Despite the evidence of close collaboration between the Bank and the
Borrower during Project preparation, the extensive consultation processes, and the
consideration of previous experiences in the Sacred Valley, there were significant failures
in Project design. The PDO was overly ambitious especially given the small size of the
available financing. The Project consisted of a large number of small activities, many of
which did not contribute to the PDO and which did not complement one another to create
synergies. Cost estimates were unrealistic and it was not possible to implement all the
planned activities with the available funds.

64. The original institutional arrangements, risk mitigation measures, and the monitoring
and evaluation system all had serious shortcomings. In retrospect, the decision to locate
the PIU in Lima for a regional Project in Cusco seems shortsighted. Additionally,
locating Project implementation within MINCETUR, which lacked expertise in many of
the key activities (i.e., solid waste management, the Ollantantaymbo Bypass, the
territorial plans, among others). Although the Project had been categorized as a high risk


                                            18
Project, mitigation measures were not aggressive enough. Finally, the monitoring and
evaluation design had critical flaws. The targets were highly ambitious, difficult to
monitor and not linked to Project components. No baseline study was conducted and little
thought was given to the mechanisms for data collection.

65. Additionally, the economic and financial analysis was methodologically weak and
assumed that any increase in visitors or in time spent by visitors in the Sacred Valley
should be directly attributed to the Project‘s envisioned investments.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

66. Project supervision prior to the change in task management in fall 2007 was
Unsatisfactory. Although only 3% of funds had been disbursed by the Mid-Term Review
in June 2007 no serious consideration was given to restructuring. The quality of
supervision improved after the September 2007 change in task management and
subsequent supervision missions were timely and solution oriented. The use of regular
follow-up video-conferences, and the trainings provided to the PIUs in procurement,
financial management and safeguards issues reflected the more operational orientation of
the team and resulted in improved Project performance. The overall rating of Moderately
Unsatisfactory reflects the lengthy time prior to the change in task management when
supervision improved to Moderately Satisfactory.

67. Procurement. The sheer number of procurement processes combined with low
thresholds for prior review meant many no objections were required and frequently
resulted in delays by the Bank due to lengthy time for reviews. Since COPESCO had no
previous experience with Bank procedures, post-restructuring Procurement support was
key for successful contracting of all activities implemented by the new PIU at COPESCO.

68. Safeguard supervision. The Bank provided continuous support to the client‘s
safeguards team, first in MINCETUR and after restructuring in COPESCO. Although no
large works were conducted under the Project, several of the studies had important
safeguards ramifications, including the studies for the Ollantaytambo road and rail bypass
and for solid waste. The Bank ensured proper safeguards compliance by actively guiding
and advising the specialists at COPESCO on the Bank‘s policies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

69. Overall rating reflects the balance between the Bank performance in ensuring quality
at entry (U) and quality of supervision (MS).

5.2 Borrower Performance




                                           19
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

70. Government performance was mixed. Prior to restructuring, performance was
characterized by a lengthy legal dispute over application of the Bank‘s procurement
guidelines, a volatile political situation due to national elections, and insufficient
counterpart funding. Although the central Government showed strong commitment
towards the Project, its inflexible attitude to the proposed changes during restructuring,
aimed at simplifying and improving Project implementation, resulted in further delays
and little simplification. Poor coordination between the different government levels also
contributed to difficulties in resolving implementation issues. On a local level, municipal
elections also changed the political environment and affected implementation of some
activities. The Project also suffered setbacks in some participating municipalities after
local elections.

71. In spite of these difficulties both the central and Cusco regional governments have
been fully committed to finishing activities initiated under the Project. This is
particularly true for CRG/COPESCO activities where key activities (solid waste
management, urban planning/ disaster risk) will be part of the new Cusco Regional
Development Project and where other activities (access roads to monuments, monument
restoration) have been included in the newly approved COPESCO tourism development
plan. Additionally, despite initial delays in counterpart financing, both levels of
Government provided counterpart funding above original expectations.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

72. The rating reflects the different performance levels of the two implementing agencies
(MINCETUR and COPESCO), as well as their generally improving performance during
the life of the Project. It should also be noted that Bank support during the first several
years of supervision was Unsatisfactory, which compounded difficulties with the design
and implementation arrangements.

73. Prior to restructuring in early 2009, MINCETUR was the sole implementing agency.
Issues with design and a weak institutional analysis resulted in poor performance as
MINCETUR struggled to implement activities outside its mandate and experience that
were taking place in another part of the country. Contracts for solid waste and the
Bypass Road for Ollantaytambo are good examples of areas where MINCETUR staff had
little expertise and had to rely heavily on other agencies for support. Bank procurement
procedures and contract management were particularly challenging as was provision of
counterpart financing. The termination of one contract led to arbitration and the
subsequent reopening of the contract by the arbitrator while a second contract may still
end up in arbitration. More positively MINCETUR was reasonably successful in
implementing tourism related activities, such as the tourism awareness program for
children and communities, the geo-tourism maps of the Vilcanota Valley, and the
carrying capacity study for the Inca Trail and the Machu Picchu Sanctuary.



                                            20
74. During restructuring, many activities were re-assigned to COPESCO, fiduciary and
training activities were carried out and financial management and procurement activities
became more efficient, resulting in an overall assessment of fiduciary as moderately
satisfactory. Additionally, COPESCO had sufficient resources for counterpart financing,
which meant it was no longer necessary to negotiate counterpart financing activity by
activity. Despite COPESCO‘s lack of experience with Bank procedures and the very
limited amount of time it had to carry out its activities (only 21 months), COPESCO staff
managed to contract and adequately supervise the most critical activities, including the
solid waste management study, the risk management activities for Machu Picchu Pueblo,
and the land use plans. .

75. Safeguards. A general shortcoming was the limited attention paid to safeguard
requirements prior to restructuring, although no social or environmental negative impacts
due to the Project have been observed. During restructuring, it was decided that the
Project‘s safeguards team would be located within COPESCO, due its close proximity to
the field and this was effective in ensuring all safeguards were observed. However,
limited coordination between MINCETUR and COPESCO on safeguards resulted in
lengthy revision procedures and contradicting messages to consultants and contractors
managed by MINCETUR. Moreover, the safeguards team was not always adequately
staffed. Some of the activities related to realignment of the Communications Strategy
were hampered by the lack of a communications specialist on the Project team during
part of 2010. Considering the Project‘s high visibility and reputational risk, the
communications and social strategy should have been much stronger than they were.

76. Financial Management. During implementation, both PIUs were staffed with
qualified and experience fiduciary staff who remained throughout project implementation,
which was important for developing and maintain the capacity to manage Project funds.
Under MINCETUR‘s leadership, IFRs from both PIUs were compiled and submitted in a
timely manner. The audit reports of the project for period 2008 and 2009 were submitted
with delay to the Bank and this fact affected the FM performance rating of the project
during those periods. However, MINCETUR/ Plan COPESCO were able to overcome
the shortcoming related to the audit, and the audit for period 2010 was submitted on time
and the audit for 2011 was nearly completed by end October 2011.

77. After Project closing, both MINCETUR‘s and COPESCO‘s key staff members
remained to perform the required closing activities and to ensure an orderly transition.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78. Based on the above, Borrower overall performance is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.




                                           21
6. Lessons Learned

79. The main lessons learned under this Project were the following:

a. Project design should be simple with a well focused PDO supported by a limited
number of activities that should have strong synergies especially for small projects like
this one. The Project attempted to address a broad range of multi-sectoral issues ranging
from cultural heritage preservation to regional development and provision of basic
infrastructure services. Addressing this complex range of themes required multiple
institutions and large teams on both the Bank and the Government side. Participatory
processes only contributed to the excessive scope and complexity of the original design.

Centralized implementation arrangements are inappropriate for a decentralizing country
where Project activities are concentrated in one area. The location of the original PIU in
Lima was a major reason why the Project failed to implement and required an expensive
and time consuming restructuring process.

b. Participatory processes during Project preparation will not substitute for efficient
inter-institutional coordination mechanisms. Some activities required coordination
among several institutions at different government level, such as the revisions and
approvals of the feasibility studies. Poor inter-institutional coordination and
communication created delays and often contradicting messages to the consultant.

c. Small      and     complex    projects  incur   the  same    preparation    and
supervision/management costs as larger projects and the cost effectiveness of small
projects should be considered. Preparing and supervising this USD 5 million loan
required over USD 1 million in resources from various World Bank sources as well as
additional resources from the Government.

d. Fiduciary capacity needs to be addressed early in the Project cycle. The Bank team
supported intensive training in procurement and financial management but this was not
done early enough in the Project cycle and resulted in large delays in disbursements.
The decision to prior review all contracts adopted during the Restructuring reduced
procurement risk but also created substantial delays for the Borrower while waiting for
Bank no objections.

e. Safeguards ratings should be established at Project inception and not increased
midway through a Project. The decision by the Bank to use the restructuring (which in
reality reduced overall safeguards risk by eliminating most of the works and focusing the
Project on technical assistance activities) to change the safeguards categorization from ―B‖
to ―A‖ (reflecting, in essence, the Bank‘s concern that the original rating was ―incorrect‖)
contributed to the lengthy time to restructure and required large amounts of additional
work by both the Bank and the Borrower.




                                            22
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments from PER Plan COPESCO:

80. The training processes (fiduciary and procurement) provided were insufficient; they
need to be extended to technical issues, safeguards, internships or visits to pilot
experiences that may contribute globally to an improved performance.

81. The co-implementation by the CRG through PER Plan COPESCO has implied an
important experience because it has been possible to respond in a satisfactory way within
the limitations mainly of the short timeframe (21 months) for [carrying out] 60% of the
activities, in which the WB procedures for consultants as well as for execution of works
using direct administration [force account] have been complied with.

82. The Cusco RG, based on a credit rating promoted by PPIAF/SNTA and conducted
by an independent credit rating agency, set a BBB- rating for long term debt and the
performance of PER Plan COPESCO as implementer has been strengthened in the
perspective of developing new projects involving borrowing from the World Bank for
higher amounts.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                           23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                  Percentage of
          Components          Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                   Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)
Component I: Tourism
Capacity Building and                 2.63             2.48            94
Infrastructure Development
Component II: Urban Services
                                      3.04             1.88            62
and Infrastructure
Rehabilitation

Component III: Local                  0.95             0.84            88
Economic Development

Component IV: Strategic               1.01             1.05           104
Planning and Municipal
Capacity Building

Component V: Project                  0.52             2.61           502
Management
         Total Baseline Cost          8.15             8.87           109
Physical Contingencies
                                      0.00             0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                      0.00             0.00           0.00
          Total Project Costs         8.15             8.87           109
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00             0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.05             0.05           100
   Total Financing Required           8.20             8.92           109

(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Late
                                   Type of     Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                 Cofinancing     (USD        (USD    of Appraisal
                                               millions)   millions)
Borrower                                     3.22        2.43        .75
International Bank for
                                             4.98        4.23        .85
Reconstruction and Development




                                       24
Annex 2. Original and Restructured Performance Indicators

Original Performance Indicators per Component
C   Performance Indicators             Origin    Achieved   Executing   Progress Status by May 2007
                                       al        Target     Agency      (pre-restructuring)
                                       Target
1   Number of tourism employees        500       -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    trained in
    eco-tourism principles
1   Number of tourism facilities       3         -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    incorporating green
    technologies
1   Number of telecenters, visitor     9         5          MINCETUR    Partly achieved. 5 telecenters
-   interpretation centers and                                          were completed.
3   visitor facilities on the Inca
    Trail
3   Number of person-years in          500       -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    employment
    generated by the project
    activities
3   Number of Small Grant              6         6          MINCETUR    Achieved. Small Grant
    Agreements                                                          Agreements were signed with
                                                                        all six participating
                                                                        municipalities by 05/28/2007
4   Number of municipal and            200       -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    regional staff
    and community members
    trained in ecotourism,
    eco-industrial networking, and
    sustainability principles
4   Number of municipalities with      6         -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    an
    address-based geographic
    information
    system
4   Number of municipalities with      3         -          MINCETUR    Not monitored.
    a revenue
    Increase

Revised Performance Indicators per Component
C   Performance Indicators            Original   Achieved   Executing   Comments
                                      Target     Target     Agency
1   Feasibility study approved by     1          0          MINCETUR    Not achieved. The feasibility
    SNIP and engineering                                                study was not approved by
    designs for bypass road                                             SNIP. Draft engineering
    around the historic town of                                         designs were completed but
    Ollantaytambo                                                       are still under revision by the
                                                                        Ministry of Transport and
                                                                        Communications.
1   Number of historic                6          3          COPESCO     Partly achieved. Although
    architectural, agricultural and                                     only three sites were partially
    hydraulic structures restored                                       restored, the extension of the
                                                                        restored area amounts to more



                                                     25
                                                               than 500% of the original
                                                               intervention area planned for
                                                               the 6 sites. Nonetheless, the
                                                               implementation progress of
                                                               restoration works was only
                                                               50% at Project closing.
1   Signage system for             2     0          COPESCO    Achieved without Project´s
    archeological sites in Pisac                               direct contribution. The
    and Ollantaytambo in place                                 Ministry of Culture took over
                                                               the implementation of the
                                                               signage system, so this activity
                                                               was removed from the
                                                               PRRVV.
1   Interpretation centers built   2     0          COPESCO    Not achieved. The studies for
    and operating in                                           these interpretation centers
    Ollantaytambo and                                          suffered major delays and its
    Urubamba                                                   implementation progress is of
                                                               only 12%
2   Solid waste study approved     1     0          COPESCO    Partly achieved. Although the
    by SNIP and proposal for                                   engineering designs have not
    solid waste management                                     been yet finalized, the
    system for Vilcanota Valley,                               proposal for a solid waste
    complete with engineering                                  management system and the
    designs                                                    complete designs are expected
                                                               to be concluded in the
                                                               upcoming 6 months.
2   Early warning system           1     0          COPESCO    Not achieved. The designs
    installed and operating in                                 were under preparation on
    Machu Picchu Pueblo                                        June 2011 (15% progress). No
                                                               systems were installed or
                                                               operating.
3   Number of telecenters built    6     5          MINCETUR   Partly achieved. 5 telecenters
    and operating                                              were built in Calca,
                                                               Chinchero, Ollantaytambo,
                                                               Pisac ,and Urubamba and a
                                                               sustainable management
                                                               model was finalized.
                                                               Sustainable management plans
                                                               are pending implementation.
3   Number of small grants         45    44         MINCETUR   Partly achieved. 44 grants
    awarded to community                                       were awarded, but not all of
    projects                                                   them were fully disbursed due
                                                               to legal requirements.
4   Number of people trained in    237   256        MINCETUR   Achieved. The goal was fully
    municipal management                                       accomplished. 256 participants
                                                               were trained, including
                                                               representatives of local
                                                               communities.
4   Number of municipal land       7     7          COPESCO    Achieved. The goal was fully
    use plans completed                                        accomplished.
4   Street address systems         3     0          COPESCO    Partly achieved. This activity
    installed in municipalities                                was conducted as part of the
                                                               municipal land use plans, but
                                                               the systems were not installed.




                                               26
Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Components and Activities Prior and Post-Restructuring                          PIU       Status and Comments.
1      Tourism Capacity Building and Infrastructure Development
1.1.   Provision of pedestrian access    Pedestrian access to historic         COPESCO    Partially completed. Design studies were completed for three
       to historical monuments in the    monuments in the Vilcanota Valley                pedestrian accesses, but no works were executed.
       Vilcanota Valley (with the        (with the exception of the HSMP)
       exception of the Sanctuary)
1.2.                                     New - Detailed feasibility and        MINCETUR   Not completed. The studies were initiated but not finished. The
                                         engineering studies and bidding                  draft alternatives‘ analysis did not take into consideration the
                                         documents for the construction of a              sensitivity of the location and the potential impacts on historic
                                         road and rail bypass around the                  agricultural structures. Ollantaytambo inhabitants were not
                                         historic town of Ollantaytambo                   consulted in a timely fashion, and thus their views had not been
                                                                                          incorporated in the studies. Although an inter-institutional work
                                                                                          group was created to support MINCETUR, it came too late in
                                                                                          the process. MINCETUR is currently in the process of closing
                                                                                          the contract with the consultant and the Ministry of Transport
                                                                                          will take over the responsibility for the design and
                                                                                          implementation of this activity with its own resources.

1.3.   Restoration of bridges on the     Dropped                               MINCETUR   Not completed. This activity was dropped during restructuring.
       Pisac-Ollantaytambo highway
1.4.   Provision of basic sanitation     Tourist services on the Inca Trail    COPESCO    Partially completed. Design studies were completed for three
       and solid waste services along    within the HSMP                                  sites along the Inca Trail, but no works were executed.
       the Inca trail within the
       Sanctuary
1.5.   Provision of signage systems      Signage system for historic           COPESCO    Not completed. This activity is being implemented by the
       for historical monuments in the   monuments                                        Ministry of Culture.
       Vilcanota Valley
1.6.   Construction of a network of      Construction of Visitor               COPESCO    Not completed. The contract for the design studies was not
       visitor/interpretation centers    Interpretation Centers                           finished. .
1.7.    Carrying out of information,       A tourism awareness program for         MINCETUR   Completed. Educational materials have been provided to the
        education and communication        children and communities                           CRG for distribution in local schools and several workshops
        campaigns on the history and                                                          were conducted to train teachers in the region.
        culture of the Andean people
        through, inter alia, the
        production of related materials,
        targeting visitors and local
        residents, including children.
1.8.    Zoning Code and Municipal          Absorbed by 4.2.                        COPESCO    Completed under activity 4.2.
        Regulation Program
1.9.    Program on Rediscovery of          Dropped                                 MINCETUR   Not completed. This activity was dropped during restructuring.
        Cultural Identity
1.10.                                      New - Production of Geotourism          MINCETUR   Completed. The geo-tourism maps were printed in three
                                           maps for visitors and local                        languages and distributed at consulates, embassies and tourist
                                           residents, highlighting the history,               information centers both in Peru and abroad.
                                           culture and attractions of the
                                           Vilcanota Valley

1.11.   Carrying out of studies for the    Restoration and preservation of         COPESCO    Partially completed. The archeological design for Huchuy
        restoration and preservation of    historically significant architecture              Qosco was completed and approved by the Ministry of Culture.
        historic architectural,                                                               Works are currently under execution (27%)
1.12.   agricultural and hydrological      Restoration and preservation of         COPESCO    Partially completed. Two sites are currently being restored
        infrastructure.                    historic agricultural and hydraulic                (45%). However, the extension of the restored area of activities
                                           infrastructure.                                    conducted under 1.11 and 1.12 amounts to more than 500% of
                                                                                              the original intervention area.
1.13.                                      New - Carrying capacity study for       MINCETUR   Completed. The carrying capacity study for the Inca Trail is
                                           the Inca Trail                                     currently being socialized in Peru and its findings regarding the
                                                                                              maximum amount of visitors to the HSMP and the Inca Trail
                                                                                              are expected to contribute to the site protection and
                                                                                              preservation.
2      Urban Services and Infrastructure Rehabilitation
2.1.   (a) Carrying out of a regional        Revised - Preliminary assessment      COPESCO    Partially completed. See point 2.5
       solid waste management study to       on regional solid waste
       identify appropriate eco-industrial   management to identify
       solid waste management                appropriate strategies and
       strategies and investments in the     investments.
       Vilcanota Valley; and (b)             Part a is in subcomponent 2.5.
       construction and operation of a       Part b was dropped
       solid waste landfill and
       composting facilities utilizing
       eco-industrial methodologies, as
       recommended by said study.
2.2.   Provision of financing to allow       Provision of financing to allow       MINCETUR   Partially completed. Financing was provided to half of the
       communities to carry out their        municipalities to fulfill their                  participating towns due to the fact that three towns opted not to
       PRONASAR environmental                obligations in relation to                       participate in the Project. It should be noted that this activity
       obligations in relation to studies    archaeological chance find                       was completed prior to restructuring.
       for : (i) ecologically sustainable    procedures for water and sanitation
       water and sanitation                  works in small towns and rural
       rehabilitation ; and (ii) the         communities
       carrying out of a rural sanitation
       program through the construction
       of latrines.
2.3.   Rehabilitation of existing urban      Rehabilitation of existing urban      COPESCO    Not completed. This activity required having the municipal
       storm drainage systems in             storm drainage systems in selected               territorial plans finalized, so it was dropped due to timing
       selected municipalities in the        municipalities                                   issues.
       Vilcanota Valley.
2.4.   Urbanization of a site and            Revised - Urban upgrading and         COPESCO    Partially completed. During restructuring, the activity was
       construction of housing for           disaster management in Machu                     reoriented to the design and implementation of an early
       resettled vulnerable households.      Picchu Pueblo                                    warning system (SAT) and other risk management measures,
                                                                                              according to the findings of a comprehensive risk assessment in
                                                                                              MPP. The University of Maryland proposed a prototype
                                                                                              solution for the SAT that was shown to be not appropriate for
                                                                                              local conditions during piloting. requiring contracting a local
                                                                                              firm and thus delaying the process. It was also decided that
                                                                                              implementing risk management works would create a false
                                                                                              sense of safety, so an Emergency Response Plan is being
                                                                                              prepared together with the SAT.
2.5.                                         Revised - Detailed pre-feasibility     COPESCO    Partially completed. A consultant firm was contracted by
                                             and feasibility studies, engineering              MINCETUR, which was originally responsible for the activity,
                                             designs and bidding documents for                 but the contract was not completed and ultimately was closed.
                                             the Vilcanota Valley‘s solid waste                During restructuring, the scope of the activity was reduced to
                                             management and disposal system                    preparation of the studies and implementation was transferred
                                                                                               to COPESCO. The contracting process took more than a year
                                                                                               and the studies are currently under implementation and will be
                                                                                               finished with other resources. The outcomes of this activity are
                                                                                               envisioned to be used for the implementation of a solid waste
                                                                                               management system under PRODER-Cusco, including the
                                                                                               construction of a landfill and closure of dumpsters.
3      Local Economic Development
3.1.   Carrying out of capacity building programs       Dropped                     MINCETUR   Not completed. This activity was dropped during restructuring.
       for local tourism service providers.
3.2.   Design and construction of community             Design, construction        MINCETUR   Completed. Telecenters are fully functional in five
       telecenters in selected municipalities in        and provision of                       municipalities and are widely used by its inhabitants.
       the Vilcanota Valley.                            equipment for                          Telecenters contribute to socio-economic development by
                                                        community information                  facilitating access to technology and a learning space in the
                                                        and communication                      participating municipalities. Management plans were also
                                                        technology centers in                  designed and delivered to the municipalities, which are
                                                        selected municipalities                responsible for running them, to ensure sustainability. The
                                                                                               management plans are pending implementation to date.

3.3.   Design and execution of participatory local      Financing of LED            MINCETUR   Completed. Small grants were allocated to 44 initiatives that
       economic development strategies through an       subprojects through                    were supposed to contribute to a sustainable increase in
       innovation development marketplace               small grants for                       livelihoods in the Valley. The grants were almost fully
       instrument including Small Grants for            beneficiaries in selected              disbursed; however grant performance was not consistently
       Beneficiaries for the following                  municipalities                         tracked so there is no clear data on whether the projects were
       municipalities : Pisac, Calca, Urubamba,                                                successful or the amount of direct and indirect beneficiaries.
       Ollantaytambo, Chinchero and Machu
       Picchu .
4      Strategic Planning and Municipal Capacity Building
4.1.   Carrying out of the Strategic Environmental   Strategic environmental    MINCETUR   Completed. The strategic environmental assessment included
       Assessment, the Municipal Territorial Plans   assessment for the                    specific recommendations to face potential negative
       and the Vilcanota Valley Territorial Plan.    Vilcanota Valley                      environmental impacts derived from touristic, industrial,
                                                                                           agricultural, and territorial activities, and it was socialized with
                                                                                           the municipalities in the Sacred Valley and Cusco.
4.2.                                                 Municipal Land Use         COPESCO    Completed. The territorial plans were recently finalized by
                                                     Plans for the                         COPESCO and are being reviewed by the involved
                                                     municipalities of Pisac,              municipalities, after which their comments will be included in
                                                     Calca, Urubamba,                      the final plans. The plans also include a municipal and regional
                                                     Ollantaytambo, Machu                  address-based geographic information system, which was
                                                     Picchu, Chinchero and                 originally a separated component. The territorial plans will
                                                     Santa Teresa; a                       allow Municipalities to promote their development according to
                                                     Vilcanota Valley                      their potential areas of growth while considering the
                                                     Multiprovincial                       environmental and socio-economic sustainability of their
                                                     Territorial Plan and                  assets. In order to achieve this, ownership by the local
                                                     norms and regulations                 municipalities will need to be strongly promoted.
                                                     for the above-mentioned
                                                     municipalities
4.3.   Carrying out of municipal capacity building   Municipal capacity-        MINCETUR   Completed. MINCETUR provided training on municipal
       programs, inter alia, in tourism              building programs in                  management and strategic planning to 256 local authorities and
       management, municipal finance,                municipal finance,                    civil society representatives aimed at improving service
       management of urban services and disaster     management of urban                   delivery.
       prevention.                                   services and disaster
                                                     prevention
4.4.   Development of a municipal and regional       Municipal street address   COPESCO    Not completed. The address-based geographic information
       address-based geographic information          system in selected                    system was included in the Municipal Land Use Plans and the
       system to support land management, project    municipalities within                 Multiprovincial Territorial Plan, but has not yet been
       planning and revenue mobilization.            the Vilcanota Valley                  implemented.
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. During Project Preparation, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted to approximate the
net economic and social benefits resulting from project investments as compared to a
realistic ‗without-project‘ scenario. The analysis evaluated the approximate economic
value of project investments primarily as a function of the potential impact on tourism in
the Valley. The analysis estimated a Net Present Value of US$12.71 million and an
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 44.9%.

2. A second analysis was conducted during the Restructuring by the Peruvian
government, including the modification of the subcomponents where applicable, the new
Project closing date and the proposed institutional arrangements. The analysis included
economic and financial analyses, a sensitivity analysis and a review of sustainability
arrangements. The financial evaluation presented a 31% IRR, while the economic
evaluation shows a 34% IRR for the restructured Project, indicating that it was both
financially and economically viable. Both sets of analyses assumed that increases in
numbers of visitors and / or length of visitor stays were the direct result of the Project.

3. As the Restructuring eliminated most of the works and replaced them with studies,
neither the NPV nor the IRR were recalculated at completion. Additionally, the
methodology that was used for the original calculation and for the cost-benefit analyses
carried out by the Government assumed that any increase in visitors, and any increase in
length of stay, would directly result from the Project. Given that the number of visitors
has much increased, repeating the NPV/IRR analysis would likely show a positive return;
however, in reality this would not be due to the Project, but due to external factors.

4. In view of the limited progress made towards the PDOs, the lengthy implementation
period, and the costs involved in maintaining two implementing entities the overall
efficiency of the project can be considered as rather low.
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                         Title               Unit
 Alejandro Alcala Gerez   Sr Counsel                       LEGLA
 Alessandra Campanaro     Infrastructure Finance Special   LCSUW
 Alonso Zarzar Casis      Sr Social Scientist              LCSSO
 Cintia Silvia Vega       Junior Professional Associate    LCSUW
 Daniel A. Hoornweg       Lead Urban Specialist            FEUUR
 Diana Ortiz Zuluaga      Consultant                       AFTUW
 Elizabeth Huaman Carnero Team Assistant                   LCC6C
Ellen Hamilton            Sr. Urban Specialist and TTL     LCSUW
 Ephim Shluger            Consultant                       EASCS
 Evelyn Villatoro         Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPPR
 Francisco Rodriguez      Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
 Horacio Cristian Terraza Sr Environmental Spec.           LCSEN
 Irma Sanchez Valqui      Temporary                        LCSUW
 Isabella Micali Drossos  Senior Counsel                   LEGLA
 Ivo G.P. Imparato        Sector Leader and TTL            AFTUW
 Joshua Gallo             Infrastructure Specialist         PPIAF
 Karla Chaman             Sr Communications Officer      EXTCD – HIS
 Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT
 Margaret Rose Pajaro     Consultant                       LCSUW
 Maria del Rosario Payet Consultant                        LCSSD
 Maria Elizabeth Dasso    Sr. Social Development & Civil   LCSSO
 Maria Emilia Freire      Consultant                       SDNCA
 Maria Lucy Giraldo       Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT
 Maria Manuela Faria      Consultant                       EXTOC
 Melissa Bonneton         Junior Professional Associate    LCSUW
 Miguel Arcanjo Daniel
                          Voice Secondee                   LCSFP
Mondlane
 Miguel Vargas-Ramirez Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.         LCSUW
 Nelly Ikeda              Financial Management Analyst     LCSFM
 Nicole Andrea Maywah E T Consultant                        SASDI
 Oscar Anil Ishizawa
                          E T Consultant                   LCSUW
Escudero
 Patricia Mc Kenzie       Manager, Financial Management    MNAFM
 Paula Corces-Grieve      Consultant                       LCSAR
 Peter Cohen              Consultant                       MNSUR
 Pilar Elisa Gonzalez
                          Sr Counsel                       LEGLA
Rodriguez
Rafael Alejandro Letts     Consultant                        LCSUW
Reidar Kvam                Manager                           CESPQ
Roberto Adrian
                           Country Manager                   LCCDO
Senderowitsch
Roberto Chavez             Sr. Urban Specialist and TTL      LCSUW
Sandra Arzubiaga           Communications Officer            LCREA
Silvia S. Delgado          Program Assistant                 LCSUW
Stefania B. Abakerli B     Social Development Spec.          LCSSO
Xiomara A. Morel           Sr Financial Management Specia    LCSFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                        4                     74.96
  FY04                                       36                    328.92
  FY05                                       10                     65.03
                          Total:             50                    468.91
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                     12                      110.63
  FY06                                     37                      241.43
  FY07                                     50                      292.86
  FY08                                     56                      319.02
  FY09                                     35                      209.22
  FY10                                     25                      153.18
  FY11                                     21                      140.90
 FY12                                       8                       29.17
                          Total:          244                     1496.41
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments from PER Plan COPESCO on the ICR have been included in Section 7 (a)
above.
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

MINCETUR and COPESCO. 2011. Informe de Gestión Periodo 2005-2011, Proyecto De
Reordenamiento Y Rehabilitación Del Valle Del Vilcanota Acuerdo De Préstamo La
7257/PE (draft unpublished file)
MINCETUR and COPESCO. 2011. Propuesta De Sustentación Para Segunda
Verificación De La Viabilidad, Proyecto Reordenamiento Y Rehabilitación Del Valle Del
Vilcanota
Sanchez Perales, L.A. 2008. Capitulo Adicional Al Estudio De Factibilidad Que Sustenta
La Viabilidad Del Proyecto, Proyecto Reordenamiento Y Rehabilitación Del Valle Del
Vilcanota
World Bank. 2008. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Peru, Report No.
37913-PE, December 19, 2006, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2004 -2011), Aide Memoires of supervision missions and Implementation
Status Reports (ISR), Washington, D.C. and Lima (internal files)
World Bank.2004. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of
US$ 5.0 Million to The Government of Peru for a Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and
Management Project, Report No. 28777-PE, August 2004, Washington, D.C.
World Bank.2008. Project Paper on Restructuring the Peru: Vilcanota Valley
Rehabilitation And Management Project (Loan 7257-Pe), Report No. 46529-PE,
November 2008, Washington, D.C.
People interviewed for this ICR:

Government of Peru
Vladimir More                         General Coordinator, MINCETUR
Percy Castro                          General Coordinator, COPESCO
Marlith Farfán Salazar                Environmental Safeguard Specialist, COPESCO
Luis Delgado                          Urban Specialist, COPESCO
Fernando Gallegos Inquiltupa          Economic Development Consultant, MINCETUR
Germán Dávalos                        Former President, COPESCO

The World Bank
Ivo Imparato                          Task Team Leader (2007-2010)

People who contributed to this ICR:

Elizabeth Dasso                       Social Specialist
Daniel Mira-Salama                    Environmental Specialist
Jose Yukio Rasmussen                  Procurement Specialist
Nelly Ikeda                           Financial Management Specialist
Oscar Ishizawa                        Disaster Risk Management Specialist
Peter Cohen                           Social Specialist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33541R
                                                                Santa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R i o U r u b am b a
                                         72°40’                                                                   72°30’                                                                                              72°20’                                                                                               72°10’                                                                                                              0           50       100           150
13°00’                                                                              Maria                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13°00’                                                                                      KILOMETERS                                                                                                   COLOMBIA
This map was produced by the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ECUADOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rio
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MADRE
The boundaries, colors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DE DIOS
denominations and any other                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              e de
information shown on this map do not                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dr                            TUMBES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C U S C O                                                                        Dio




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LORETO

                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA CONVENCIÓN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R.M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AMAZ O
imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Quillabamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ur
Group, any judgment on the legal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PIURA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             im
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Area of Main Map




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NA
status of any territory, or any




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          For detail see




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAM
endorsement or acceptance of such                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Santa Teresa                                                        Pillcopata                       LAMBAYEQUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33542                                                                                              SAN
boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRAZIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ollantaytambo                                      Paucartambo                                                                   MARTIN


       LA                                                                                                                                                                                    Lu                                                                                                                                                                        Andahuaylas                              ABANCAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CUSCO                                                            LA LIBERTAD


                                                                                                                                                                                                  cu
   CONVENC I Ó N                                                                                                                                                                                       ma
                                                                                                                                                                                                            yo                                                                                                                                                                              APURIMAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANCASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HU?NUCO




                                                                                                                    s
                                                                                                                  li ente
                                                                        Vi l c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UCAYAL?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Chalhuanca                                                                                                                                PASCO




                                                                               a
                                                      Santa Teresa




                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                       For detail see IBRD 33542




                                                                                                                  Ca
                                                                           not




                                                                                                    ndo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PUNO                                                                               See inset at left




                                                                                                                as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIMA          JUNIN




                                                                             a




                                                                                                   Ma


                                                                                                             gu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yauri                          Azán-                                                                                        MADRE DE DIOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lima




                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  garo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HUANCA-
                                                                                                            Machu Picchu Pueblo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AYACUCHO                                                                                                                                                             VELICA                CUSCO
                                                                        Temple of the Moon




                                                                                                                                        ahua
                                           Sacsaya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AY
                                                                            Wayna Picchu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APURIMAC
                                                                                                        For detail see                                                              Nevado                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A R E Q U I PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ACU
13°10’                                                       Machu Picchu Citadel                                                                                                                                                                                   Nevado
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ICA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHO
                                                                                                        IBRD 33543                                                                La Verónica                                                                                                                                                             13°10’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                  Pamp
                                                           Resettlement Area                                                                                                                                                                                       Halacoma




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              jac
                                                                                                    Intipunku
                                                            Hydroelectrical Plant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PA C I F I C                                                               PUNO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tan
                                                                                                                                                                 y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72°00’




                                                                                                                                                                nto
                                                                                      Intipata                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AREQUIPA
                                                                                                          Chachabamba                    Andenes




                                                                                                                                                                ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MOQUEGUA




                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                        Pitupujyo                     Wiñay wayna                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OCEAN




                                                                                                                                                                                 Mi quio
                                                                                                                                                         Torontoy
                                                          esa




                                                                                                                                                                                  pu
                                                                                                        Phuyupatamarca                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TACNA




                                                                                                                                                                                   squ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Piscacucho
                                                      Ter




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CHILE




                                                                                                                                                                                       i-
                                                                                                                  Runquraqay                                    Qoriwayrachina
                                                     nta




                                                                                                Sayacmarca               Wayna qente                                                    Rocabamba                                                                                                           ha
                                                     Sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c                                                                                                                                                                                                             71°50’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   an
                                                                                      Aobamba
                                                                                                                                                                          Llactapata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tac
                                                                                                                            Llu                                                                                                                                                         Pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ollantaytambo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cancha Canch
                                                                                                                                  llu                   Yunca
                                                                                                                                        ch                                                                                                 Vi l
                                                                                                                                             ap        chimpa                                                                                   c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          oc
                                                                                                                                                  am                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAUCARTAMBO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      chi
                                                                                                                                                       p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                icó
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     has
                                                                                                                                                                Wayllabamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pac




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ho
                                                                                                              Nevado




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Joc
                                                                                                                                                         haca
                                                                                                Incatambo                                                                              Nevado
                                                                                                             Chullunku
                                                                                                                                                                                       Huayllay                                                                                                                                                Urubamba



                                                                                                                                                        Cusic




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Silque
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Yucay
                                                                                          Nevado                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Maras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vilcanota                                             Calca
                                                                                         Salkantay                                                 Pampaqawana
13°20’                                                                                                                                                Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13°20’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Huayllabamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  am
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lc   ab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lamay                  Vi                      ta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            o   r                                                                                                                                                                                                            pa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mb                                                                                                                                                                                                 Huayn a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chahu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Chinchero                                                                                                                    Coya

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Huarocondo                                          L. Piuray
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L. Huaypo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pisac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L. Coricocha                           Toroy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Zurite
                                       PERU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ancahuasi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Anta
               VILCANOTA VALLEY                                                                                                                                       Limatambo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            jah  ua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      na                   Pitumayo                                                                            Pucyura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Qui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  sarm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ayo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rayac

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cachimayo

13°30’
              REHABILITATION AND                                                                                           do
                                                                                                                                                         Pamp
                                                                                                                                                                 ahuall
                                                                                                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Salvador
                                                                                                                    Colora
             MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Poroy                                                    Huanchac                                                                                                                                                  13°30’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             San




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CUSCO                         Sebastian                      San




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ma
            PROJECT REGION AND BASIN BOUNDARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      yo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jerónimo
                                                      (name)         PROJECT ACTIVITY SITES
            PROTECTION ZONE BOUNDARY
                                                                     SNOW-CAPPED PEAKS (NEVADOS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hu
            HISTORIC SANCTUARY OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nay
              MACHU PICCHU BOUNDARY                                  BUILT UP AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A N T A
            ARCHAEOLOGICAL GROUPS                                    MAIN ROADS

            DEPARTMENT CAPITAL                                       INCA TRAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Oropesa

            PROVINCE CAPITALS                                        BRIDLE TRAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                         0                       2                    4                        6                    8                        10 km.
            DISTRICT CAPITALS                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PA R U R O
            OTHER SELECTED TOWNS, HAMLET                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                            72°40’
                                                                                                                72°30’                                                                                               72°20’                                                                                            72°10’                                                                72°00’                                                                                                               71°50’                  QUISPICANCHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DECEMBER 2011
