Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9600
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2023-DO)
MAY 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offtcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal until 1984                -  RD$ 1.00  = US$1.00
Average 1985                        -  RD$ 3.103 = US$1.00
1986                       -  RD$ 2.878 = US$1.00
1987                       -  RD$ 3.478 - US$1.00
1988                       -  RD$ 5.782 = US$1.00
1989                       -  RD$ 6.28  = US$1.00
WEIGHrS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA           - Agricultural Bank
CNA          - National Agricultural Council
IICA         - Inter-American Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture
SEA          - Secretariat of State for Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                  OR omcliL USe ONLY
Washsngton, O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ovici d Ov.ecwmvGe.ai
May 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Dominican Republic
Cocoa and Coffee Development Proiect (Loan 2023-DO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report ou Dominican Republic - Cocoa and Coffee Development
Project (Loan 2023-DO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
Th1i document has a smntceddistribution and may be ued by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official dutieL,Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authboution.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2023-DO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .............................                                      . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .                1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
Background  . . .        . . . . .1
Project Objectives a-id Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . .              2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              2
Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7
Bank Performance.                                                        8
Borrower Performance.                                                    8
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
Consulting Services                        .9
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .              11
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              27
TABLES:
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits    . . . . . . . . . . . .            27
2.  Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28
3.  Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements   . . . . . .             31
4.  Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            32
5. Project Results ................ .                                        34
6. Status of Covenants            ...                     ...37
7.  Bank Missions and Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
MAP:   IBRD 22972
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2023-DO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cocoa and
Coffee Development Project in the Dominican Republic, for which Loan 2023-DO
in the amount of US$24.0 million was approved on June 23, 1981.  The loan
was closed on June 30. 1989, three years behind schedule.   Ninety-eight
percent (US$23.5 million) of the loan was disbursed and 2 percent (US$0.423
million) is in the process of cancellation.  The final disbursement was on
March 14, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by tha Agriculture Operations Division
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in November 1988, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, corres-
pondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- i1i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN ;023-DO)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1. The original project objectives were to improve productivity and
incomes of small-scale cocoa and cofee producers and to increase the
export of these commodities. These objectives were to be achieved by
components designed to: (i) provide farmers with technical assistance
through the Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA); and (ii) provide
credit through the Agricultural Bank (BA), to finance medium- and long-term
subloans for on-farm development (para. 3.01). In the wake of Hurricane
Emily that hit the country on September 21, 1987, the Project and Loan
Agreements were amended to accommodate Emergency Relief Measures and to
improve project implementation. Such amendment included new project
components financing commercial fertilizer imports, machinery and equipment
purchases for rehabilitation of damaged irrigation canals and rural roads,
additional vehicles for extension and credit services, and short-term
credit to coffee producer associations (para. 3.02).
Implementation Experience
2. The loan became effective on September 1, 1982, one year after the Loan
was signed (para. 5.01). Actual closing date for the project was June 30,
1989, three years after the appraisal estimate (para. 5.02). The appraisal
mission correctly identified as a project risk the potential appearance of
the coffee leaf rust. This disease appeared in the country in 1988, the
last year of project implementation. A project risk, which was not
foreseen at appraisal and therefore not taken into account in the design of
the project, was the weak implementation capacity of SEA and BA, which
seriously constrained the project's implementation (paras. 5.03 and 5.06).
Also, the Bank did not assess whether the credit operation was appropriate
under the conditions of a distorted financial sector (i.e. where directed
lending, administered interest rates and subsidized credit programs
featured heavily). Hence the appropriate conditionality was not built into
the project's design. In March 1987, the Government launched a parallel,
but highly subsidized, coffee and cocoa rehabilitation program. For a
time, (i.e. until Government funds ran out) this diverted resources of the
Coffee and Cocoa Departments of SEA from the Bank supported project
(para. 5.05). Implementation was also constrained by lack of counterpart
funds, particularly when, for a period of about five months, the Bank would
not make disbursements until satisfactory documentation had been provided
for funds previously drawn from the Special Account (para. 8.01). The
Special Account was closed in February 1988 because the Government did not
maintain such Special Account in US dollars as stipulated in the Loan
Agreement (para 6.08).



- iv
Re,,ults
3. Total project cost was US$28.2 million, 712 of the appraisal estimate.
Expenditures for both coffee replanting and the setting up of priva%e
coffee nurseries were on target, while those for cocoa rehabilitation and
replanting, processing facilities, and short-term credit for coffee
mai-keting were below appraisal targets (Table 4). There was active demand
for subloans for cocoa sun dLying fdCilitie3, but less demand for
fermentation boxer (para. 6.05). Implementation of the technical services
was not carried out as anticipated, due to institutional weaknesses within
the Min._stry of Agriculture which led to frequent changes in technical
staff assignments, poor supervision of extension agents and logistical
difficulties   Low salaries of extension agents were at the heart of the
problem (para. 6.06).  OcrPrall Lmergency Relief Aeasures were effectively
implemented. Balance of payments support through funding f rtilizer
imports reached US$6.0 million as planned and disbursement &'or the
marketing _redit component reache' US$1.6 million (67Z of the allocated
US$2.4 million). Disbursement for machinery and equipment for
rehabilitation of ir:igatlon canals and rural roads were, respectively 75Z
and 95? of the allocated amounts (para. 6.07).
4. Productivity targets were -not fully reached, but were still
significr..tly better :.han the pre-project situation. Yields of replanting
and rehabilitating coffee and cocoa are expected to be about 20? lower than
the appraisal estimates, but still some 190Z higher than the pre-project
situation. International prices of coffee and cocoa have also fallen by
50? a3nd 25? respectively. As a result of the lower-than- expected yields
and prices, the financial rate of return (FRR) for both cocoa
rehabilitation and replanting is negative, on the basis of 1989
international prices but 18? and 16X respectively on the basis of 1988
international prices. This is substantially less than appraisal estimates
of 61? and 57Z respectively. The FRR for coffee was estimated to be 2? on
the basis of 1989 international prices, but 24? on the basis of 1988
international prices, whereas the appraisal estimate for coffee was 24?.
Clearly the PRRs for coffee and cocoa are very sensitive to fluctuations in
international prices (para. 6.10).
5. The economic rate of return (ERR) at comple.ion of the project is about
12?, which is significantly less than the appraisal estimate of 612. The
project's ERR of 12Z is the same as the opportunity cost of capital as
estimated by the Central Bank. In economic terms the project has thus not
been a good investment for the Dominican Republic (para. 6.11). The
project has not brought about significant changes in sectoral growth and
policies. On the other hand, the project has highlighted the constraints
emanating from distorted macro policies, in particular export taxes,
interest rates and exchange rates, and from inefficient implementing
agencies (SEA and BA). These issues are being addressed in a follow-up
project now under preparation. The project did help to sustain the
physical environment In the project areas through maintenance of a
permanent canopy of coffee and cocoa, thereby contributing to soil and
water conservation (para. 6.12).



Sustainability
6. Project sustainability relates mainly to the "health* of the coffee
subsector, especially now that the International Coffee Agreement no longer
exists. Important follow-on actions need to be taken to: (a) develop an
autonomous Coffee and Cocoa Commission responsible for development of the
sub-sectors, including the provision of extension services; (b) limit SEA,"
involvement to control and regulatory functions; (c) introduce policy
reforms in the areas of interest rates, exchange rates and export taxes;
and (d) provide term-credit for growers of coffee in order to maintain the
Dominican Republic's position on the world market, consistent with its
growth trends, along with continued investment in processing and marketing
to improve thn quality of Dominican coffee and cocoa. These issues are
being addressed during the preparation of a follow-up project (para. 7.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
7. The main lessons from this project that may be relevant to other
Bank-financed projects in the 'ominican Republic are:
(i) far greater attention needs to be given to institutional capacity.
Given the weak technical state of the Ministry of Agriculture,
perpetuated by low staff salaries, every effort should be made to
promote private sector initiatives, particularly for commercial
crops such as coffee and cocoa, where the potential exists for
strengthening cooperatives, growers associations and Federations
of producers;
(ii) in future loans to the Dominican Republic, compliance with Special
Account requirements should be closely monitored and the
political, financia or any other constraints should be considered
as early as possible.
(iii) given the pervasive counterpart funding problems in the Dominican
Republic, greater attention should be given to ensure funding is
available for operational costs, training, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) and that the persistent problem of low technical
staff salaries is addressed;
(iv) both SEA and BA need substantial changes in their organizational
structure and procedures in order to be able to implement projects
of a scope such as this. Specifically, in so far as coffee and
cocoa are concerned, SEA should promote the private sector to
produce seeds and improved planting materials, while retaining
control ar.d regulatory functions. BA should improve its loan
evaluation and examination unit, its accounting system and its
collections;
(v) financial sector distortions need to be addressed to promote
sustainable growth, particularly the financial operations of BA,
to: (a) increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of
services; and (b) send correct market signals to beneficiaries
about the cost of funds and repayment conditions; and



- vi -
I,
(vi) provisions need to be made in the loan documents to ensure that
parallel programs are 1tat launched with the same target groups
under very different implementation criteria and levels of subsidy
(paras. 8.02 and 0.02).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2023-DO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Project Identity
Project Name:       Cocoa and Coffee Development Project
Loan No.s           2023-DO
RVP Unit:           Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:            Dominican Republic
Sector:             Agriculture
Subsector:          Cocoa and Coffee
2.       Background
2.01     The most important objectives of the agricultural public sector
have been to: (i) accelerate employment generation and land distribution
in rural areas; (ii) improve nutritional levels of the low-income
population; (iii) contribute to the agroindustrial development; and
(iv) expand the sector's contribution to foreign-exchange earnings. The
three main problem areas affecting implementation of agricultural projects
have been: insufficient and diverted provision of agricultural credit,
distortions in the agricultural price policy and the delays in implementing
Agrarian Reform. The project was designed to respond to limited sector
objectives of export expansion and increased fiscal revenues through cocoa
and coffee export taxes.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.01     The original project objectives were to improve productivity and
incomes of small-scale cocoa and coffee producers and to increase the
export of these commodities. These objectives were to be achieved by
components designed to: (i) provid Uarmers with technical assistance
through the Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA): and (ii) pr--:4de
credit through the Agricultural Bank (BA), to finance medium- and 1ing-term
subloans for on-farm development. The original components included
rehabilitation of cocoa plantations and replanting of cocoa and coffee



plantings; provision of fermentation boxes and sun-drying facilities to
cocoa farmers and depulping machines to coffee farmers; establishment of
cocoa and coffee nurseries; consultant services and training for SEA staff,
and vehicles and equipment for SEA technical assistance staff.
3.02     In February 1988, the Loan Agreement was amended to accommodate
Emergency Relief Measures in the wake of Hurricane Emily that hit the
country on September 21, 1987. Modifications were also introduced at that
time to improve project implementation. The project modifications
included: (i) balance of payments support by financi.ag commercial
fertilizer imports, retroactive to the time of the hurricane;
(ii) machinery and equipment purchases for the repair and maintenance of
damaged irrigation canals: (iii) machinery and eqaipment purchases for the
rehabilitation of rural roads that had been damaged in the cocoa and coffee
areas; (iv) provision of additional vehicles for extension and credit
services; and (v) short-term credit for coffee producer associations to
enable them to improve coffee marketing.
3.03     Disbursements of the Bank loan during the first five years of
project implementation, i.e., up to the time of Hurricane Emily, had only
reached about US$9.0 million, 37? of the loan. Project activities had
slowed considerably in 1985 and 1986, resulting from the January 1985
Dominican peso devaluation and the 1986 electoral process. The amendments
to the project in the wake of the Hurricatne allocated US$10.5 million to
the new components and subsequently lea to a much faster pace of
disbursement: US$14.5 million was disbursed in the following 20 months to
the close of the project, thereby meeting the fast disbursing objective
that was embodied in the Emergency Relief Amendments (Table 3).
4.       Proiect Design and Organization
4.01     The project was simple, carefully defined in scope, and understood
by all relevant parties. It was identified after the Government requested
emergency assistance from the Bank in the wake of Hurricanes David and
Frederick that hit the country in August and September of 1979. Within the
narrow scope of the project, it was quite well prepared and the timing was
appropriate. The roles and responsibilities o4 the institutions
responsible for the project were clearly defind.  However, a deficiency
was the inadequate assessment of the weak institutional capacity of SEA and
BA, which negatively impacted on project implementation. In particular,
the Bank and FAO/CP preparation missions did not carry out an in-depth
analysis of BA, in spite of this project being the first Bank-supported
credit operation for the agricultural sector in the Dominican Republic (90?
of the Bank loan covered credit activities).
5.       Project Implementation
5.01     Effectiveness.  The loan became effective on September 1, 1982,
one year after the Loan Agreement was signed and after the Bank authorized
three extensions of the effectiveness date (from December 24, 1981 to
September 1, 1982). The extensions were required to allow for: (i) delays
in approving the Loan Agreement by the Dominican Republic Congress, which
only took place 'a April 1982; (ii) delays in signing the Subsidiary
Agreement between SEA and BA, which was signed in July 1982; and (iii) the



- 3 -
almost complete halt of public sector activities as a result of the
electoral process resulting in a new administration in August 1982.
5.02     lmplementation Period.  According to appraisal projections, the
project was expected to close on tune 30, 1986. The actual Closing Date
was June 30, 1989, three years later due to: (i) initial delays of 18
months in the start-up of project activities; (ii) shortage of counterpart
funds throughout; (iii) improper use of the Special Account (paras 6.08 and
8.01); (i") lack of continuity in staffing of SEA; and (v) SEA's
implementation of a parallel and highly subiidized cocoa and coffee
rehabJlitation program with grant funding from the President's Special
Fund.
5.03     Proiect Risks.  The appraisal mission correctly identified as a
project risk the potential appearance of the coffee leaf rust in the
country. The mission was conceened about the country's total reliance on
one single variety of coffee (Cacurra) for coffee replanting programs.
While highly productive, this variety was diagnosed as being very
susceptible to the leaf rust. This disease appeared in the country in
1988, the last year of project implementation. In September 1988 an action
program to control the leaf rust was set up by the Ministry of Agriculture.
including the creation of a National Coffee Rust Commission with regional
agencies. A project risk, which was not foreseen at appraisal and
therefore not taken into account in the design of the project, was the weak
implementation capacity of SEA and BA, which seriously constrained the
project's implementation.
5.04     Factors that Affected Proiect Implementation.  The factors that
most affected project implementation were: .i) in the SEA: slow initial
project start-up; high turnover of the technical staff; low salaries of the
extension agents; frequent changes in SEA's management and project staffing
(as a result of three Administrations during implementation); lack of
counterpart funds; poor performance of the monitoring and evaluation unit;
inappropriate use of the Special Account that was opened at the Central
Bank; insufficient contracting of project consultants to accelerate
training of project extension agents and beneficiaries; and during a one
year period, the implementation of a parallel coffee and cocoa development
program; and (ii) in the BA: slow start-up of credit operations and an
initial lack of counterpart funds; chronic lack oi liquidity due to poor
recovery rates and delays in preparation of reimbursement requests;
inefficient systems for monitoring progress and project accounts; possible
deviation of project funds to other commodity subloans (paras. 6.09 and
9.01); and negative on-lending rates (since 1985, the interest of subloans
to farmers was negative in real terms).
5.05     Decision Taken that Most Affected Proiect Implementation.  The
Government took a decision in March 1987 that negatively affected project
implementation: to execute a parallel coffee and cocoa rehabilitation
program, financed by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (STP), it
no cost to beneficiaries. This diverted the technical resources of the
Coffee and Cocoa Departments of SEA from the Bank supported project. Also,
since there was no cost recovery element, the parallel program greatly



- 4 -
reduced demand for the Bank financed support and undermined the financial
discipline that the Bank-supported project had sought to achieve. The
Government disbursed about US$9.3 million under this parallel program,
which was politically motivated by the new administration of the time to
reduce the social pressure caused by high rural unemploynment. When damage
caused by Hurricane Emily in September 1987 caused Government to request
the Bank for emergency assistance, it was decided that the most effective
mechanism would be to redesign the Cocoa and Coffee Developmert Project to
provide some measure of "fast disbursing" emergency assistance while also
helping to expedite implementation under the loan. Disbursements did, in
fact, pick up with approximately 61Z of the loan disbursed after the
amendment of February 1988 until project closing in June 1989.
5.06     Decisions that Were Not Taken that Most Affected Proiect
Implementation. The Bank omitted, during project preparation and
appraisal, to carry out an analytical assessment of SEA's institutional
capacity and of BA's financial and managerial capacity. This omission
adversely impacted on effective project implementation. The Bank also did
not assess whether the credit operation was appropriate under the
conditions of a distorted financial sector (i.e., where directed lending,
administered interest rates and subsidized credit programs featured
heavily). Hence the appropriate conditionality was not built into the
project's design. The loan documents of September 1981 specified interest
rates of 112 and 12Z (plus interest and commission charges) for production
and marketing credit resp:ctively.  It was agreed after the September 1987
Hurricane to adjust interest rates to make them compatible with BA's
current interest rates of 172 for production credits and l9Z for marketing
credits. While the Dominican Republic did, in fact, raise the irterest
rates, they still remained negative in real terms.
5.07     Policy-induced distortions, as mentioned in para. 5.06, clearly
hampered efficient mobilization and allocation of resources under the
project, and there is a serious need to address financial issues on a
sector-wide basis. The follow-on project now under preparation would seek
to introduce market-linked interest rates in the Dominican Republic as part
of an overall package of financial sector reforms.
6.       Project Results
6.01     This chapter compares actual performance with the targets
established at appraisal, and when the project was redesigned in conjuntion
with the Emergency Relief Measures following the September 1987 Hurricane.
It includes an analysis of implementation as part relative to credit and
technical services to farmers' Emergency Relief Measures, assessment of
project cost, disbursement, procurement, reporting, auditing and compliance
with loan covenants. In addition, the project impact is evaluated.
6.02     Due to the unsatisfactory performance of SEA's Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) Unit, and BA's inefficient monitoring of subloans, there
is no reliable information on the number of project beneficiaries and
subloans granted per category. Also, BA does not have a good record of
collections on its portfolio. The analysis that follows is mainly based on
a review of subborrowers' files in BA offices and on a field survey carried
out in May-June 1989.



- 5 -
6.03     Credit Component.  The project was to finance about US$30.0
million for medium- and long-term on-farm investments. For cocoa
rehabilitation, sublcars were estimated at appraisal to amount to
US$1.6 million, whereas US$0.9 million (56Z) was disbursed from the loan at
the closing date. For cocoa replanting, subloans for US$6.0 million were
expected at appraisal and US$3.7 million (62Z) was disbursed. For coffee
replanting, US$11.4 million in subloans was expected at appraisal and
US$3.5 million (312) was disbursed (Table 4, page 2 shows appraisal
estimates versus actual costs).
6.04.    Regarding subloans for private coffee nurseries, this component
was constrained because of subsidized sale of seedlings from SEA's own
nursery development program. BA records do not indicate any separate
subloans having been made. However, farmers did receive funds for coffee
nurseries as part of their on-farm coffee development. About US$0.5
million was disbursed against this category for coffee nurseries versus
US$0.4 million estimated at appraisal.
6.05     For the processing facilities component, US$1.0 million was
disbursed (63Z) versus about US$1.6 million estimated at appraisal. There
was an active demand for subloans for cocoa sun drying facilities, but less
demand for fermentation boxes. The main reason for the lack of demani for
the quality enhancing fermentation boxes was that there was no price
premium for better quality cocoa (Hispaniola type), versus the lower
quality unfermented (Sanchez type) cocoa. For coffee, there was little
demand for improved processing facilities, only US$64,500 was disbursed
(13Z) versus the US$0.5 million provided. There were also technical
reasons as to why coffee depulping machines were not more widely taken up:
(i) delays in contracting a manufacturer to produce the equipment increased
the unit cost by about 202; and (ii) there were technical problems with the
depulper machines, due to the manufacturer's lack of experience in building
the machines.
6.06     Technical Services.  The provision of technical services was
unsatisfactory for a variety of reasons, including frequent changes in
technical staff assignments, poor supervision of extension agents, and
logistical difficulties. Low salaries of extension agents were at the
heart of the problem (see also para. 5.04). The problems were exacerbated
during the project period as the capacity of both SEA and BA deteriorated
with the worsening institutional macro-economic performance of the country.
Nevertheless, about US$5.0 million equivalent of local counterpart funds
were spent on technical services, 1332 of estimates. More local funds were
needed due to higher than expected inflation, and the fact that the project
took three years more to implement than anticipated.
6.07     Emergency Relief Measures.  Balance of payments support through
funding fertilizer imports took place with disbursement of the
US$6.0 million as planned. US$4.0 million was disbursed immediately,
however, the remaining US$2.0 million was held until documentation for
eligible expenditures from the Special Account was received in
December 1988. For the marketing credit, US$1.6 million was disbursed (672
of the allocated US$2.4 million). By the June 30, 1989 loan closing,
provision of machinery and equipment for rehabilitation of damaged



- 6 -
irrigation canals was 39Z (US$0.78 million) of the allocated US$2.0 million
and for rural roads was 61Z (US$1.2 million) of the allocated
US$2.0 millionl and for the provision of vehicles, 482 (US$0.45 million) of
the allocated US$1.0 million was disbursed (Table 4, page 2).
6.08     Loan Administration.  The total project cost was US$28.2 million,
712 of the appraisal estimate and 86Z of the redesigned project estimate.
Administration of the loan was constrained by the pervasive lack of
counterpart funds and their untimely availability. This meant that funds
were not available to prefinance project expenditures, and led to funds
being advanced from the Special Account and to underfunding of peso
denominated account due to devaluation. This, however, was not acceptable
to the Bank and led to the use of the Special Account being stopped for
about five months. In fact, the Bank insisted that no disbursements take
place until full documentation had been provided for the funds drawn from
the Special Account. In addition, the Special Account was closed in
February 1988 because the Government did not maintain the account in
US dollars. The Special Account, contrary to the Loan Agreement, was
maintained in local currency (and not in US dollars as required). The
advance was fully recovered from the Special Account. Procedures for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement of vehicles and
equipment for the project were fulfilled satisfactorily, but excessive time
was required to complete the process.
6.09     The Borrower did not fully comply with the following sections of
the Loan Agreement: 3.10(b)(iii); 4.02(b)(ii); and 4.04(a)(i). These
covenants covered semi-annual reporting on project progress, audit
reporting, and BA's maintenance of accounting records. Project reporting
was unsatisfactory, in part because the M&E Unit did not receive sufficient
local funds. Reports were only descriptive, dealing mainly with
administrative project aspects. They were not adequately analytical about
project goals and problems. Audit reports were satisfactory but were
consistently delayed. Recommendations by the auditor for SEA to improve
its operations were never implemented. Such recommendations focused on
SEA's lack of administrative control, weak accounting procedures, and lack
of inventories for vehicles and equipmert. In BA, auditors found the same
deficiencies year after year (weak accounting and financial control system,
and lack of independent accounts for project funds). Similarly, auditor
recommendations were never implemented even though the Bank insisted that
both SEA and BA implement the recommendations.
6.10     Proiect Impact.  Productivity targets were not fully reached but
were still significantly better than the pre-project situation. From field
surveys yield comparisons with appraisal estimates (at full development
year 5 and beyond) are as follows:  coffee replanting, 670 kg/ha versus
900 kg/ha (74Z); cocoa rehabilitation, 500 kg/ha versus 560 kg/ha (892);
and cocoa replanting, 550 kg/ha versus 680 kg/ha (812). Nevertheless, the
project led to substantial incremental cocoa and coffee production,
1/ As of April 4, 1990 closing of loan account, disbursements have
increased to US$1.9 million (95Z) for machinery and equipment for roads
rehabilitation and US$1.5 million (75%) for machinery and equipment for
irrigation canals rehabilitation.



estimated to be 1.9 m tons and 2.1 m tons respectively. In spite of the
somewhut lower yields, investments in cocoa and coffee were still
attractive to farmers. For iocoa rehabilitation, financial rates of return
(PU) were negative (on the basis of 1989 international prices) and 182 (on
the basis of 1988 international prices) versus 61Z estimated at appraisal;
for cocoa replanting the FRRs were negative (on the basis of 1989
international prices) and 162 (on the basis of 1988 international prices)
versus 572 at appraisal. For coffee, the FRRs estimated at closing are 22
(on the basis of 1989 international prices) and 24X (on the basis of 1988
international prices). Clearly the MRs for coffee and cocoa are very
sensitive to fluctuations in international prices.
6.11     The economic rate of return (ERR) at completion of the project is
about 122. This is significantly less than the appraisal estimate of 612.
The main factors contributing to this difference are the lower yields and
lower coffee and cocoa prices, in real terms, than expected at appraisal.
The projected benefit stream is based on January 1990 revised Bank
forecasts of international coffee and cocoa prices. These prices are now
lower than prices of November 1980 by about 50Z in the case of coffee and
by about 252 in the case of cocoa. The project's ERR of 12a is the same as
the opportunity cost of capital as estimated by the Central Bank. In
economic terms the project has thus not been a good investment for the
Dominican Republic.
6.12     The project has not brought about significant changes in sectoral
growth and policies. It was, however, narrowly designed and did not focus
on broad sectoral issues. Also, the project did not have a significant
impact on the development of human resourcess training of SEA and BA staff
has only been partially carried out in the first years of project
implementation. On the other hand, the project has highlighted the
constraints emanating from distorted macro policies, in particular export
taxes, interest rates and exchange rates, and from inefficient implementing
agencies (SEA and BA). These issues are being addressed in a follow-up
project now under preparation. The project did help sustain the physical
environment in the project areas through maintenance of a permanent canopy
of coffee and cocoa, thereby contributing to soil and water conservation.
7.       Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.01     Project sustainability relates mainly to the "health' of the
coffee subsector, especially now that the International Coffee Agreement is
no longer in existence. Important follow-on actions need to be taken to:
(a) develop an autonomous Coffee and Cocoa Commission responsible for
development of the sub-sectors, including the provision of extension
services; (b) limit SEA's involvement to control and regulatory functions
(para. 9.02); (c) introduce policy reforms in the areas of interest rates,
exchange rates and export taxes; and (d) provide term-credit for growers of
coffee in order to maintain the Dominican Republic's position on the world
market, consistent with its growth trend, along with continued investment
in processing and marketing to improve the quality of Dominican coffee and
cocoa. These issues are being addressed during the preparation of a
follow-up project.



-8-
8.       Bank Performance
8.01     Bank performance was deficient in the preparation stage and in the
early years of the project in not addressing the institutional weaknesses
of SEA and BA that combined to reduce the effectiveness of the project.
However, towards the end of the project, these weaknesses were recognized
and a study was financed under the project to review SEA's organizational
structure and provide recommendations for improvement as part of the
prLparation of a follow-up project. Similarly, a technical assistar.ce
proposal was prepared by the Bank for bilateral grant funding, designed to
tackle the problems of the efficiency of operations of BA. To date,
however, grant funds have not been forthcoming and the Government is
unwilling to borrow for techniCal assistance. Relations between the Bank,
SEA and BA were cordial at all times. The Bank acted flexibly in
responding to the Government's requests for closing date extensions on
three occasions, and in redesigning the project in 1987 based on the
emergency funding needed following the Hurricane. At that time, however,
the Bank took firm action to correct the misuse of the Special Account, by
insisting that no disbursements take place until full documentation had
been provided for the funds drawn from the Special Account (para. 6.08).
8.02     The main lessons that may be relevant to other Bank-financed
projects in the Dominican Republic are: (i) far greater attention needs to
be given to institutional capacity. Given the weak technical state of the
Ministry of Agriculture, perpetuated by low staff salaries, every effort
shouild be made to promote private sector initiatives, particularly for
commercial crops such as coffee and cocoa, where the potential exists for
strengthening cooperatives, growers associations and federations of
producers; (ii) in future loans to the Dominican Republic, compliance with
Special Account requirements should be closely monitored aad the political,
financial or any other constraints should be considered as early as
possible; and (iii) given the pervasive counterpart funding problems in the
Dominican Republic, greater attention should be given to ensure funding is
available for operational costs, training, M&E, and that the persistent
problem of low technical staff salaries is addressed.
9.       Borrower Performance
9.01     The SEA and BA performance from project identification to
appraisal was satisfactory. During implementation their performance was
unsatisfactory due mainly to their increasingly weak institutional
capacity. Overall, the project lacked sufficient and timely counterpart
funds. SEA had a complicated disbursements process; inappropriately used
the Special Account; could not operate effectively due to the high turnover
of its staff; and had a poorly functioning M&E (including disappearance of
most of the project files). BA had permanent liquidity problems;
inadequate project accounting control and monitoring system; and possible
deviation of project funds (not verified) due to lack of independent
accounts (para. 6.09). On the positive side, the project did improve the
coordination between SEA and BA, although more needs to be done. Also,
SEA's coffee and cocoa departments developed a greater capacity for
seedling production from public nurseries.



- 9 -
9.02     The main lessons for the Borrower, that may be relevant to the
preparation and implementation of other projects with or without external
financing, are: (i) both SEA and BA need substantial changes in their
organizational structure and procedures in order to be able to implement
projects of a scope such as this. Specifically, insofar as coffee and
cocoa are concerned, SEA should promote the private sector to produce seeds
and improved planting materials, while retaining control and regulatory
functions. BA should improve its loan evaluation and examination unit, its
accounting system and its collections; (ii) financial sectur distortions
need to be addressed to promote sustainable growth, particularly the
financial operations of BA, to: (a) increase the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of services; and (b) send correct market signals to
beneficiaries about the cost of funds and repayment conditions; and
(iii) provisions need to be made in the loan documentation to ensure that
parallel programs are not launched with the same target groups under very
different implementation criteria and levels of subsidy.
10.      Project Relationship
10.01    Overall relationship between the Bank and the Dominican Republic
institutions (SEA, BA, and other local institutions) was cordial. However,
the Bank's limited resources for carrying out project supervision severely
handicapped the level of attention required to effectively implement the
projects overall, there was a lack of continuity for and intensity of
supervision missions. At the same time, both SEA and BA had weak
management capacities for carrying out the project and these, coupled with
frequent turnover of project management staff, negatively impacted on
project implementation.
11.      Consulting Services
11.01    Performance of all consultants under the project has been
satisfactory. SEA contracted two consultants to supervise technical
aspects of the project relating to cocoa and coffee production.
Consultants on cocoa and coffee research, training, and transfer of
technology were not hired, in part because of frequent changes in SEA's
project management staff (SEA had approximately six changes in
administration during project implementation) and SEA's disinterest in
hiring consultants for this project. In 1988, SEA contracted (with project
funds) with the Agricultural Policies Studies Uni;. of the National
Agricultural Council (Unidad de Estudios Agropecuarios del Consejo Nacional
de Agricultura (CNA)) for the preparation of the follow-up coffee
development project. The performance of the consultants has been
satisfactory. In August 1989, consultants of the Inter-American Institute
of Cooperation for Agriculture (IICA), were hired to prepare the PCR and a
study financed by the project to provide recommendations for improving
SEA's institutional structure.
12.      Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01    The legal documents for this project were adequate and the Loan
Agreement was amended on three occasions: extension of the effectiveness
date, closing date and the Hurricane Emergency Relief Measures. The Staff
Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower



- 10 -
during project implementation. As stated in para. 6.02, the project
suffered from lack of reliable statistical information. Data available for
the preparation of this PCR were therefore inadequate. As stated in
paras. 8.02 and 9.02, the lessons from this experience with respect to the
development of project data bases is that the Bank loan should have
financed part of the M&E costs. Trained technical staff for this work
should have been hired for the full implementation stage.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower has completed a full Project Completion Report (PCR).
Attached is the unedited text of the Borrower's PCR from which we have deleted
the descriptive portions of the report. The full PCR and Annexes are available
in this Division.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2023-DO
1. The Prolect
Title                               Cocoa and Coffee Development Project
Loan No.                            2023-DO
Regional Vice Presidency            Latin America
Country                             Dominican Republic
Sector                             Agriculture
Subsector                           Cocoa and Coffee
Loan Amount                         US$24.0 million
2.       Results
2.01     In this section we shall compare the results after completion of
project execution with those predicated at the time of initial appraisal as well
as those estimated in October 1987, when the project was reappraised and new
objectives were added. We shall also analyze the financial situation of the
production units and present the results of an economic analysis of the
project.
2.02     The goals of improving the incomes of small-scale cocoa and coffee
growers and of raising both output and productivity of these commodities were
achieved only in part (see Annex 1-D, pages 14-15).
2.03     The total cost of the project at the time of completion (June 30, 1989)
was approximately US$28.7 million. This represents 72? of the initial appraised
cost of US$40.0 million, and 90? of the US$31.7 million estimated cost of the
reformulated project.
2.04     The project was intended to finance investments for an estimated 9,800
independent small farmers, on a total of approximately 16,000 ha. To this end,
roughly US$30.0 million (75Z of the total cost of the project) was initially
allocated to medium- and long-term subloans. When the project was reappraised,
US$15.0 million was reallocated to subloans (i.e. 502 of the original amount and
47Z of the total cost of the project as reappraised) and US$2.4 million was
allocated to short-term loans for coffee marketing.
2.05     The final figures for the main technical coefficients for the credit
component, such as number of beneficiaries, number of subloans approved and



- 14 -
disbursed, area rehabilitated and replanted, etc., reveal certain
inconsistencies in relation to the figures shown in the progress reports. The
fig-Ares for loan approvals that appeared in BA's reports would seem to be
rather high. Nonetheless, it is estimated that 2,150 ha of cocoa plantings
were rehabilitated and that 3,500 ha of cocoa and 3,650 ha of coffee were
replanted. It is also estimated that incremental cocoa production was
1,856 metric tons, and that the corresponding figure for coffee was 2,085 tons,
representing 34Z and 582, respectively, of the original estimates (see
Annex 1-D, page 15).
2.06     Our analysis of the credit component focused on loan amounts approved
and disbursed to subborrowers, disregarding figures from the portfolio in
arrears, in view of the fact that most of the subloans were not disbursed in
their entirety.
2.07     At the time of the initial appraisal, US$2.3 million had be-n estimated
as the amount needed for subloans for rehabilitation of cocoa plantings.
However, when the project was reappraised, it was recognized that there was
greater demand for replanting; the amount allocated for rehabilitation was
accordingly reduced to US$1.3 million. Despite this, the volume of subloans
approved by BA to date amounts to US$2.0 million, of which US$1.1 million has
been disbursed to farmers, representing 832 of the estimated amount (see
Annex 1-D, page 14).
2.08     Initially, US$8.4 million was allocated to subloans for cocoa
replanting; this was subsequently reduced to US$5.3 million when the project was
reappraised. The amount actually disbursed to growers was US$4.6 million (87%
of estimate), even though total subloans approved for operations of this type
amounted to US$10.0 million, i.e. 87Z above the amount earmarked for replanting
(see Annex 1-D, page 14).
2.09     As a percentage of total amounts approved for cocoa rehabilitation and
replanting, subloans actually disbursed to farmers represented 56% and 462,
respectively (see Annex 1-D, page 14).
2.10     The amount set aside for coffee replanting in the original appraisal
was US$16.1 million, which was adjusted downward to US$3.7 million during the
reappraisal. Disbursements amounted to US$4.7 million, or 110% of estimate.
Nonetheless, since subloan approvals amounted to US$15.3 million, actual
disbursements represented only 312 of the amounts approved (see Annex 1-D,
page 14).
2.11     The main reasons for this disparity between amounts approved and
amounts disbursed were: (a) there were significant shortcomings in the
technical assistance made available to farmers, in that the extension agents did
not receive continuing training and were paid low salaries, resulting in high
turnover and, on two occasions, in general strikes by Dominican agronomists each
lasting a number of months; and (b) the great majority of subborrowers signed
their loan agreements but failed to carry out their investment plans because of
lack of continuity in technical assistance, lack of plant material during the
sowing period, BA's lack of liquidity, higher interest rates on loans introduced
in 1988, and disincentives due to falling prices on international markets.



- 15 -
2.12     No files on subloans for coffee nurseries were found in BA branch
offices. Despite this, IBRD disbursed US$468,000 under this heading. The
explanation given to us was that BA disbursed the money to producers to purchase
plant material included in their investment plans. The funds were channeled to
the beneficiaries, but BA grouped together disbursements to farmers for
nurseries and presented them, for purposes of reimbursement by IBRD, separately
as independent subloans.
2.13     SEA supported the establishment of private nurseries in the more remote
areas, providing polyethylene covers at cost or donating them to the farmers.
It also used project funds to support existing government nurseries, which
provided loan beneficiaries wiith the plant material they required.
2.14     In the case of the subloans for crop processing, there was great demand
for cocoa driers. A total of US$665,000 was budgeted when the project was
reappraised, but US$1.1 million (173Z) was disbursed. Despite this, total
subloan agreements came to US$1.4 million, so that disbursements represe.ated
only 83Z of the amount approved. The costs of driers were not updated to
reflect the higher cost of rails and lumber (see Annex 1-D, page 14).
2.15     The reappraisal estimated the amount required for cocoa fermentution
boxes at US$319,000; loans in the amount of US$79,780 were approved, and
US$18,000 (222 of the amount approved) was actually disbursed (see Annex 1-D,
page 14). The main reason for the lack of demand for loans in this category
lies in the fact that the difference in quality between fermented cocoa
("Hispaniola" grade) and unfermented cocoa ('Sanchez' grade) is not reflected in
the prices paid to producers. Over the past three years, GTZ (the Federal
German technical cooperation agency) has been working to improve the quality of
cocoa for export and has organized three "blocks" of cocoa growers associations
(with another two in course of establishment) to improve their negotiating
position vis-a-vis exporters and to reduce the role of intermediaries in the
marketing process.  These association blocks are already upgrading the quality
of cocoa and receiving a positive price differential (see Annex 6-L).
2.16     At the t1me of reappraisal, it was estimated that US$0.3 million in
subloans would be needed for the purchase of coffee depulpers; loans in the
amount of US$0.4 million were approved, but only US$63,000 was disbursed, a mere
15 of the amount approved (see Annex 1-D, page 14). The reasons for the slow
pace of disbursement were as follows: (a) one single company was awarded the
contract to produce the depulpexs; (b) the company that had been awarded the
contract dragged its heels because, at the time of signing, it was forced to
recognize a 202 increase in the cost of production; and (c) technical
shortcomings were found in the depulpers, attributable to the company's lack of
manufacturing experience, which resulted in returns and running repairs.
2.17     Looked at in its entirety, i.e. including short-term subloans for
coffee marketing, the project had by June 30, 1989 disbursed US$13.3 million out
of an estimated US$15.0 million (see Annex 1-D); the undisbursed balance thus
amounted to approximately US$1., million.  However, as of the same date, the
total volume of subloans approved stood at US$31.6 million. Based on these
figures, therefore, the project faces a shortfall of US$16.8 million that will
have to be financed using outside funds, since recoveries on earlier subloans
will not be significant. The ratio between loans disbursed and loans approved,
which stood at 312 at the end of 1986, rose to 422 at the end of 1987 (the year



- 16 -
in which the project was reappraised) and remained steady at that level on
June 30, 1989.
2.18     If we look at subloan approvals in isolation, the project did meet its
goals in terms of amounts channeled to beneficiaries and cocoa and coffee
replanting. As regards cocoa rehabilitation, execution equaled approximately
56Z because of reduced demand from farmers for rehabilitation loans. However,
if we were to examine overall performance of the credit component, the fact that
total disbursements to farmers represented only 42Z of loan approvals means that
it is impossible to estimate the exact number of beneficiaries or the number of
ha rehabilitated or replanted, since there are no figures for farmers who have
completed their investment p'ans.
2.19     For the same reason, it is not possible to generalize on the subject of
the yields it is hoped to obtain when the plantings reach full production. The
figures for surface, yields and production have been estimated from field
interviews conducted in March-June 1989 into production costs and yields, as
well as from documents dealing with this subject. The project was not designed
to have a major impact on the country's coffee production and exports.
2.20     It is estimated that subloans were approved for replanting 6,400 ha of
coffee (160? of the area estimated at the time of reappraisal), representing
4.2Z of the area planted to coffee in the country (see Annexes 1-D, 2-A and
6-D). The area actually replanted thanks to the project was approximately
3,650 ha, or 22 of the area sown to coffee in the Dominican Republic.
2.21     The situation is different for cocoa.  According to the 1987 National
Cocoa Survey, a total of 121,040 ha are sown to cocoa (see Annex 6-C). The
project was planned to benefit approximately 10,400 ha, and loans were approved
for approximately 11,000 ha, or 9Z of the area planted to cocoa (see Annexes 2-A
and 1-D). There is no reliable information available regarding the area covered
by subloans actually disbursed.
2.22     The project was unable to achieve all of the technological targets
recommended in regard to cultural practices. In the case of cocoa, the lack of
producer price incentives resulted in no increase in quality through the use of
fermentation boxes. However, there is now substantial technical capacity
available within SEA's Coffee and Cocoa Departments, and the Government is
strongly promoting these commodities, as is evident from current activities in
the fields of research, shade control, production and dissemination of plant
material to producers to assist in uparading existing cocoa and coffee
plantings.
2.23     When coffee rust appeared in the Dominican Republic, SEA responded
quickly with an Immediate Action Plan and a Short Term Plan recommended by IICA.
The Immediate Action Plan was carried out, albeit with some delay, attributable
mainly to the shortage of agrochemicals in the country. The cost of this
program was RD$ 1.7 million. A National Anti-Rust Commission was established
immediately, and the National Program Against Coffee Rust was instituted a
little l&ter. IICA consultants visited the affected areas and helped draw up
the Short Term Plan, which cost approximately RD$ 2.8 million (excluding cost of
permanent technical and administrative personnel). USAID financed this program
under PL 480.



- 17 -
2.24     The Coffee and Cocoa Commissions, set up in January and AUgUSt 1976,
respectively, assisted SEA in preparing policies for development of the coffee
and cocoa subsectors, and they administer the funds derived from contributions
by exporters of both commodities.  It is estimated that roughly 501 of the
contributions received by the two commissions is channeled to SEA'S Cocoa and
Coffee Departments (see Annexes 6-E and 6-F). It is hoped ro use these funds to
continue to assist the large majority of farmers in, wherever possible,
maintaining young plantations with little shade, located in the best possible
habitat in terms of soils, climate and elevation above sea level, so that the
spread of coffee rust can be controlled and the output and productivity of both
crops can be maintained.
2.25     When the project was reappraised, US$2.0 million from the IBRD loan was
assigned to purchase machinery and equipment for the Coffee and Cocoa
Commissions. To date, roughly US$0.8 million of this has been disbursed
(see Annex 1-C, page 10).
Financial Analysis of the Proiect
2.26     The benefits to producers were anaiyzed on the basis of typical farm
models described in Annex 4-A. The financial assumptions underlying these
models reflect investments, operating costs and product prices at the farm level
for March-April 1989, adjusted (in the case of coffee and cocoa) to reflect
changes in real prices made by IBRD's International Commodity Markets Division
(see Annex 4-E).
2.27     The benefits to producers in constant 1980 prices and the financial
rates of return for subborrowers, compared with those calculated when the
project was first appraised, are presented in the following table:



- 18 -
&ble1.   Comparison (Initial Appraisal vs. Completion Report) of Benefite
to Produceru and Financial Rates of Return for Various Farm Modol.
COCOA                          COFFEE
Rehabilitation           Replanting          Replanting
Init.    Compl-t.     Init.    Complot.    Init.  Complotion
Appr.    Report       Appr.     Report      Appr.  Report
(in constant 1980 RD poeso)
1. Average farm
s ie (ha)                      2.8       4.0       2.8       2.7        1.0       1.8
2. Investment                 1,000.0   1,692.0   1,160.0   8,644.0   2,800.0   6,811.0
S. Yearly income 'ter
full development !/
Wj/o projet kt          1,160.0      878.0     800.0       88.0     186.0     492.0
With project k/         2,070.0   1,272.0   8,810.0      477.0   1,220.0   2,964.0
Increase (M)               80.0     236.0      818.0   1,166.0    689.0      602.0
1. Debt service
with the project d/         800.0      407.0     660.0   1,028.0      780.0   1,080.0
S. Not lncomi after
finncing                 1,770.0      865.0   2,650.0   (548)        490.0   1,884.0
6. Internal fdnoncial
rate of return (X)
- before financing           8'.0       18.0      67.0      18.0       24.0      24.0
- after ftnancing                       19.0       -        18.0        -        42.0
!/ Full development Is reached in year 6 for cocoa rehabilitation, year 8 for
cocoa replanting, and year C- for coffee replanting.
k/ Includes remuneration of family labor.
g/ At full development.



- 19 -
2.28     The results of the financial analysis indicate that A11 three farm
models produce an acceptable rate of return in relation to the opportunity cost
of capital to farmers (142). However, having regard to the fact that the
opportunity cost of capital is now higher than that used in the analysis, the
results indicate that cocoa rehabilitation and replanting would not be
attractive to growers. For the cocoa models, the results reflect the low prices
being paid to producers as a result of the slump in world markets, current tax
policies and high costs of production in an inflationary environment. If the
yearly income flow to cocoa growers is to improve, the following would have to
be included in rehabilitation and replanting programs: (a) provision of
short-term subsistence loans to tide producers over the establishment period;
(b) extended grace and amortization periods for long-term loans; and (c) changes
in the tax system to take account of international prices and current production
costs (see Annex 4-A).
Economic Analysis of the Project
2.29     Economic analysis of the project as a whole shows that promoting cocoa
and coffee production is attractive for society, having regard to the 37?
internal rate r' return, which contrasts favorably with the social opportunity
cost of capital, estimated by the Central Bank at 122. When this result is
compared with that estimated in the initial appraisal (61Z), it should be noted
that the difference may reside in the fact that the cocoa and coffee yields used
in the present analysis followed the pattern observed in field interviews, while
the yield estimates for the initial appraisal were more optimistic. In
addition, the price estimates employed in the present analysis are 14? below
initial appraisal for coffee and 50? before that figure for cocoa.
2.30     Sensitivity analysis indicates that the v:o4ect is highly stable, in
that it can withstand as much as an 84Z increase in cost or a 462 decrease In
income when the internal rate of return is held a, the same level as the social
opportunity cost of capital.
Other Results
2.31     The project has not had any significant efte t at the macroeconomic
level. It is not yet possible to assess its impact Ct, sector growth because the
growing areas that benefited from the project are very ,mall in relation to the
total area devoted to these two crops. Moreover, the project's slow pace of
implementation means that more than half of the farms that received assistance
are still in the establishment or development phase.
2.32     Nor has it had any impact on the executing agencies.  Nonetheless, the
Government is discussing the next coffee project with IBRD, currently in the
initial preappraisal stage; to this end, project-financed studies are under way
designed to make changes to the organizational structure of SEA and BA, and
discussions are continuing on policies affecting the sector.
2.33     As regards development of the human resources involved, it should be
noted that extension agents and loan agents were trained during the early years
of the project. Many of the extension agents subsequently left the project,
making its further development difficult. The project was, however, able to
maintain a group of experts in SEA's Coffee anl Cocoa Departments, financed in



- 20 -
part by the Coffee and Cocoa Commissions. One of the more successful activities
carried out by these departments has been the setting up of coffee and cocoa
nurseries, which have now overcome their teething problems and are currently
providing a satisfactory service (see Annex 6-K).
2.34     Another positive result of the project has been the improved
institutional coordination that has existed from the beginning between SEA's
extension agents and BA's loan agents.
2.35     The project can help produce a positive impact on the environment,
particularly on steep hillsides where investments for replanting have been
completed; here the environment is being protected and the coffee trees have
been planted in accordance with proper soil conservation procedures.
2.36     When the project was reappraised, loan funds were provided to finance
short-term subloans to help coffee grower associations market their coffee.
This line of credit produced positive results, enabling growers to maximize
their incomes.
3.       IBRD Activities
3.01     The role played by IBRD needs to be examined over two phases of the
project, the first extending from identification to initial appraisal, and the
second covering execution of the ?roject.
3.02     In the first phase, IBRD's activities were less than satisfactory,
because even though IBRD was represented on the project identification and
preparation missions it took no steps to examine alternative forms of
institutional organization and managemert that would have guaranteed greater
stability and continuity in the executing agencies. Although SEA was selected
to be the organization responsible for executior of the project, and channels
for coordination with BA were duly established, no measures were taken during
the preparation of the project to reduce turnover among the technical and
managerial staff assigned to the project.
3.03     Still in connection with phase 1 of the operation, IBRD failed to
conduct an in-depth analysis of BA as an institution, even though this was to be
its first farm credit operation in the country.
3.04     During phase 2 (the execution phase) of the project, IBRD's involvement
was based on maintaining a flexible relationship with the Government (in the
form of SEA and BA). IBRD provided support in resolving operational problems as
they arose. Especially deserving of mention was IBRD's support in thrice
extending the closing date for the project; in agreeing to a reformulation of
the project to finance other activities of importance to the country; and also
in agreeing to the use of 2023-DO funds to prepare a project for the development
of coffee and nontraditional export crops, together with a study designed to
improve SEA's organizational structure.
3.05     IBRD's supervision procedures were not effective in intervening in
basic areas when failure to carry out certain key activities occurred, as in the
following: (a) failure to hire consultants for modernization and staff training
plans; (b) hiring of extension workers at low pay and with no incentives; and
(c) rapid turnover among the personnel directing the project.



- 21 -
3.06     The main lessons to be drawn from this project that may be relevant
for the execution of other IBRD-financed projects are as follows:
(a) Prior to the initial appraisal of a project in the Dominican Republic,
IBRD should undertake an analysis of the institutional aspects and the
managerial capacity of the institutions involved in the project, with a
view to preparing a number of alternative management models that will
ensure a measure of permanency among the staff involved in the project
during its execution phase.
(b) IBRD's experience in the Dominican Republic shows that loan
disbursement has been very slow, due mainly to the absence to timely
and sufficient budgetary counterpart funds. Given this situation,
future IBRD projects should ensure that flexible disbursement
procedures are established by setting up funds that can make payments
against presentation of the appropriate documentation. The sector has
experience with other financial institutions that have set up "Advance
Accounts" which should be viewed as appropriate in the future.
(c) Low salaries, combined with the steady decline in the purchasing power
of the Dominican peso, resulted in a steady stream of resignations by
SEA extension workers; on two occasions, in 1985 and 1988, the experts
went on strikes that led to a shutdown in their work throughout the
country for several months. The technical assistance and supervised
credit operations functioned well in the early years of the project,
but gradually decline set in and the BA loan agents had to take over
the extension workers' duties during the two lengthy strikes. Despite
the fact that the project provided financing for a sizable number of
additional experts to be taken on at salaries 302 higher than
what the extension workers were being paid, SEA in fact hired them on
the same terms and conditions as the others, without offering any
additional incentive (the extension workers' salaries were paid out of
counterpart funds). In projects similar to the one being reviewed
here, IBRD ought to verify that support services to beneficiaries are
duly considered within the financing plan and that the salaries of
participating experts are adjusted periodically for inflation as
reported by the Central Bank.
(d) Planning and general coordination were weak throughout the project's
execution, as a result of high SEA staff turnover and poor follow-up
and evaluation. In future projects, IBRD should support the financing
of %onitoring and Evaluation Units with project funds from the outset,
so as to organize a system of information that will report progress and
identify problems and thus enable corrective action to be taken in
timely fashion.
4.       Institutional Activities
4.01     Early in 1980, SEA began the process of project preparation by setting
up a special unit staffed by experts from the Plans, Programs and Projects
Department of the Undersecretariat for Sectoral Planning, together with experts
from the Undersecretariat for Crop Production and the Undersecretariat for
Agricultural Research, Extension and Training, through the Coffee, Cocoa and
Research Departments. Farm credit specialists from BA were also included. This
unit presented the draft project to the FAO/CP and IBRD experts.



- 22 -
Problems that Occurred
(a) One of the main problems that affected the project during the first
five years of its execution was the absence of sufficient and timely
counterpart budget funds, a problem that cannot be laid at the feet of
either SEA or BA but is entirely the responsibility of the Central
Government. This problem was temporarily resolved after the project
was reformulated, when IBRD demanded as a condition for effectiveness
that counterpart budget funds be advanced.
As intended, the Technical Undersecretariat for Sectoral Planning
(STPSA) within SEA was in charge of coordinating the entire project.
Responsibility for direct execution of the project components lay with:
(a) BA in regard to providing farmers with credit; and (b) SEA for
provision of technical assistance services, provision of training to
experts and farmers, and development of government nurseries through
its Coffee and Cocoa Departments, which are part of the
Undersecretariat for Production, in coordination with the
Undersecretariat for Agricultural Research, Extension and Training. In
addition, the External Resources and Control and Evaluation
Departments, which report to STPSA, were involved in matters pertaining
to general coordination and monitoring and evaluation of project
execution. Lastly, the Administrative Subsecretariat participated in
regard to matters falling within its purview.
At field level, the SEA extension workers collaborated with the
supervised credit extended to beneficiaries.
During execution of the project, SEA satisfactorily procured vehicles
and equipment under international competitive bidding. Other
procurement items were purchased by local bidding, likewise in a
satisfactory manner (see Annex 6-I).
(b) When the project began, appropriate coordination mechanisms were
established within SEA, both at hp "quarters management and field
level, and also between SEA and B   :perts.  However, it must be
pointed out that coordination was adversely affected by frequent
changes in SEA management staff. Over the course of six years, there
were six changes of Minister, five different Undersecretaries, seven
Directors of thie External Resources Department, and seven Project
Coordinators. The high turnover among extension workers also resulted
in a lack of continuity and inadequate planning of field activities,
with consequent delays in project execution. It should be noted that
BA's field experts enjoyed better working conditions.
(c) The IBRD loan was disbursed extremely slowly. Five years after
project start-up, only US$8.8 ".llion of the US$24.0 loan amount, or
372, had been disbursed (see Annex 1-C). SEA's administrative
procedures were complex and cumbersome, and the mechanisms for
obtaining reimbursement on both counterpart funds and IBRD funds were
extremely slow and complicated, requiring countless approvals from
various public agencies. The documents had to pass through 19 offices



- 23 -
in seven government agencies. In order to speed up the IBRD
disbursement process, a Special Account, denominated in dollars, was
opened in the Central Bank a few months after the loan became
effective, but this proved unsuccessful due to the slow and cumbersome
nature of the reimbursement process.
However, this account was used by SEA to receive loan advances which
were automatically converted into local currency. For disbursements to
be made from this account, all the documentation evidencing the
eligible outlays had to be submitted, together with Central Bank
approval. As a result of the devaluation of the Dominican peso, SEA
had to justify the outlays made with the excess funds received. One of
the conditions for effectiveness of the reformulated project (1987) was
presentation by SEA to IBRD of documentation evidencing the
expenditures incurred with the advances received.
(d) Both SEA and BA hired technical staff to work in the field and began to
train them. A short-time international cocoa and coffee consultant was
hired, and the necessary vehicles and equipment were procured. An
intensive promotional camp.aign was needed to persuade the farmers to
participate in the project. After this phase, which lasted a few
months, the demand for credit began to grow.
However, the training program was not carried out in its entirety,
either locally or abroad, even though the project had sufficient funds
for this component.
Ce) Not all of the international consultants scheduled were actually
hired.
(f) Project files were not kept, possibly as a result of the high turnover
among management staff.
(g) The loan did not finance follow-up and evaluation activities, and so
proper mechanisms were not set up from the start. SEA's progress
reports did not meet the purposes intended by IBRD.  They were not
systematic in terms of follow-up and presentation of information on a
year-by-year basis, and there were delays in sending them to IBRD (see
Annex 1-E).
(h)  Some of the vehicles purchased in the final call for bids using
project funds that should have gone to the Cocoa and Coffee
Departments were in fact assigned to other departments within SEA, in
response to different priorities.
(i) The audit reports for the first three years of the project were
subuitted to IBRD in August 1985, and subsequent reports were each
submitted three to four months late (see Annex 1-E).
(j) The system of accounts maintained by Banco Agricola for the project
was flawed in that, within each branch, funds were not separated by
origin, nor were user contributions shown in the books; this latter
information was later added to the Data Processing Center's computer
program, specifically for loan approvals, but as it was not shown in



- 24 -
the books it could not be reported in the disbursements. In addition,
project resources and loans are handled separately through Plan 38 and
its various subplans by subproject and utilization or line of action.
The shortcomings in loan follow-up and the fact that in many cases
project beneficiaries did not receive disbursements on time, resulting
in failure to achieve project goals and loss of interest on the part of
beneficiaries, were due essentially to the project's precarious
finances. With BA unable to support the project properly, growers in
turn were unable to carry out scheduled work programs, etc.
The transfer of the project to the North Central, Northwestern and
Northern parts of the country was occasioned by the presence there of
producers carrying out coffee replanting operations using BA funds --
producers who had earlier received information and training in the
relevant techniques. Because of the speed with which the operation was
carried out, a number of unqualified applicants were included, but
these were later excluded.
4.02     BA experienced liquidity problems and its overall loan portfolio
has continued to show a high delinquency rate. Despite this, it should be
noted that SEA was extremely slow in disbursing the loan component funds to
BA. By way of example, it may be noted that from January to July of this
year BA received only RD$ 3.0 million from SEA, the bulk of this
representing funds that BA had advanced to the project out of its own
resources in December 1988. BA advanced a further RD$ 8.9 million to the
project in the first half of 1985.
4.03     The main lessons to be drawn from SEA's and BA's experience in
this project that would be relevant for the preparation and execution of
other locally or externally funded projects are as follows:
(a)  SEA and BA are passing through an acute institutional crisis.  Both
institutions require changes in their organizational structure and in
their technical personnel to enhance their operating efficiency. At
the time of writing, a study is being carried out on the Organization
and Restructuring of STPSA and SEA, and another into the more effective
provision of services.
(b) The loan did not finance the project follow-up and evaluation
activitiea that were to have been financed out of counterpart funds.
SEA's Control and Evaluation Department did not receive financial
support to organize and operate a proper information system to obtain
basic data directly from the field (such as area seeded, number of
beneficiaries, yields obtained, costs of production, technology
employed, etc.), together with progress achieved and problems
encountered. The reports prepared were based in large measure on
information provided by the Coffee and Cocoa Departments as executing
agencies, together with very sporadic collection of primary data.
Subsequently, with financing provided under the IFAD II Project
(Loan 98-DO), SEA signed an agreement with IICA on June 21, 1988 to
prepare completion reports for the IFAD II and Cocoa and Coffee
Development projects, including the design of a Monitoring and
Evaluation System for three basic SEA services and the methodological
basis for projects along the lines of IFAD II.



-25-
(c) SEA. was not successful in improving the quality of cocoa by
introducing a fermentation step prior to drying. In view of the
success being achieved by "blocks" of cocoa growers associations in
marketing better-quality cocoa, the possibility of introducing
legislation to secure better prices for higher-quality cocoa should be
examined.
(d) Despite the fact that BA had a ccmputing system at headquarters that
received information from the branch offices, it was used solely for
administrative and bookkeeping purposes and was neither integrated into
nor coordinated with the Project Coordination Office within BA, so that
there was no consistency between the information provided by the two
sources. For future loan projects, BA should establish an appropriate
follow-up system, and the accounts for each project should be treated
separately, making it possible to obtain specific information.
5. Relations Among the Participating Institutions
5.01     So far we have pointed out the strengths and weaknesses in individual
performance by IBRD and the two national institutions involved in the project
(SEA and BA). Although there was coordination throughout the entire process
among the various institutions involved in project execution, this was not
sufficient to bring about the necessary adjustments in the way the project was
organized and administered both by IBRD and by the national institutions.
5.02     As already indicated, relations between SEA and BA were well
coordinated. Relations between these two institutions and other national
agencies were cordial, but the way in which the project was organized resulted
in highly complex and bureaucratic administrative procedures for securing loan
resources through disbursements out of the Special Account in the Central Bank
as well as local counterpart funds. The lessons to be drawn in regard to SEA's
relations with other institutions are as follows: (a) in the policy fields
SEA's institutional structure needs to be strengthened to enhance its role in
the definition of farm policy and it needs to be provided with the necessary
instruments to execute this policy in such a way as to avoid duplication of
effort and irrational use of resources; (b) in the technical field: SEA's
management procedures need to be improved, in order to better coordinate and
organize the sectoral planning agencies and consolidate the technical support
provided to the Technical Undersecretariat for Sectoral Planning, so that the
latter can centralize the policy programmed for the institutions making up the
sector; (c) in the administrative field: SEA should be provided with sufficient
financial resources in a timely manner, together with the requisite qualified
technical and administrative staff earning appropriate salaries and receiving
adequate incentives.
5.03     Projects of this nature must clearly be designed in conjunction with
measures to strengthen and improve the institutional structure, and provided
with sufficient and timely technical and financial resources, in order to
enhance the institutions' management capacities.
5.04     The lessons that can be drawn from BA's relations are as follows:
(a) in the policy field: BA must have sufficient resources to make it the chief
executing agency for lending policy, in close coordination with SEA; (b) in the
technical field: its loan portfolio and recoveries follow-up and monitoring



- 26 -
system must be iWproved by introducing a more efficient computer systems (c) in
the administrative field: BA needs to restructure its organization from the
branch level up to streamline its lending procedures, and it should have
sufficient funds to enable it to maintain liquidity and employ qualified staff
in all the areas in which it is active.



- 27 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
Related Bank Loons and/or Crodits 
Loan/Credit                                         Year of
Title                        PureosO              Approval       Status           Comentn
Livestock Dovolopment Prj.   Increoas                May 1971     Closed In      It was  uccessful In
(Cr. 246-50)                 production                           July 1977      tnereaing produe-
and producti-                                      tion. However,
vIty of mat                                        participante were few
and milk producing                                 big formers. It had
fares.                                              Institutional problem.
Yaque del Norte Irrig.       Increase product-       Jan 1978     Cloed in       Impl emanton took five
(Cr. 862-00)                 ion of about 23,900                  June 1981      more years than
he financing Irriga-                               expected due to delas
tion and drainage                                   in approving legisla-
civil works (it was                                tion to speed up the
cofinanced by 103).                                Agrarian reform In
Irrigated areas.
It had Institutional
problim.
Nizao Irrigation Project     Increase production    Jan 1979      Closed In      Deloys for Insufficient
(Loan 165640)                end productivity of                  Doc 1987.      counterpart funds.
about 12,00  ha                                    The impact of the
financing Irriga-                                  project was positive.
tion civil wor7k.                                   It had Instituticoal
problems.
Sugar Roabiittation         Rehabilitate the       Sep 1979      It to still    Problems in procurement
Project (Loan 17890D0)       equlpment and                        under imple-   procsosn to acquire
machinery of the                    mentation 7   the equipment end
sugar Industry.                     years after   and machinery.  Up to
the loan       May 31, 1988 only 32X
offectiveness  of the loan had been
date.          disbursed.
/ Approved before tho Cocoa and Coffee Development Project. Since June 1981 the Bank has not
Granted a now loen In the Agricultural Sector.



- 28 -
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELO'YMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2023-DO
Proiect Timietable
Date            Date             Date
Item                    Planned          Revised          Actual
Government Identification 1/                                         09/79
Identification FAO/CP
(Executive Project Summary)      01/22/80                          01/22180
Preparation FAO/CP                 05/05180                         05/05/80
Preappraisal Mission               08/04/80           -             08/04/80
Appraisal Mission                  08/10/80         11/10/80         11/10/80
Loan Negotiations                  04128/81           -              04/28/81
Board Approval                     03/81           06/81            06/23/81
Loan Signature                     09/30/81           -             09/24/81
Loan Effectiveness                 12/24/81         03/31/82
06/30/82
09/30182        09/01/82
Project Redesigned 2/                -                -             10/05/87
Board Approval of the re-
designed project                12/03/87            -             12/16/87
Loan Agreement Amended
Signature                       12/15/87           -              02/18/88
Redesigned Loan
Effectiveness                   12/15/87           -              03/18/88
Loan Closing                       06/30/86        06/30/87
06/30/88
06/30/89        06/30/89
Project Completion Report          12/31/89
1/ Government asked Bank support after Hurricanes David and Frederick hit the
country on August 31 and September 3, 1979 respectively.
21 Loan Agreement amended to accommodate emergency relief measures in the wake
of hurricane Emily that hit the country on September 21, 1987.



- 29 -
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
The issues raised at each stage of the project cycle weret
Identification
- lack of technical specialized staff in cocoa and coffee;
- subloans to beneficiaries with negative interest rates in real terms;
- low prices of cocoa and coffee in the world market.
PreDaration
- negative interest rates in subloans to farmers.
PreaDpraisal
- institutional arrangements;
- Bank financing project costs.
ApDraisal
- Bank financing project costs.
Negotiations
- Bank financing project costs;
- BA capitalization with Bank and Government project funds;
- credit conditions to subborrowers.
Loan Effectiveness
- delays in Congress of Dominican Republic ratification of the Loan
Agreement;
- delays in signing the subsidiary agreement between SEA and BA;
- the electoral process in the country practically stopped the public
sector activities in 1982.
Project Redesigned
- lack of liquidity of BA and counterpart funds;
- lack of credit funds to finance short-term subloans for coffee
marketing;
- long and complex process for withdrawal of funds from the Special
Account;
- the project Special Account in the Central Bank that was kept in
Dominican pesos instead of dollars and the inappropriate use of this
account; and
- the mobility of the SEA technical staff.
Loan Agreement Amended SiRnature
- lack of SEA documentation to prove expenses incurred with the Special
Account Funds.



- 30 -
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Project Closina
- lack of sufficient counterpart funds and lack of BA Liquidity;
- high mobility of SEA technical staff;
- inefficient project monitoring and evaluation;
- poor disbursement received by beneficiaries (39S of committed Credit
Funds);
- the parallel program of cocoa and coffee rehabilitation that was
financed by the same SEA departments of Cocoa and Coffee (tn charge
of the Bank project and without Bank knowledge; and
- the continuous deterioration of the management capacity of SEA and BA
to implement projects with external financing.



- 31 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2023-DO
Cumulative Estimates and Actual Disbursements
-___F___________________- EY l/ ---------------------------
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Appraisal Estimate    5,400  15,000  21,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000
(USs '000)
Actual (US$'O0O)      -        2,000   3,434   6,905   7,983   8,820  14,094  23,577
Actual as S of Est.   -         13      16      29      33      37       59      98
Date of final disbursements March 14, 1990
Cancelled amount: US$423,382
I/ Bank fiscal year (July 1 to June 30)



- 32 -
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2023-DO
Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
(US$ '000)
Actual as 1
Redesigned           Actual           of Redesigned
Estimates  1/       (6130189)            Estimate
1. Investment Credit 21
1A. Cocoa Rehabilitation                  1,620               1,225                   76
1B. Cocoa Replanting                      6,234               4,245                   68
1C. Coffee Replanting                     4,500               5,003                  111
ID. Private Coffee Nurseries                466                 467                  100
1E. Processing Facilities                 1,847               1,256                   68
(1B) Short-term Credit for Coffee
Marketing                               2.682.              1,993                   74
Subtotal Credit                      17,349              14,189                   82
2. Consulting Services                         100                  77                    77
3. Goods Acquisitions
3A. Vehicles and Equipment                1,000                 450                   45
3B. Materials and Equipment for
Nurseries                              300                 332                   11
3C. Equipment and Machinery (Roads)       2,000               1,212                   61
3D. Equipment and Machinery (Canals)    2,000                   784                   39
4. Fertilizers                               6,000               6,000                  100
Dominican Government 31                   3,870               5.160                  133
TOTAL                         32,619              28,204                    86
1/ Includes reallocation of Funds between categories up to 4/05/89.
2/ The credit Categories 1(A) through 1(B) include the funds from beneficiaries as well as
the Dominican Government.
3/ Does not include credit counterpart funds; covers technical services only.



- 33 -
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
B. Proiect Financing
(US$'000)
Redesigned
Sources of Funds                      Appraisal             Project
& Financing                         Estimates            Estimates           Actual
Categories                          (11/80)               (10/87)          !06/30/89)
I. Bank
(1) Investment Credit
1A. Cocoa Rehabilitation                  1,600               1,134                913
1B. Cocoa Replanting                      6,000               4,350              3,719
1C. Coffee Replanting                    11,400               3,150              3,543
ID. Private Coffee Nurseries                400                 466                467
1E. Processing Facilities                 1,600               1.100                997
(1B) Short-term Credit                            -              2.400              1.580
Subtotal Credit                      21,000              12,600            11,219
(2) Consulting Services                        600                 100                 77
(3) Goods Acquisitions
3A. Vehicles and Equipment                  400               1,000                450
3B. Materials and Equipment
for Nurseries                           -                 300               332
3C. Equipment and Machinery (Roads)           -               2.000             1,212
3D. Equipment and Machinery (Canals)          -               2,000                784
(4) Fertilizers                                 -               6,000             6,000
(5) Not allocated                           2,000                   -               -
Bank Subtotal                        24.000              24,000            20.074
II. Dominican ReDublic Government
SEA
- Project Support Services                 3,184               3,184             3,940
- Public Nurseries                           182                 182                694
SEA Subtotal                          3,366               3,366             4,634
BA
- Credit to Farmers                        8,651               3,123             1,557
- Project Support Services                   383                 383                426
BA Subtotal                           9,034               3,506             1,983
Government Subtotal                  12.400               6.872             6.617
III.   Subborrowers
- Investment Credit                        3,600               1,465             1,333
- Short-term Credit                           -                  282        >       180
Subborrowers Subtotal                 3,600               1,747             1,513
TOTAL                            40,000              32,619            28.204



- 34 -
Table 5
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COW4LETION RIPff
DOMINICAN REPABIIC
COCO AO COFFEE DVELaOP     r PRJECT
LOAN 202SDO
SPROJET  gSLTS
A. DRirsect  fn
Credit Conmonent Indicator&
Actual         Agtual Coai-tt.d          Actual          Actual Disbured
Appreaisl    Redesigned       Comitted      a, S of     so # of        Dilburued      as S  tf    a S of
Subloans/                    Estimate.      Estiates       Subloana      Appraisal Redeieand        Subloans       Redeligned  omitted
L1LLtI01      L2ZL3ILU102,118/88   /i/21   Ehti at -        s ti,_t-  M6LSOI.         aes   Sub ben.
_NRTm CRED1T
Cocoa Rehabi ltation
Number                         2.000         1.600             937         47         62                n/n          -          -
At. (US)                   2.285.714     1.620.000       1,s92.000        s8          122         1.225.240          76         62
Avg. Ant. (US)                 1.143         1,000           2,839         206        217               n/a          -          -
Hectare.                       4.600         4,000           8,6sa         s0         92                n/a          -          -
C0o  Re.lantino
Number                         2.800         1,300           2,720         97         200               n/           -          -
Aat. (U)                   8,671.429     6,214,000       9.970.000         116        160         4,242.604          6s         42
Avg. Ant. (US$)                8.061         4,760           4.073         188        85                n/a          -          -
Hectare                        6,400         6,400           7.894         11e        116               n/-
Coffee Re l*ntina
Number                         8,000           n/a           4.60          s8         98                n/-
AM  (I)                   16,288.713    4.800,000      18.848.000         94         841      8.008.197 J           ISl        8a
Avg. mt (US)                   8,287           n/.           8.483         107        n/.               na/
Hectarea                       4,8s7         4,000           6.s9a         181        160             8,400
Private Coffee Nurseries
ttieber                          611     9       9             5/          -          -                  5 
Amt. (US)                    671.480       48,000                          -          -                   -          -          -
Coffee Deauler Machines
Number                         4,600           n/a           2.68          86         -                   -s
Amt. (lI)                 1,881,280       491,000         414.000         80         20             64,490          1s         16
cocoa Feretn   a.
Number                         1.070           800             2m          28         100               n/-
mt. (U5)                     m9.91         440,000          s0.000         27        1s              10.101          2          24
Drying Facilitiee
Numer                            328          lO              889         188       IS9                n/a          -          -
mt. (UN)                     610,818       918,000       1,300,000         227        162         1.172.918          128        aS
Ab,rtte  Credit
Coffee Marketing CMS)              -    2.682.000        2.488,000         -          101         1,998,242          71         82
TOTAL Committed Subloans  2999000    7s2e.0co            l1. 6S9 00A L. B                                             4i
I/ Coffee Replanting eubleens tnalude private coffee nurueries sublobn.
3f Subborrouera films for coffee nur ry subloens have not ben found in OA and eubloens have been included in Coffee Replanting
sublane.



- 35 -
Table 5
Page 2 of 3
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal
Estimate             Actual
Economic Rate of
Return (in X)                      61                  12
Underlying Assumptions
(a)    Investment and Operating Costs were calculated using July 1989 prices
and were assumed to remain constant in real terms;
(b)    The incremental project production was valued utilizing the world
market price adjusted to derive farmgate equivalent; prices for coffee
and cocoa were adjusted to reflect changes in real prices according to
the projections made by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections
Division in January 1990;
(c)    Deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties;
(d)    The exchange rate was adjusted to reflect a real exchange rate of about
33Z higher than the official rate;
(e)    The social opportunity cost of capital was estimated at 12Z (Central
Bank); and
(f)    The analysis was done over 20 years.



- 36 -
Table 5
Page 3 of 3
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
Cocoa Developmnt                    Coffee Development
Rehabilitation        Replanting            ReDlanting
Appraisal          Appraisal           Appraisal
Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual   Estimate        Actual
1. Average Farm Size (ha)             2.3       4.0      2.3       2.7      1.0         1.3
2. Investment Cost                   1,000    1,592    1,600    3,644    2,800         5,311
3. Annual Income at Full
Development 1/
_ without project 2/             1,150      378       800        38      165         492
_ with project 2/                2,070    1,272    3,310        477    1.220       2,964
- relative increase (X)             80      236       313    1,155       639         502
4. Debt Service with Project 3/        300       407      660    1,023        730      1,080
5. Net Income after Debt Service   1,770         865    2,650      (546)     490       1,884
6. Financial Rate of Return (Z)        61        18       57        .6       24          24
1/  Full development would be reached in Year 5 for cocoa rehabilitation, in Year 8
for cocoa renovation, and year 6 for coffee renovation.
2/ Including remuneration of family labor.
3/ At full development.
Comments
- In the case of coffee the investment is attractive to producers.
- Results in the cocoa illustrative models indicate that the low prices the farmer
receives is due to low cocoa international prices, the country policy of export
taxes and higher production costs. To improve annual income of cocoa producers
they need to have short-term subsistance subloans during the investment period,
to increase the grace period of their investment subloans (long-term credit),
and to review the export tax policy which should be in accordance with
international cocca prices and production costs.



- 37 -
Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2023-DO
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant            Subiect                  Comnliance              Status
3.10(b)(iii)   The Borrower will         During the next two    The first progress report
prepare biannual         months of the end of   that covered from October
project progress         semester.               1981 to December 1982 was
reports to be sent                               received by the Bank in
to the Bank.                                     July 1983.  The following
reports were always
received with one or two
months of delay.
4.02(b)(ii)    The Borrower will         During the next six    The three first reports
deliver to the Bank      months of the end       of 1982, 1983 and 1984
for each fiscal          of the fiscal year.    were received by the
year auditing                                    Bank in August 1985.
reports of project                               The 1985 report was
accounts prepared                                received in September
by independent                                   1986.  The 1986 report
auditors.                                        was received in October 1,
1987 and the 1987 report
was received in October
1988.
4.04(a)(i)     BA should keep ade-       During the project      BA did not keep adequate
quate accounts to show  implementation.          accounts to manage and
its operations and                               control the use and appli-
financial condition                              cation of the Bank loan
in accordance with                               funds.  Specifically, BA
adequate accounting                              did not keep separate
practices.                                       expense accounts for each
category. BA electronic
system was not adapted to
the project requirements.



- 38 -
Table 7
PROJECT COMPLET_ON REPORT
DOMINICAN REPULIC
COCOA ND COME DEVELPIMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2028-D0
Bank MiWlon and Staff Inouto
Stage of                 t!onth   No. of    DaYO In   Sp.ecollatitn      Performfona   Type of Y/      Staff
Proloct Cycl-              fYe_r   Persons    Fi*ld    Reorengnted _/  Rtina Sta tus  /   robl        Inout Cwlku)
ThROUCH APPRAtSAL
lJontificotion FAO/CP      91/S       6         29        d,t,f,ft,        -                  -              99"61
Identificatlon Bonk        0l/"       1         16        *                                   -              -
Preparntlor FAO/CP          06/80      8        20        b,dsg            -                  -              -
Preparation  ank           OS/80       1                                  -                                 -
Preapproioel                18/S1      8        12        *ob#c            -                  -              -
APPRAISAL THROUGH
BOARD APPROVAL                                                                                              # "
Appraisal                   11/80     8         12        *,e,d            -                  -              (80.09)
BOARD APPROVAL
THROUGH
EFFECTIVENESS
Supervision                 10/81      I        to        b                1                  f,P            6.79
Superviclon                 67/82      1         6        b                1                  F,P
PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATZON
Supervision 1               02/83      1         8        b                2                  M,F            2i1.29
Supervision 2               10/88     2         21        b,f              2                  M,F
Supervision 8               02/84      1         8        a                2                  MiT
Superviolon 4               09/84      1        1i        a                2                  M,F,T
Supervision 6               04/86     2         12        see              2                  M,T
Supervilon a               12/86      1        16        *                2                  Iif
Supervision 7               66/80      1         6        *                2                  M,F
Supervision 8               10/so      1         6        *                8                  M,F
Supervision 9               63/87     2         12        *,b              2                  M,F
MIssioon 4gri.
Ssetor    t.               10/87     4          5        b,b,d,h          -
Supervi ion 10              10/87      1         6        b                2                  I,F              -
Supervieion 11              06/88      1         5        b                2                  H
Supervision 12              11/88      1         1        b                S                  M
/ *a * agriculturist; b * economist; c a finanlol anslyst; d * tealoader; * a credit specioliOt3
It  onsultant; 0 a statistician assistant; h a eivil engineer.
2/ 1 a problem-free or minor problem; 2 a moderate problem; 8 a major problems
M a managerlol; F a financial; P a political; T a technical.
This mission redoeigned the projoet.



7io                                                         ,                               _        IORD 22972
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monte Cisti>                               Luperon                                                                                EXiSTING COCOA PRODUCING AREAS SRENOVATION)                     GOVERNMENT NURSERIES:
/onte 01st)                                              Puerto Plato                                               I  J COCOA AREAS AFFECTED BY HURRICANE DAVID                           COCOA
Pleo ll    M ON7T                                                                                                                     COCOA AREAS SEVERELY AFFECTED BY HURRICANE DAVID                    EXISTING NURSERIES
/ )~edo                        I           P_ U! RTq  PZ A   t                                Ptoyo               F   o w  J COCOA AREAS AFFECTED BY A TORNADO (JUNE 1979)                    TO BE INSTALLED
7      *  Gospor   Grande                            AND BY HURRICANE DAVID                            COFFEE
N'8 R oE TA%V<DE                                                                                     Rs        t          > 7} y'''.non dez )s,I COFFEE AREAS AFFECTED BY HURRICANE DAVID (RENOVATION)   ()   EXISTINGONURSERIES
( N        ~          J t^ri AXV                                                                      >o    ,,,,, ~> Sn   n  \                                                          TO B E INSTALLED
DoOon    0     -- .    doESPAt;4
=r r'- -%.-                        ( ESRA /t t                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
~~JDAJABOJ!Y  ~~~~~~~~~~~SANCX~?,
AGO    ~           Sntago-   MAJOR AIRPORTS
o-SA        2       SNDRIGUEZO                  So- n                           /,m a                                                                                                     OTHER AIRPORTS
Restou' % ., .  0                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORTS
Restourzaaon  rrtF             ]         SANrIAGO              p_KXt  \       t      v     f \ /           <      , ,                                                                     PRIVERS
r                                                                                                    Sw 9 3 4 ouas                                         . ; s A M A IVA  - - - -   P ROV INC E BOUNDARIES
d A I T I   j   2'____-x    _y                         meno                                                                                          -*- INTeRNATIONAL BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mno. .. NTRNAIOALBOUDAIE
-I A I T I
f   ELIAS PINA  s                N    >                    A
SAN JUAN                                ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Bonoo  '  ~IAE              "saonop                                           her,
Comendador;n                                                                                                                                       -        ,     MichBo,
5 A N y U A N ) 42 SMto~~~~~~~~~~~~~nza                                                               ,                               <  ''HA'O 0 - 
"de la MaguaPLATAnaoo'                                                                                                                                                                 aa
./ \-\ Baroh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ona
El Crc/do                                                                                                                                           I o
//   N ~ / ' ~ '   ~ N ' * ~   '~ S a n   'DSA N   NA   C   N A t L7                               i Su e y F       I N L
BAORUCO                                                      VIA    C-                                                               k/S       JL' OM       )O   AIAG     C/A
imani      'Snole
K~~~~~~~~~~~d  aols                                      Logmn                OCETt deV,mf
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DO                                       SaA                69
_N                           . Bar                                                                                                                                         EANM ChonA' N        ZU L
PBdBrnoles  e'                                                                                                                                                    Ut, D STATES OF AM4ERICA
PEDERNA IES 
CUBA          DCIIWANE
Oviedo                                                                                                                                                 MEXICO              anuY-.~...CT.IFUL
o    U       20       30       40       30   60zor,..                                          iTOELIZA0
GUATEMALA. '%~IAAU
o    o    o  ~0   to   to   to i       to d  o     to                 ~EL XEIA0O -  ICRAU
EILOMBTEAS
le                         7o'                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTARICA  VE UNEZUELA
____________________________________________PANiAMA COLOMBI[A'-,
APRIl 19O1



