Document of
The World Bank                             Co COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3379-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate: RD$ 1.00 = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA           Agricultural Bank
CB            Central Bank
CDF          Dominican Development Corporation
CEA           State Sugar Council
CEDOPEX      Export Promotion Center
CENSERI       Centers for Integrated Rural Services
CNA           National Agricultural Council
CODOCOOP      Dominican Confederation of Cooperatives
CORDE         State Enterprise Corporation
DGCP          Office of Price Control
ECRA          Community Enterprises of Agrarian Reform
EEC           European Economic Community
FDD           Dominican Development Foundation
FICOOP        Financial Cooperative Company
FIDE         Economic Development Investment Fund
FINAGRO      Agro-Industrial Financial Company
IAD          Agrarian Reform Institute
IDECOOP      Cooperative Development Institute
IICA          Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences
INDRHI       National Water Resources Institute
INESPRE      National Price Stabilization Institute
ODC           Community Development Office
ONAPLAN       National Planning Office
PIDAGRO       Integrated Agricultural Development Program
SEA           Secretariat of State for Agriculture
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ............................................              1
A.   The Agricultural Sector ..........................1
Agriculture in the Economy ....         ...................1
Main Sector Characteristics ......................             2
Main Policy Issues of the Sector ....          .............  3
Rural Employment .................................            4
Rural   Incomes   ....................................        5
B.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit    .......          5
The Banking System ...............................            5
Agricultural Credit ..............................            6
C.   Bank Role in Agriculture .........................             8
II.   THE SUBSECTOR, THE PROJECT AREAS AND INSTITUTIONS
PARTICIPATING IN THE PROJECT ........................             9
A.   The Subsector ....................................             9
Cocoa   ............................................          9
Coffee   ...........................................         10
B.   The Project Areas and Crop Growing Characteristics            10
Cocoa .10
Coffee .12
C.   Institutions Participating in the Project                     13
Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA)                   13
Coffee and Cocoa Commissions .14
Agricultural Bank (BA) .15
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Introduction .15
B. Brief Description .15
C. Detailed Features .16
On-farm Development .16
Processing Facilities .18
Nursery Development .18
Technical Assistance .20
Monitoring and Evaluation .20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Dominican Republic in November 1980. The mission consisted of Messrs. M.
Ballesteros, F. Miyanaga, and J. Pelissier.
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witnout World Bank authorization.



- 1L~ -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
D.    Project Cost  .....................................                20
E.    Financing ........................................                 22
F.    Procurement  ......................................                23
G.    Disbursement  .....................................                24
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................                  25
A.    Organization and Management  ......................                25
B.    Lending Policies and Procedures  ....             ..............   26
C.    Accounts and Audits  ..............................                27
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation and Progress Reporting..                  27
V.    PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES AND
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ....................................                 28
A.    Production .......................................                 28
B.    Markets and Prices  ...............................                28
Cocoa ............................................                 28
Coffee ...........................................                 29
C.    Producers'  Benefits and Financial Rates of Return                 29
D.    Project Cash Flow ................................                 31
VI.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ....              ..............   31
A.    Economic Benefits  ................................                31
B.    Economic Rate of Return ..........................                 32
C.    Project Risks  ....................................                33
D.    Environmental Impact .............................                 33
VII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    ......                33
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables
Tables No. 1  - Distribution of Land Suitable for Agriculture ...                    35
2 - Credit Trends and Main Economic and Financial
Indicators  ....................................               36
3  - Loan Portfolio of Commercial Banks ....              ..........    37
4 - Production and Export Statistics of Cocoa
and Coffee,  1970-79  ...........................              38
5 - Cash Flow of Coffee Commission (Coffee Year Ended
September 30, 1979)  ...........................               39
6 - Cash Flow of Cocoa Commission (Coffee Year Ended
September 30, 1979)  .........................                 40
7 - Investment Costs of On-farm Development
(Cost per Farm)  ...............................               41
8 - Investment Costs of Nursery Development and
Cocoa Processing Facilities  ...................               42



- :iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
9 -  Costs of Technical and Credit Services .... ......         43
10 -  Phasing of Investment ...........................          44
11 - Cost Benefit Analysis - Cocoa Rehabilitation
(2.3  ha)   ......................................       45
12 -  Cash Flow Cocoa Rehabilitation (2.3 ha) .... .....    46
13 -  Cost/Benefit Analysis - Cocoa Replanting (2.3 ha)          47
14 -  Cash Flow - Cocoa Replanting (2.3 ha) ....       .......   48
15 -  Cost/Benefit Analysis - Coffee Replanting (1.0 ha)    49
16 -  Cash Flow - Coffee Replanting (1.0 ha) .... ......         50
17 -  Farmgate Prices (Financial and Economic Prices)..          51
18 -  Project Cash Flow of BA .........................          52
19 -  Economic Analysis ...............................          53
20 - Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount
Rate   of   12.0%   .................................    54
ANNEX 2 - The Agricultural Bank (BA) ............................            55
Tables No. 1  - Classification of Loans of the Agricultural Bank
by  Loan  Amount   ................................      59
2 - Classification of Loans of the Agricultural Bank
by Size of Holding, 1978 ......................          60
3 - Agricultural Bank Lending by Status of Loans,
Category of Lending and Farm Size ....       .........   61
4  - Agricultural Bank Lending by Products ...        ........  62
5  - Balance Sheet of Agricultural Bank ....        ..........  63
6 - Income and Expenditure Statement of
Agricultural Bank .............................          64
ANNEX 3:  Documents Available in the Project File ....          ...........    65
MAP:   IBRD 15282 - Cocoa and Coffee Development Project






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Although the share of agriculture in GDP decreased from 30% in
1960-62 to about 18% in 1977-79, the sector's performance since 1968 has been
an important factor, in terms of increased output, exports and employment, for
the country's overall economic achievements. In export value, agricultural
products amounted to about 69% of total exports from all sectors for an annual
average for 1977/78, with sugar and derivatives, coffee, cacao, and tobacco as
the major commodities. According to the 1970 census, agriculture remains the
main employer in the country, accounting for about 40% of the total economic-
ally active population as against 11% by the industrial sector (mining,
manufacturing, construction and power generation). Rural-to-urban migration
is, however, explosive, as evidenced during the last 20 years by the fact that
urban population has been growing at an annual rate of 5.6%, as compared with
a rate of only 1% for rural population. The expectation is that, by 1982,
less than half the population will live in rural areas.
1.02      In terms of production, the growth of the agricultural sector can be
measured roughly in three basic periods:  1961-67, 1968-73, and 1974-79, when
estimated growths were 1.0%, 7.0%, and 1.1%, respectively. Most likely,
deterioration in the last period was principally due to the increase in
petroleum import costs, decrease in sugar and other commodity prices, and an
obvious lag of investments in the agricultural sector as compared to a more
lucrative industrial sector. Two more factors may have added to this recent
deterioration in growth: uncertainty associated with the series of agrarian
reform legislation promulgated in 1972, especially for the rice subsector, and
a severe drought in 1975 that lingered through 1976.
1.03      The most important of these adverse factors was the trend in the
country's international terms of trade, influenced by the decreasing sugar
export price (31.7% of total merchandise export value tor 1977/78), which
dampened prospects for earnings from agricultural exports. Though the 1976
collapse of the sugar market sent a severe shock through the economy, currrent
and future market prices of USJ30/kg to USg40/kg in end-1980 suggest some
recent improvement. Overall, the outlook on the world market is not good for
Dominican traditional exports when compared to the country's import needs
over the next three years. Even the internal terms of trade, which were
relatively favorable to agriculture in the 1969-73 period, shifted drastically
in favor of industry during the 1974-79 period. While prices of agricultural
products rose by about 30%, the prices of commercial production inputs increased
by about 90%, showing a marked deterioration in the economic input/output
relationship for farming.



-2-
Main Sector Characteristics
1.04      Most of the estimated 4.8 million ha of land suitable for agriculture
can be considered as being in farms, out of which 45% is in crops, 44% in
pasture, and 11% in tree crops and forest (Annex 1, Table 1). Though these
figures indicate only a limited potential for agricultural expansion, there is
considerable scope for increasing productivity of lands already under cultiva-
tion. Water resources are reasonably adequate in volume, with good average
rainfall but it is unevenly distributed so that supplementary irrigation is
required in many areas of the country. Forests cover an estimated 1.1 million
ha, 30% of which are suitable for commercial logging. As a measure to protect
the forests, intensive logging was prohibited in 1966. However, little has
been done to develop the consequent forestry potential, mainly because of lack
of adequate forestry development institutions and failure to enforce soil and
water resources conservation. A recent survey, carried out by SEA with USAID
assistance, has shown that erosion problems have reached critical proportions,
and that conservation measures must be implemented with utmost urgency.
1.05      Government outlays on the agricultural sector have increased
3.2 times since 1969 when calculated in 1970 prices. Investment expenditures
that accounted for only 40% of the total outlays to the sector in 1969-73
have increased up to 70% of total since 1976. Estimates indicate that invest-
ment in irrigation infrastructure accounted for about 36% in the latter period
as against 30% in the previous one, but agricultural output from irrigated
areas has not yet picked up momentum.
1.06      Irrigation has always been the most active subsector in agriculture.
About 160,000 ha, or about 3% of the agricultural land, are irrigated, and
there is a potential for development of some 100,000 ha in the long term for
the year 2,000 and beyond. Nearly 90% of the country's rice production is
irrigated. Irrigation, however, is plagued with a series of constraints that
are technical, legal, institutional and managerial, and that are well recog-
nized by the Government. Above all, the lack of management of water resources
continues to be the most serious handicap to overcome. Improvements may prove
difficult in the present political situation in the country, particularly
given the land tenure implication of irrigation development.
1.07      Among production factors, lack of agricultural credit is a major
problem.  The main obstacles to an adequate flow of funds to the sector are:
(a) the subsistence nature of the largest segment of the agricultural economy
involving high credit risks; (b) a complex land tenure situation; (c) an
inadequate pricing policy that discourages investment; and (d) low interest
rates on lending and savings deposits. Regarding lending institutions, a
substantial number of public and private entities, especially commercial
banks, are playing a growing role in extending agricultural credit (paras 1.27
and 1.28).



- 3 -
1.08      Nearly 80% of all farmers (i.e., some 250,000 out of 320,000) have
low levels of output and productivity, which, in turn, result in low incomes.
A characteristic of this group is their lack of bargaining power at the market
place. On the production inputs, such as fertilizers, insecticides and seeds,
small farmers on occasion are reported to pay abouc 20% more than larger
producers. The Government, through SEA, is making determined efforts to
improve the situation, going ahead with a program that comprises three basic
elements--formation of farmers' groups, construction of storage buildings for
production inputs and products, and provision of SEA supporting services in
order to form cooperative associations in rural conmunities over the entire
country.
1.09      Support services from both the public ane the private agricultural
sector constitute a basic requisite for the improvement and transfer of tech-
nology necessary to achieve the country's agricultural potential. Private
sector services in research and extension are directed mainly at specific
crops (i.e., sugarcane, tobacco) and are generally efficient, being small,
well organized and profit-oriented. In the public sector, these services
cover a much larger area, both spatially and technically, and are largely
concentrated on food crops and on a number of export crops, particularly rice,
coffee and cocoa.
1.10      Agroindustry is, outside sugarcane processing, the most recent and
impressive aspect of the country's agricultural development. About 140 firms
are operative in processing: (a) livestock products, including meat, dairy
and leather; (b) fruits and vegetables; (c) grains and oilseeds; (d) cocoa;
and (e) tobacco. Yet the constraints are still serious as the industry is
confronted with a limited and scattered agricultural production base, and
a definite, limited internal market. On the other hand, prospects are good
for external market outlets because, on the basis of its resource potential,
its climate, and geographical location, the Dominican Republic enjoys a
comparative advantage for production, processing and export of fresh and
processed fruit and vegetables and of tree and root crops.
Main Policy Issues of the Sector
1.11      The issues of agricultural price policy and of agrarian reform
have a direct bearing on the efficiency of implementation of existing projects
in the Dominican Republic, as well as on clearing policy problem areas which
would inhibit smooth preparation, appraisal and implementation of future
projects. The depressive effect of faulty price policy on agricultural produc-
tion and development is deep and widespread. Much of the public investment in
agriculture in the Dominican Republic has been in irrigation projects, and
action in respect of agrarian reform is crucial for ensuring the efficient and
equitable use of the lands brought under irrigation, as has been demonstrated
in the case of the Yaque del Norte project financed by the IDB and the Bank.



-4-
1.12      Price Policy.  Agricultural price policy is set by the President's
office, which decides on farmgate prices to encourage agricultural production
and on retail prices to restrain inflation. The Office of Price Control has
been partially successful in policing and controlling retail prices. The
National Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE) is responsible for a farm
price support system and the direct importation (or licensing for importation)
of all food and animal feed products, with the overall purpose of stabilizing
food prices. However, it is difficult for the agency to launch an effective
price support program because of the lack of grain storage and cold storage
facilities in some areas and of the poor location or insufficient capacity of
such facilities in other areas. In the present situation, however, there is
apparently no firm commitment by Government to follow a single course of price
policy; rather it attempts to satisfy all interests at the same time. Such a
lack of policy continues to cause ad hoc decision-making, which, in turn, is
often contrary to the long-term development of the agricultural sector, as
well as the whole economy.
1.13      Agrarian Reform.  Agrarian reform, which was initiated in the 1920s,
has made impressive headway as not less than about 360,000 ha have been
assigned to some 58,000 rural families. Yet, the prevailing land distribution
remains uneven. Although precise information is unavailable, current estimates
are that'while 88% of the total number of farms are small in size (up to 10 ha),
they cover only 20% of the total agricultural land, with the remaining 12% of
medium and large farms occupying 80% of the total arable land. All branches
of Government---Legislative, Executive, Judiciary--discussed recently a set of
new land tenure laws. Yet, those discussions, which have now been deferred,
were directed at areas under irrigation projects financed by public investments,
while land under rainfed agriculture was not considered. There are other
alternatives to a legal process of expropriation, for which the distribution
of some 200,000 ha still in the hands of Government might be the first step.
Rural Employment
1.14      Information is scarce on employment in the Dominican Republic;
however, some rough estimates of unemployment in the rural areas were made
in 1976 on the basis of a limited survey of farmers carried out by SEA.
Results from that study indicate that the rural labor force consists of
about 800,000 persons. Working from labor requirements per crop, the total
effective demand for labor was estimated at about 400,000 man-years in the
agricultural sector. If these gross figures are representative, they indicate
a substantial unemployment and under-employment problem in the rural areas, at
least in the aggregate. Though there is virtually no information on regional
unemployment, traditional areas of agricultural production such as the Cibao
valley in the north appear to have a greater number of willing workers
unemployed than the areas more recently introduced to intensive agricultural
activity such as the Nizao area in the south, where the boom in exports of
fruits and vegetables and the increased domestic demand for these items due to
increasing incomes have resulted in practically full employment of the farm
labor force.



- 5 -
1.15      The seasonality of agricultural labor demand is particularly
pronounced in the country due to basic rainfed agriculture characteristics
and to the high amounts of seasonal labor required for the major export crops
of sugarcane, coffee, cacao and tobacco. For example, sugarcane harvesting
begins about December and continues until about June; the sugar industry alone
employs about 140,000 people, with about 40,000 to 60,000 being temporary
workers. The coffee and cacao harvesting seasons overlap and complement work
in the cane fields to provide a virtual stream of work for those who are
willing to move about the country and follow the harvest cycles; however, few
agricultural workers can afford to do this as they must also attend to their
small farms and garden plots. The peak rural employment months are November
through February.
Rural Incomes
1.16      According to the first national survey of household income and
expenditure carried out in 1976/77, monthly income per rural family is only
US$200, about 55% of urban incomes. The distribution of income in the rural
sector shows that the poorest group, i.e., under US$30 per capita per month,
comprises nearly 70% of the rural population and accounts for only about
40% of total rural income. Meanwhile, the highest income group, i.e., over
US$100 per capita per month, comprises only 3% of the rural population and
accounts for 18% of rural income. On the regional level, income is distri-
buted unevenly; the poorest areas tend to be concentrated in the western
part of the country, i.e., in the areas close to the border with Haiti.
B. The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
The Banking System
1.17      The monetary and credit policies governing the Dominican banking
system are established by the Monetary Board (MB), which is composed of top-
level Government officials, including the Governor of the Central Bank (CB).
MB is authorized to determine the level of interest rates for both loans and
deposits, as well as legal reserve requirements. The maximum interest rate
on loans has been 12% per annum since 1919, a figure that is below historical
and current inflation rates of 17% in 1979 and 15% in 1980. Deposit rates
fixed by MB are: (a) 4% on savings deposits of commercial banks; (b) 5% on
fixed-term deposits; and (c) 8.5% on certificates issued by finance companies
and mortgage banks.
1.18      MB imposes a legal reserve requirement of 50% on demand deposits
and 30% on fixed-term savings deposits. However, in order to stimulate
development, incentives are provided for loans to selected sectors. For
example, legal reserves can be reduced to 25% and 15% in the case of loans to
productive sectors (agriculture, mining, industry and exports). In addition,
any increases in the agricultural (crop) and livestock portfolio after 1974
are deductible for the calculation of base to determine the level of legal
reserves required.



1.19       CB implements monetary and credit policies of MB and controls foreign
exchange transactions. In addition to performing the normal regulatory tasks,
CB provides rediscounting facilities to stimulate productive operations for a
period of less than one year at 3.5% to 4.5%. Furthermore, CB created the
Economic Development Investment Fund (FIDE) in 1966 to spur capital investment
in key productive sectors, such as agriculture, livestock, mining, and industry.
The bulk (about 95%) of FIDE's financing is medium and long term and is
channeled through commercial banks, financial companies and development
institutions. FIDE increased its lending rate on loans to the industrial
sector in 1980, from 5.5% to 10% to intermediary institutions and from 9% to
14% to the final borrowers, and is reviewing its lending rate for the agricul-
tural sector. FIDE's low lending rate is possible because it receives long-
term resources from CB (49% in 1979), the Government, IDB, USAID, and other
development institutions at the very low rate of around 2% to 3%.
1.20      The Dominican banking system consists of 12 commercial banks,
including: (a) the Dominican Republic Reserve Bank, an autonomous state enter-
prise operating as a fiscal agency of the Government, as well as a commercial
bank; (b) the Workers' Bank, an official institution, with mixed capital from
official and private sources; and (c) 10 private banks, including five foreign-
owned banks. Collectively, these institutions have 106 branch offices and
extend loans to relatively larger borrowers. Although the ceiling on interest
rates is fixed at 12%, the effective cost to the borrowers is in the range of
16% to 18%, due to loan fees, commissions, and other charges which are added
to the interest rate along with compensating balance requirements.
Agricultural Credit
1.21      Despite a considerable increase (91%) in institutional agricultural
credit in real terms over the period 1969-79, only a limited proportion of
the 320,000 Dominican farmers had access to it. According to a sample survey
conducted by SEA in 1975, about 27% of Dominican farmers were estimated to
have had access to agricultural credit, including non-institutional credit,
but small-scale farmers had fewer opportunities than large ones (22% of
farmers owning less than 5 ha and 40% of farmers with more than 32 ha).
Institutional credit to agriculture as a percentage of total credit fell from
14.7% in 1968 to 10.7% in 1979 (Annex 1, Table 2) and the growth of lending
in the agricultural sector has been slower than that in other sectors.
1.22      The SEA survey also shows that about 45% of credit came from non-
institutional sources, such as moneylenders, merchants, intermediaries, pro-
cessing factories and exporters. These sources extend credit mainly in kind
in the form of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and transport and equipment
services and also act as middlemen in marketing crops. No details are avail-
able on the lending terms and conditions or the volume of these loans but
interest rates are thought to be in the range of 2% to 5% per month.
1.23      The sources of the US$208 million institutional agricultural credit
extended during 1979 were both private and public organizations: (a) the
Agricultural Bank (BA), 61% of the amount available in 1979; (b) the commercial
banks, 34%; and (c) finance companies and development institutions, 5%. The
trend of institutional agricultural credit during the period 1968-79 indicates



-7 -
a close correlation to agricultural output and it is likewise characterized
by two distinct growth periods. In the period 1968-75, the average rate of
increase of agricultural credit in real terms was 7.7% in contrast with an
average growth rate in 1975-79 of 3.2%. An important structural change in the
investment pattern is revealed in the increase of long-term credit from 5% to
36% of total agricultural credit during the period.
1.24      Agricultural Bank (BA).  BA operates through a network of 70 branch
and sub-branch offices throughout the country. BA's lending volume totaled
US$127 million in 1979, about 25% of which was medium and long term, the bulk
going to small- and medium-size farms: 81% of the loans and 40% of the loan
amount went to farms below 6 ha in size. Interest rates are 9% for loans up
to US$2,000 and 11% for those above that amount, in addition to a commission
(details in Annex 2). BA does not accept deposit services and relies heavily
on official agencies, including foreign donors, for its loanable funds. BA
is described in detail in Annex 2.
1.25      Commercial Banks.  In 1979, commercial banks extended US$71 million
in loans to the agriculture sector, representing 34% of the amount borrowed
by that sector from institutional sources. Their contribution to the sector
is important as they operate through a vast network of 106 branch offices
and have been steadily increasing the amount lent. However, agriculture's
share of total portfolio has been low, around 8% (Annex 1, Table 3).  Loans
extended by commercial banks are generally short term, except for those
refinanced by FIDE, and range in size between US$50,000 and US$400,000. These
loans are usually guaranteed by mortgages, which limits the number of small-
scale farmers who can meet the requirement.
1.26      Commercial banks' major sources of funds for agricultural credit are
(a) deposits (around 80%); (b) CB's rediscounting facilities; and (c) FIDE's
long-term investment funds. Although the liquidity position of commercial
banks has been constrained recently by the slowdown in private sector deposits
and by a stricter enforcement of legal reserve requirements, lending to the
sector has not suffered because the Government designated agriculture as a
priority productive sector for investment and provided several incentives to
encourage lending to it. Incentives related to legal reserve requirements
were mentioned above (para 1.18). In addition, a guarantee reserve fund was
established in September 1979 within FIDE to encourage financial intermedia-
ries to lend to small-scale agricultural and iivestock producers and to
agroindustry and it is expected to have a positive impact. Most commercial
bank credit goes to larger farms for livestock (37% in 1979) and for export
crops, including marketing (50% in 1979).
1.27      Finance Companies.  The nine finance companies established under the
same law that established FIDE to promote private investment are active lenders
to the sector. The most important companies are the Agro-industrial Financial
Company (FINAGRO) S.A., Financiera Dominicana S.A., and Financial Cooperative
Company. FINAGRO, for example, had a loan portfolio of US$26 million as of
December 31, 1979, 28% of which was for livestock, 24% for crops, and 10% for
agroindustry. The bulk of the finance companies' lending is medium term and
long term at 12% interest rate, plus commissions and other charges that may



raise the effective rate to 14% to 15%. Like commercial banks, they usually
require mortgages for collateral, which also limits the funds available to
small-scale farmers. Their lending in the agricultural sector has more than
doubled during the last three years, going from US$3.1 million to US$7.1
million, or about 3.5% of total institutional agricultural lending.
1.28      Development Institutions.  There are also a few development insti-
tutions in the Dominican agricultural credit system that are active in the
promotion of rural and agricultural development. Their funds are supplied by
foreign and international agencies, the Government and private sources, and
their share of the total institutional agricultural lending was about 2.4%
in 1979. Development institutions include the following: (a) the Dominican
Development Foundation (FDD), established by the private sector to promote
the enterpreneurial initiative and technical skills of the rural poor and to
encourage the transformation of small-scale low-income farmers into viable
commercial units; (b) the Community Development Office (ODC), established by
the Government and USAID to develop rural community organizations that have
no access to credit; and (c) the Cooperative Development Institute (IDECOOP),
established and financed by the Government and USAID to promote the formation
of cooperatives. These three institutions assist poor farmers in developing
their creditworthiness and in forming groups for institutional credit. They
charge 6% to 8% interest rate, plus 2% commission.
1.29      The Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA) and the Agrarian
Reform Institute (IAD). SEA and IAD promote technical assistance and credit
extension to marginal farmers and agrarian reform beneficiaries not qualified
for institutional credits. Their resources are provided by USAID and admin-
istered by BA, which holds them in a separate account although it applies the
same lending terms and conditions to them as on its own portfolio. The cumula-
tive outstanding balance on these accounts as of December 31, 1979 was US$24
million.
C. Bank Role in Agriculture
1.30      Bank involvement in the agricultural sector has been aimed at
improvement of agricultural output and better land distribution. The Bank
group has to date financed a livestock development project, two irrigation
projects and a sugar rehabilitation project in this sector. The livestock
development project, as indicated in the Project Performance Audit Report
(May 1978), contributed considerably to increases in dairy and beef produc-
tion and in livestock productivity, though the latter fell short of expecta-
tions. The first of the two irrigation projects, Yaque del Norte, cofinanced
with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), was approved by IDA in 1973
and aims at increasing food crops and, in part, at settling farm workers on
land by providing irrigation and drainage to approximately 23,000 ha. The
project has suffered considerable delays in recruiting consultants, in acquir-
ing rights of way and in carrying out civil works and land redistribution
and farm consolidation in the project area. The Bank loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1981, by which time the main drainage canal would



be completed to benefit some 3,000 ha of irrigated land, and the main and
secondary irrigation canals would be completed for an area serving 1,700 ha.
The remaining works are expected to be carried out by INDRHI with IDB and
local funds. The second irrigation project, Nizao, which became effective in
January 1980 aims at increasing agricultural productivity; increasing agri-
cultural output in food crops, mainly fruit and vegetables, for export; and
improving the standard of living of some 3,200 families. The project is being
implemented at a slower pace than expected, due mainly to the serious finan-
cial stringency of the Government that has affected the availability of the
required counterpart funding. The sugar rehabilitation loan, approved by the
Bank in September 1979, is not yet effective. The project aims at improving
the State Sugar Council's (CEA) operational efficiency and financial situa-
tion, mainly through (a) rehabilitation of six of CEA's 12 sugar factories
and of their transport systems, and (b) a management and organization
improvement program.
II. THE SUBSECTOR, THE PROJECT AREAS AND INSTITUTIONS
PARTICIPATING IN THE PROJECT
A. The Subsector
Cocoa
2.01      The Dominican Republic ranks among the major producers of cocoa.
Production in recent years has averaged 34,000 tons and exports, 25,000 tons
per year; the value of cocoa exports in 1979 was US$72 million (Annex 1,
Table 4). Cocoa is grown throughout most of the country, predominantly in
small holdings. A sample survey carried out by SEA in April 1980 indicated
that cocoa is currently grown on about 115,000 ha by some 35,000 farmers,
that 84% of the cocoa farms have less than 5 ha in cocoa, and that only 6%
have more than 10 ha.
2.02      Cocoa grown in the Dominican Republic is the ordinary Forestero
(Amelonado) type, with the beans known in the export market under the name
of Sanchez. Most plantations are old and poorly maintained. Yields average
about 290 kg/ha and indicate low levels of technology. Production was
seriously affected by the two hurricanes of September 1979.
2.03      Cocoa beans are dried without fermentation after removal from the
pod, which gives a product of inferior quality that can be used only for the
manufacture of cocoa butter. Dried beans command lower prices than fermented
beans. Exportation of fermented beans started on a small pilot scale in 1977,
but there is currently no quality standard and no premium for quality. The
major exporting firms deal with cocoa, as well as coffee, and five of them
account for almost 95% of cocoa bean exports. Exporters buy the beans
directly from larger farmers, from intermediaries, and, increasingly, from
small grower associations (para 5.04). No unusual deficiencies are apparent
in the internal marketing system, and improvements in processing, which are
addressed in the project (paras 3.11 and 3.12) rather than just marketing,
hold the key to increased farmers' incomes.



- 10 -
Coffee
2.04      Coffee exports valued at US$158 million represented 18% of the value
of commodity exports in 1979. The crop occupies some 150,000 ha and is grown
on 100,000 farms, or 30% of the country's farm units. Most producers are
smallholders: about 95% of the coffee farms are of 6 ha or less and occupy
70% of the total coffee area. Average 1977-79 output was about 50,000 tons.
2.05      Much of the coffee is grown in hilly locations, with over three-
quarters of the area located above 300 m in elevation. Nearly two-thirds of
the production comes from the Cibao area, especially from the northern coastal
range; the next most important region is the southern slope of the central
range and the third is the Baoruco range in the southwest. The traditional
Arabica type dominates production, but recently new types of Arabica have been
introduced, especially Caturra, a medium dwarf, that is earlier and more
productive.
2.06      Coffee cherries are processed by the wet method except in the
Barahona area where the dry method is used, giving lower quality beans. There
is no inventory of available processing facilities, but a large number are in
poor condition or have been abandoned. The larger plants, which process
coffee for both export and for local consumption, are operated by the main
exporting firms. Out of a total of 34 such plants, 20 operate in the Cibao
region and 12-in the South Central region.
2.07      During the last decade, the Government has been promoting the
rehabilitation and renovation of coffee plantings, a program benefiting about
16% of the total coffee area and one that has had a positive impact on pro-
ductivity. The coffee industry was also severely affected by the two hurri-
canes mentioned earlier. The SEA has estimated that some 10,800 ha were
severely damaged, and 48,600 ha were partially damaged. The areas affected
were primarily in the South Central Zone (San Cristobal, Peravia, Azua).
Short-term assistance was received from the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) for an emergency coffee rehabilitation project. The loan
of US$14 million, which provided credit and technical assistance to farmers
for such activities as removing fallen trees and fertilization, has been
entirely disbursed.
B. The Project Areas and Crop Growing Characteristics
Cocoa
2.08      Location, Climate and Soils.  The project area covers all the main
growing regions of the country, with special focus on the zone affected by
hurricane and tornadoes. Cocoa is grown in different parts of the country,
between latitudes 180 and 20°N (close to the limit for cocoa), primarily
in the humid areas of the North, Northeast, the East, North Central and the
Central regions (Map 15282) in flat to sloping land of up to 300 m elevation.
The main cocoa zone is in the Cibao (with San Francisco de Macoris as the main
center), which contains some 59% of the total cocoa area.



- 11 -
2.09      Rainfall ranges between 1,000 and 2,500 mm, the lower range being
considered marginal and the upper range as the maximum tolerated by cocoa;
these limits are not absolute, however, as the rain distribution, soil charac-
teristics and topography may compensate for an excess or deficit of rain.
The data from four stations in the main cocoa growing zones show averages
from 1,185 to 1,920 mm.  The relatively dry winter months account for the low
incidence of disease. The mean annual temperature ranges between 25.3 and
26.70C.
2.10      The soils of the cocoa zone vary, but generally show good perme-
ability and adequate to good depth. Cocoa is grown in flat alluvial or
colluvial land and on the lower slopes of the mountain ranges under favorable
ecological conditions. The softer topography accounts for the fact that
communications are better in the cocoa zones than they are in the coffee
zones (para 2.17).
2.11      The Cibao and Yamasa regions were affected by hurricane David in
1979, and shortly before the storm, the Cocoa zone east of San Francisco
de Macoris was affected by tornadoes. It is estimated that 5,600 ha were
severely damaged and 30,000 ha partially affected (Map IBRD 15282).
2.12      Cocoa Growing.  Traditional cocoa plantings consist of mixes of
amelonado and trinitario varieties.  Many plantations are old, with a good
number being more than 35 years, the age at which production begins to decline.
Traditional plantations usually have an inadequate plant population and excess-
ive shade, the latter being a result of the failure to prune the shade trees
(Erythrina), which grow and multiply out of control.  Also, there are often
voids in the cocoa stands, and the absence of self-shading in the empty areas
is a major cause of unbalanced nutrition, weed proliferation, and attacks by
insects (capsids and thrips).
2.13      The main disease affecting cocoa in the country is black pod caused
by Phytophytora palmivora. This disease, however, results in only limited
damage and usually the plantations do not require treatment. Another pest is
the woodpecker, which attacks the ripe pods which become exposed to fungus
attacks; damage, however, is not extensive. The Cocoa Department conducts
bird extermination campaigns with air rifles. Occasional attacks of the pods
by rats are controlled by poisoned baits. Traditional growers do not usually
practice pruning or fertilization. After picking (about three times per year)
the beans are removed from the pods manually and are not fermented.
2.14      Experience with Cocoa Replanting.  In 1962, SEA initiated a program
of cocoa replanting with hybrids secured from Puerto Rico through the American
Cocoa Institute. An experiment station with training center was established
at Mata Larga near San Francisco de Macoris. Seed orchards were established
to grow imported clones, and nurseries were established to supply growers with
hybrids of those clones. The replanting programs received support from USAID
for nursery establishment and personnel training; from the Inter-American
Institute of Agricultural Sciences (IICA) for technical assistance; and
from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) for quality improvement.
Up to 1979, some 18,870 ha had been replanted, either totally or partially.
The experience has shown that replanted fields of progressive farmers produce



- 12 -
over 1,400 kg/ha of dry beans, starting in the sixth year. These relatively
high yields are facilitated by the favorable climate and the absence of major
pests.
Coffee
2.15      Location, Climate and Soils.  The project area includes the coffee
growing sections that were most affected by hurricane David in 1979 (Bani,
San Cristobal, Azua and San Jose de Ocoa, Map IBRD 15282) located in the
Central Region. The area includes about one-third of the total coffee area
of the country, and the same proportion of coffee farms.
2.16      The area embraces the slopes of the Cordillera Central in the
provinces of San Cristobal, Peravia and Azua and is well suited to Arabica
coffee. The mean annual temperature varies between 150 and 270C, depending on
elevation, while rainfall averages between 750 and 1,600 mm and occurs mostly
in the summer (April to November). The relatively dry winter accounts for
the low incidence of disease. From the ecological standpoint, the area is
classified subtropical humid forest to subtropical high humid forest. Most
of the soils belong to land capability class VII, corresponding to steep
slopes and limited depth. They are subject to erosion if not properly managed.
Coffee is grown at elevations above 100 m, but most commonly above 300 m.
Arabica coffee gives best results at elevations between 500 and 1,400 m, and
it can be found as high as 2,000 m.
2.17      Communications are made difficult by the rough terrain.  Access to
the villages is asuL-ed by secondary roads, miaintained with funds provided by
the Coffee Commission (para 2.27), and the farms scattered throughout the area
are linked to villages by mule paths.
2.18      Coffee Growing.  Traditional coffee growing is characterized by low
levels of technology and low productivity. The traditional variety, known as
Tipica, is relatively tall and slender (3 m), which makes it susceptible to
hurricanes, and has a low production potential. Plantations are generally
old, most of them over 40 years, with a varying plant density, no planting
pattern, and often excessive shade. Traditionally, the growers have produced
their own plants from selected seed, using plastic bags and soil that may be
of poor quality, and the lack of care results in poorly shaped plants and
distorted roots. The excess shade occurs because it is difficult to prune
the tall Erythrina trees. The use of fertilizers and pesticides is largely
limited to those plantations which receive agricultural credit (12% of the
coffee farmers in 1978).
2.19      Cultural practices are limited to weed control and occasional
fertilization. Young trees are not shaped by pruning and production pruning
is limited to clearing branches when the plantation is too thick. There are
no serious pests -- only a minor incidence of the leaf mining caterpillar
(Leucoptera Caffeina) and of the berry spot disease (Cercospora caffeicola).
Picking is usually selective, limited to berries as they ripen, meaning
usually three pickings per season. The berries are pulped the same day by
mechanical depulpers and then fermented, washed and sun-dried. The practice



- 13 -
of individual picking and of wet processing accounts for the high quality of
the crop. Yields of dry parchment have been averaging about 300 kg/ha.
Current yields in the project area, however, dropped to some 90 kg/ha following
the hurricanes of 1979.
2.20      Experience with Coffee Replanting.  In the last 10 years, coffee
growers and the Coffee Department of SEA have acquired a good deal of expe-
rience with coffee replanting, and the experimental work at the La Cumbre
station in the north has shown the superior performance of the Caturra
variety, as shown by the following results:
Variety            Spacing (meters)          Parchment Yields (kg/ha)
Bourbon                1 x 2                        2,000
Caturra                1 x 1.3                      3,220
Mundo Nuevo            1 x 2                        2,790
Tipica                 1 x 2                        1,288
2.21      Caturra is a short and sturdy type, which allows high plant density,
good resistance to hurricanes, and ease of pesticide treatments. Quality is
the same as Tipica, but production after planting is earlier than with Tipica.
The advantage of higher yields from growing Caturra in direct sunlight has
been demonstrated in trials at the La Cumbre experimental station. However,
cultivation under direct sunlight is not advised because some degree of shade
provides better protection against erosion and reduces considerably fertilizer
requirements.
2.22      Since the start of replanting programs in the early 1970s, a number
of growers have switched to Caturra, either on entire plots or in individual
replacement plantings in stands of Tipica. The average yields of replantings
by progressive farmers are estimated at 1,400 kg of dry parchment/ha. This
superior performance of Caturra plantings achieved by a number of growers has
created a high demand for Caturra plants from neighboring farmers and the
Coffee Department has assisted plant production by establishing nurseries.
It has also been providing technical assistance to growers, and BA has been
financing replanting programs.
C. Institutions Participating in the Project
Secretariat of State for Agriculture (SEA)
2.23      SEA is the principal central organization dealing with the agricul-
tural sector. In establishing agricultural policy, SEA is assisted by a
number of consultative groups, including the National Agricultural Council
(CNA) and a number of Regional Councils. CNA is headed by an Executive Board,
whose members include the heads of each of the autonomous agencies in the
sector, and is responsible for the coordination and integration of sectorial
activities and for sectorial budgeting. The Regional Councils include, in



- 14 -
addition to public officials in the region, representatives of the private
sector selected from among agricultural producers by the farmer associations.
The execution of agricultural programs is the responsibility of regional
directors, who represent the Secretary.
2.24      SEA has seven undersecretariats (Planning; Production; Research,
Extension and Training; Administration; Natural Resources; Rural Development;
and Animal Husbandry). The Planning Under-secretariat includes a Department
of External Resources in charge of channeling outside funds to the sector and
assuring liaison with the corresponding agencies. The Production Under-
secretariat includes the Cocoa Department and the Coffee Department.
2.25      The Cocoa Department is in charge of cocoa development and improve-
ment. It includes divisions for production, research, marketing and adminis-
tration.  The supervision of cocoa programs in the field is under the respon-
sibility of two inter-regional offices with headquarters at San Francisco de
Macoris and El Seybo. The main functions of these offices are to support
production, marketing and quality improvement programs; provide technical
assistance to growers; and promote farmer associations. The department has
66 professionals, half of them directly engaged in field work, for an overall
ratio of about one agent per 1,000 farmers.
2.26      The Coffee Department is organized along similar lines.  It has
two interregional offices located in Santiago in the north and in Bani in
the south. The main activities consist of technical assistance; the produc-
tion and supply of coffee plants; the promotion of coffee grower associations;
and the improvement of productivity, quality, and marketing. The department
employs a staff of 382 of whom 119 are professionals and 103 are engaged in
field work. As in the case of cocoa, average extension density averages about
one agent per 1,000 farmers.
Coffee and Cocoa Commissions
2.27      The Coffee Commission was created by Decree 1621 in January 1976
to improve coffee production and marketing as well as to raise the living
standard of coffee producers. The Commission, consisting of representatives
of SEA, producers, industry, and exporters of coffee, is chaired by the
Secretary of Agriculture and has a small office for its secretariat in SEA.
Its major functions are to: (a) advise SEA on development policy in the
coffee subsector; and (b) administer the funds collected from a levy on
coffee exports. Exporters' contribution to the Commission was set by Decree
117 of 1978 at US$0.05 to US$0.06 per kilogram of coffee beans exported and
proceeds amounted to US$1.6 million for the coffee year ended September 30,
1979. The contributions were increased to US$0.08 to US$0.09 per kilogram
in November 1980. How funds are used is determined by the Commission but
activities must directly benefit the coffee sector, such as feeder road
construction in the coffee growing areas and research and trials on coffee
production; occasionally, some operating expenses of the Coffee Department
are also covered (Annex 1, Table 5).
2.28      The Cocoa Commission was created under Decree 2280 in August 1976
along the same lines as the Coffee Commission. It had a revenue of US$1.3
million for the cocoa year ended September 30, 1979. Its use of funds is
summarized in Annex 1, Table 6.



- 15 -
Agricultural Bank (BA)
2.29      BA is described briefly in paragraph 1.24 and in more detail in
Annex 2.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      Following the extensive damage in 1979 by hurricanes David and
Frederick, the Government requested Bank assistance for the rehabilitation
and replanting of cocoa and coffee farms. SEA set up a project preparation
unit to identify and prepare the project with assistance from FAO/CP missions,
which visited the country in January-February and in May 1980. Following a
pre-appraisal mission in August, the project was appraised in November 1980.
3.02      The project would seek to improve productivity and incomes of small-
scale cocoa and coffee producers (para 4.10) and to increase production and
export of these commodities. These objectives would be achieved by providing
farmers with technical assistance through SEA and credit through BA to finance
on-farm development plans. The scale of the proposed project is modest in
relation to the expected returns (Chapters V and VI) and to the scope for
cocoa and coffee replanting in the country. The scale proposed reflects
primarily a judgment on the pace of expansion of the required technical staff
considered feasible and consistent with continued standards of satisfactory
performance (para 3.16). Should implementation of the proposed project
proceed as expeditiously and successfully as anticipated, a second-phase
project would be a distinct possibility.
B. Brief Description
3.03      The project would finance, over a two-year commitment period and
four-year disbursement period, the following main activities:
(a) rehabilitation of about 4,600 ha of cocoa plantings distributed
among some 2,000 farms;
(b)  replanting of about 6,400 ha of cocoa plantings among some 2,800
farms;
(c) replanting of about 5,000 ha of coffee plantings distributed
among some 5,000 farms;
(d) provision of about 1,000 fermentation boxes and 300 sun-drying
facilities to cocoa farmers and about 4,000 depulping machines
to coffee farmers;
(e) establishment of 22 cocoa nurseries and 52 coffee nurseries by
SEA and another 520 private coffee nurseries;



- 16 -
(f) reinforcement of the support services of SEA and BA; and
(g) monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
C. Detailed Features
On-farm Development
3.04      Cocoa Rehabilitation.  Many cocoa farms can be profitably rehabi-
litated because either the trees are still young enough to have the potential
for improved production, or they were damaged only moderately by the 1979
hurricane. It is estimated that an average of 160 trees/ha would be planted
to replace fallen trees or fill existing voids. The new plants would be
hybrid material supplied by the nurseries. During the first year, 580 kg/ha
of fertilizer such as 12-24-12 (percent of nitrogen, phosphate and potash,
respectively) would be applied, and 300 kg/ha in subsequent years. Yearly
maintenance would include pruning, weeding and shade control. Yields of the
rehabilitated plantations would be expected to increase to 560 kg/ha, starting
in year 4, from 290 kg/ha without rehabilitation.
3.05      Cocoa Replanting.  Plantations too old to be worth rehabilitating
or too severely affected by the hurricanes or tornadoes in 1979 would be
replanted, using the "Turrialba" system. The system consists of using the
old cocoa trees as shade for the new hybrid plants. During the first year,
the shade trees are pruned, up to 35% of the old poorly productive trees are
cut, and new trees are planted. The remaining old trees are pruned back,
which enables them to maintain and even improve their production until they
are cut down during the third year. The system allows growers to continue
to obtain some income and thus provides a good incentive to replant.
3.06      Plant spacing would be 3 x 3 m, giving a density of about 1,100
trees per ha. This density allows for the rapid establishment of a canopy
favorable to pest resistance. The hybrid plants are fast growing and pro-
ductive.  The Cocoa Department would supply a pre-selected blend of hybrids
in order to minimize sterility from auto-incompatibility and to avoid exces-
sive uniformity which could adversely affect pollination and increase the
danger of pest damage. The extension service would promote the replacement
of Erythrina by Gliricidia for shade; the latter is easy to reproduce and to
prune. Maintenance would include fertilization, pruning, weeding, shade
control, and very occasional pest control (rats, woodpeckers). A compound
fertilizer such as 12-8-14 would be applied at rates increasing from 250
kg/ha the first year to 500 kg/ha the third and following years. Fertilizer
requirements are not well known at present and, while provisions for these
amounts would be included in financing, consultants engaged under the
project would help initiate field tests to establish more accurately optimum
fertilizer use (para 3.18).
3.07      The following average yields, which represent a conservative
estimate, would be expected:



- 17 -
Without Project                   With Project
---------------Years------------------
1    2    3    4    5    6    7-35
-----------------------kg/ha dry bean-------------------
From old trees             200            200  350  200
From new trees            _                         110  430  680  870   9Q0
Total:               200            200  350  310  430  680  870   900
3.08      Coffee Replanting.  Old tipica plantations which were affected
by the hurricanes would be renovated by planting Caturra seedlings under the
old tipica trees. The technique has already been applied successfully in
the field. Staking and holing would be on the contour. Old plants that
would interfere would be eliminated or pruned severely, and the remaining
old plants would keep yielding a crop while the young Caturra plants developed,
thus minimizing losses of income during the renovation period. All the old
plants would be removed after two years. Planting on the contour would be at
a spacing interval of 1.5 x 1.75 m, giving a plant population of 3,810 per ha.
For shade, the Erythrina would be gradually replaced by Guama (Inea vera),
which is not as tall and can be more easily pruned for shade control.
3.09      Coffee extension workers would promote good weed control, pruning
(initial shaping followed by periodic production pruning), pest control and
fertilization. When needed, leaf miner infestations would be treated with
lindane or a similar product; cercosporas would be treated with a fungicide
of the thimet type. The Coffee Department provides spraying services to
growers at cost. There is no research information available on fertilizer
requirements, but experience in the country and elsewhere shows the need for
fertilization, especially for the productive Caturra type. Following recom-
mendations of the Coffee Department, growers would use a compound fertilizer
(12-8-14) at the following rates per ha: 720 kg the first year, 990 kg the
second year, and 1,440 kg the third and following years. As in the case of
cocoa, however, consultants engaged under the project (para 3.18) would help
initiate field tests to verify fertilizer requirements. Fertilizers and
pesticides are available from commercial firms operating in the project area,
from the CENSERIS (sale centers for agricultural supplies, operated by SEA),
or through grower associations.
3.10      Average yields of replanted farms would gradually increase from the
90 kg/ha of parchment currently obtained in traditional plantations after the
1979 hurricane and level off at some 900 kg/ha on the fifth year. Yields
would develop as follows:



- 18 -
Without Project               With Project
------------Years-----------
1     2     3      4    5-35
--------------------kg/ha-----------------------
From old trees             90             80     80
From new trees                                   40    360   800   900
Total                90             80    120    360   800   900
Processing Facilities
3.11      Cocoa Bean Fermentation.  The Cocoa Department has successfully
experimented with bean fermentation; the program was supervised for several
years by an FAO specialist. Fermented samples have been tested by a processor
in the US and found to be of quality equal to that of the "Accra" type supplied
by Ghana. In 1980, the Cocoa Department registered Dominican fermented cocoa
under the quality designation "Hispaniola." Under the project, fermentation
by farmers would be promoted, and export of the superior product would be
arranged with one of the exporting firms. There is a great deal of interest
in fermentation among progressive growers. A total of 1,000 subloans would be
made for the construction of wooden cases, 3.60 x 9.0 x 90 cm, with four
compartments of 90 x 90 cm each, and movable hatches to facilitate shifting of
the beans from one compartment to the next as fermentation progresses.
3.12      Cocoa Drying and Coffee Depulping.  Some producers, especially small-
holders, do not have adequate cocoa drying facilities and thus receive a lower
price for their crop. The project would provide for subloans for the purchase
of 360 sun drying installations made up of drying platforms and movable roofs
of galvanized metal. Subloans would similarly be available for the acquisition
of coffee Drocessing equipment, mainly depulpers.
Nursery Development
3.13      Cocoa.  The seed orchards maintained by the Cocoa Department provide
sufficient hybrid seed for the requirements of the project. Seed production
was 2.7 million in 1979, 3.5 million in 1980, and is expected to reach 8 million
by 1982. There are currently four seed orchards (at Mata Larga, Barranca, El
Seybo and Yamasa), and three more are under development (at Santiago, La Vega
and San Cristobal). There is, however, need for nurseries to meet proposed
project plant requirements (1,260/ha for replanting and 160/ha for rehabilita-
tion). The number of plants and nurseries (200,000 plants each) called for
would be as follows:
Year I              Year 2
Plants (million)                  2.5                4.4
New Nurseries                    13                   8
New nurseries would be established and operated by the Cocoa Department, which
currently operates 21 nurseries, and they would continue to supply plants for
non-project operations. The project would also finance the acquisition of
five trucks for the nurseries.



- 19 -
3.14      Coffee.  The Coffee Department has an adequate supply of selected
Caturra seed for nurseries. Currently, the project area is supplied by
1,420 private and 23 official nurseries, producing about 1.7 and 0.6 million
seedlings, respectively. Plant requirements for replanting are 3,840/ha,
allowing for replacement planting. Thus, the replanting component of the
proposed project would require 19.3 million plants. SEA intends to establish
new Government nurseries and to promote the development of private nurseries,
the intention being to encourage maximum plant production by growers. It is
anticipated that half of the project requirements would be supplied by Govern-
ment nurseries (each producing 100,000 plants annually) and the rest by
private nurseries (each producing 10,000 plants annually) with credit extended
by BA. This corresponds to 52 Government and 519 additional private nurseries
under the proposed project. Financing for three trucks for the operation of
Government nurseries would also be provided.
3.15     The following table shows the estimated number of operations, the
average size of investments, and number of subloans expected for each category.
Details on proposed investments for on-farm development, processing facilities
and nurseries are in Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8.
Project Investment
Average    Total        Total
Number of Operations   Investment Investment  Subloan
Year 1 Year 2  Total        (Us$)   ------US$'000------
On-farm Development
Cocoa Rehabilitation (2.3 ha) 1,000   1,000   2,000    1,000             2,000       1,800
Cocoa Replanting (2.3 ha)       1,500   1,300   2,800    2,600           7,280       6,552
Coffee Replanting (1.0 ha)    3,000   2,000   5,000    2,850            14,250      12,825
Sub-total                     5,500   4,300   9,800    2,401          23,530      21,177
Processing Facilities
Fermenting Boxes                   500     500   1,000          260        260         234
Drying Facilitites                 150     150      300       1,800        540         486
Depulper Machines               2,000   2,000   4,000           300      1,200         720
Sub-total                    2,650   2,650   5,300           377      2,000         720
Nursery Development
Cocoa (Public)                      13       8       21       2,750         58           _
Coffee (Public)                     45        7      52       1,750         91           _
Coffee (Private)                   442      77      519       1,000        519         467
Sub-total                       500       92      592       1,128        668         467



- 20 -
Technical Assistance
3.16      Extension and Credit Staff.  The Cocoa and Coffee Departments would
deploy 80 additional field staff (paras 4.03 and 4.05) to provide technical
support for the renovation and rehabilitation programs. Special training
would be given new staff to insure continued high standards (para 3.17).
The staff would be provided with 15 vehicles (4-wheel drive), 40 motorcycles
and 100 mules. BA would employ 13 additional credit officers and 13
assistants under the proposed project, and 13 motorcycles would also be
provided (para 4.06).
3.17      Training.  The Cocoa and Coffee Departments would intensify their
training programs for field staff and for growers, both in the field and at
their respective central training centers. The cocoa field staff would
receive two initial training courses, and the Department would conduct
25 training sessions each year, each for 30 growers. Each year, it would
also organize about 50 field days, each for 60 growers, and about 10 field
demonstrations on improved practices, each for 40 growers. The coffee field
staff would receive three annual training courses and the Department would
organize about 20 field days and 25 training courses for producers each year,
each function being scheduled for 35 growers.
3.18      Consultant Services.  To improve the technical capability of the
staff and to assist in solving production and marketing problems, the proposed
project would provide for 60 man-months of consultants. In cocoa, the consul-
tants would advise primarily on disease prevention and control, fertilization,
and fermentation. In coffee, the consultants would be engaged to help solve
specific production problems as needed, including possible reduction in
fertilization rates over time. Consultant funds could also be used in part
to finance study tours or training abroad of cocoa and/or coffee personnel.
The terms of reference, selection and conditions of employment of consultants
would be subject to Bank agreement, as would staff training abroad.
Assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.19      Monitoring and evaluation of proposed project activities would be
carried out by the Department of Monitoring and Evaluation of SEA. This
Department would organize and be responsible for data collection and analysis
regarding project implementation and the socio-economic situation in the
project areas. Details on proposed outlays on extension and credit staff,
consultant services and monitoring and evaluation are in Annex 1, Table 9.
D. Project Cost
3.20      The total project cost, including price contingencies, is estimated
at US$40 million (including taxes and duties amounting to about US$0.7 million),
of which about US$10.6 million, or 27%, represents foreign exchange costs net
of import duties and taxes. Project costs have been estimated on the basis of



- 21 -
projected mid-1981 prices, plus 36% over the baseline cost (US$10 million) to
compensate for expected price increases over an estimated four-year disburse-
ment period (the phasing of investment is shown in Annex 1, Table 10), and
assuming that the project would become effective by about mid-1981. Expected
price increases for the imported component would be 9.0% in 1981, 8.5% in
1982 and 7.5% thereafter; for local costs, it was assumed that price increases
would be 14% in 1981, 13% in 1982 and 12% thereafter. The project's total
consultant requirements are estimated at 60 man-months, with an estimated cost
of around US$6,000 per man-month. The following table summarizes the project
cost estimates by main categories:
Cost Table
(US$'000)
Cost of Project         Foreign    Percent of
Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange    Baseline
Cost      Cost       Cost    Component       Cost
(%)        (%)
On-farm Development
Cocoa rehabilitation         1,460        540     2,000       27            7
Cocoa replanting             5,533     1,747      7,280       24           25
Coffee replanting           10,688     3,563    14,250        25           49
Subtotal                17,680      5,850    23,530        25           81
Processing Facilities
Fermenting boxes               226         34       260       13            1
Drying facilities              265        275       540       51            2
Depulper machines              240       960      1,200       80            4
Subtotal                   731      1,269      2,000       63            7
Nursery Development
Cocoa (public)                  36         21        58       37            0
Coffee (public)                 49         42        91       46            0
Coffee (private)               358        161       519       31            2
Subtotal                   444        224        668       34            2
Technical Assistance
Technical services           1,498      1,084     2,582       42            9
Credit services                319         20       339        6            1
Subtotal                 1,816      1,105      2,921       38           10
Baseline Cost                 20,671     8,448    29,119        29          100
Price Contingencies            8,636      2,245    10,881       20           36
Total Project Cost            29,307    10,693    40,000        27          136



- 22 -
E. Financing
3.21      Financing of the project costs would be shared by the sub-borrowers,
the Government, and the Bank in the following amounts and proportions:
Financing Plan
(US$'000)
Sub-borrowers   BA/Government   World Bank   Total Project
Amount   %       Amount   %      Amount   %    Amount   %
On-farm development
Cocoa rehabilitation          200   10        544    27    1,256    63    2,000  100
Cocoa replanting              728   10      1,980    27    4,572    63    7,280  100
Coffee replanting           1,425   10      3,876    27    8,949    67   14.250  100
Subtotal                 2,353   10      6,400    27   14,777    63   23,530  100
Nursery development
Government nurseries            0    0        149   100         0      0      149  100
Private nurseries              52   10        141    27       326    63       519  100
Subtotal                     52    8        290    43       326    49       668  100
Processing facilities           200   10        544    27    1,256    63    2,000  100
Technical assistance              0    0      2,071    71       850    29    2,921  100
Baseline cost                 2,605    9      9,305    32   17,209    58   29,119  100
Price Contingencies             995    9      3,095    29    6,791    62   10,881  100
Total Cost                    3,600    9    12,400    31   24,000    60   40,000  100
3.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$24 million (60% of the total cost)
would finance the entire foreign exchange cost of the project and 45% of the
local cost (US$13 million out of US$29 million).  The Government, through the
SEA's External Resources Department, would finance US$12.4 million (31%) and
project beneficiaries (sub-borrowers) would finance the balance of about
US$3.6 million (9%). (This includes the amount to be provided by BA for
project subloans, as indicated in paragraph 4.09.) The Government would be
the borrower and would carry the foreign exchange risk. The Bank loan would
he made for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the interest
rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.



- 23 -
3.23      The project's credit program would be financed as follows:
Credit Program
(us$'000)
BA             World Bank       Total Project
Amount    %        Amount              Amount    %
Cocoa rehabilitation                 544   30          1,256    70        1,800   100
Cocoa replanting                   1,980   30         4,572    70         6,552   100
Coffee replanting                  3,876   30         8,949    70        12,825   100
Private nurseries                    141   30            326    70          467   100
Processing facilities                544   30         1,256    70         1,800   100
Total Baseline Cost
(excluding contingencies)       7,085   30         16,359    70        23,444   100
F. Procurement
3.24      The investment items to be financed through project subloans would
be procured by more than 10,000 project sub-borrowers over a four-year period;
therefore, bulk procurement through international competitive bidding would
not be suitable. In most cases, works such as planting, weeding, clearing,
and pruning would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers themselves or by hired
labor. Other investment items such as fertilizers, insecticides and fungicides
would be procured at the sub-borrowers' choice from local established agents
who represent a broad spectrum of international and domestic suppliers. There
are no foreign exchange or other types of restrictions on the importation of
any of the items to be financed under the project.
3.25      International competitive bidding, following Bank Guidelines for
Procurement, would be required in the procurement of vehicles and equipment
directly imported by SEA or BA, amounting, in the aggregate, to about
US$500,000, whenever the size of individual contracts exceeded US$100,000.
Both SEA and BA would be encouraged to bulk such items into large contracts,
either individually by each agency or jointly, whenever possible. Similar
type contracts of US$100,000 or less would be awarded in accordance with the
borrower's internal procurement procedures, which include local competitive
bidding and are acceptable to the Bank. Consultants and training abroad would
be financed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined above
would be followed.



- 24 -
G. Disbursement
3.26      The Bank would disburse over a period of four years:
(a)  70% of the amount disbursed for subloans for a total value
of US$21.0 million;
(i) US$1.6 million for cocoa rehabilitation;
(ii) US$6.0 million for cocoa replanting;
(iii) US$11.4 million for coffee replanting;
(iv) US$0.4 million for private nurseries;
(v) US$1.6 milion for processing facilities;
(b)  100% of total expenditures for consultants' services and overseas
training, up to a total value of US$0.6 million; and
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment related to
technical assistance, up to a total amount of US$0.4 million.
The above figures include US$4.8 million of the US$6.8 million price con-
tingencies; the balance of US$2 million would be unallocated.
3.27      Disbursement requests for expenditures in respect of consultants'
service and overseas training and vehicles and equipment would be fully
documented. Reimbursements to BA for subloan expenditures would be made
against Statement of Expenditures (SOE), certified by BA. The documentation
to support SOEs would be retained by BA for review during the course of super-
vision missions. SOEs submitted in respect of subloan expenditures would be
accompanied by a detailed breakdown of expenditures by: type of subloans,
total amount of each subloan, disbursements during the reporting period and
total-to-date for each subloan, and total amount to be reimbursed. Internal
control mechanism in BA is adequate for the satisfactory operation of SOE
procedures.
3.28      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements, assuming that the date
of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be no later than September 30,
1981, would be as follows:
Bank FY                   1982           1983          1984           1985
FY Semester             1      2       1       2     1       2     1       2
------------------(US$ million)-----------------
Disbursements
During Semester       1.8  3.6      4.8   4.8    3.6   2.4    1.8    1.2
Cumulative            1.8  5.4    10.2  15.0   18.6  21.0   22.8   24.0



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      SEA, through its Undersecretary for Planning, would be responsible
for the overall coordination and supervision of proposed project implementa-
tion. Responsibility for direct execution of proposed project components
would be as follows: SEA's Cocoa and Coffee Departments for technical aspects
of the cocoa and coffee components, respectively; BA for the provision of
credit to farmers; and SEA's Departments of External Resources and of Control
and Evaluation for the monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
4.02      The Cocoa Department is responsible primarily for extension services,
farmer training programs, and development of cocoa nurseries. In addition,
field staff collaborates closely with BA agents on technical aspects of loan
applications and credit supervision. The managers of the two Interregional
Offices would be responsible for field implementation of the cocoa component
of the proposed project in their respective areas under the guidance and
supervision of the Department Director.
4.03      To complement the 36 existing field staff in project implementation,
the Department would engage 30 additional professionals, 16 in the first year
of the project and 14 in the second year. The total of 66 field agents would
give a farmer/agent ratio of about 100:1, considering that existing staff
would be only partially available for project activities.
4.04      The Coffee Department's functions are similar to those of the Cocoa
Department. In addition, coffee agents are active in promoting and assisting
farmer associations, particularly in activities concerned with input and crop
marketing. The Department currently has 15 extension workers in the project
area, but their involvement in proposed project activities would be only
marginal, given the increased demands on their efforts arising from further
1980 hurricane damage (hurricane Allen, August 1980) and from stepped-up
activity in farmer association assistance.
4.05      To carry out project activities, the Coffee Department would engage
50 agents, of whom 20 would be field workers, 25 para-technical staff, and
five supervisors. The para-technical staff would be engaged particularly in
the promotion of private nurseries and day-to-day assistance to growers,
particularly in the establishment of contour plantings. Field execution of
the coffee component would be the responsibility of the Manager of Inter-
regional Zone B, with headquarters at Bani, under the guidance and supervision
of the Director of the Department.
4.06      BA has four branch offices with some 85 agents in each of the
proposed project cocoa and coffee areas. An additional 13 credit agents and
13 assistants would be engaged to accommodate increased credit demand under
the proposed project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SEA
and BA would engage additional staff as specified above.



- 26 -
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.07      Credit to sub-borrowers would be channelled through BA under a sub-
sidiary agreement with the Government as represented by SEA. BA would
extend subloans to finance up to 90% of investments on the basis of farm
development plans or processing facilities and nursery investment plans,
to be prepared by SEA extension staff. Farm development plans would specify
the agronomic practices to be followed and include cash flow projections of
the investments proposed. Evaluation of the creditworthiness of subloan
applicants and of the farm development or investment plans would be carried
out by BA, who would assume the risk for default.
4.08      Repayment and grace period terms for each project subloan would be
established by BA in consultation with SEA technicians on the basis of the
cash flow projection of the corresponding farm or investment plan. Subloans
for cocoa rehabilitation would have repayment terms ranging to a maximum of
six years, including grace periods of up to one year. Subloans for cocoa and
coffee replanting would have maximum periods of 10 years, including four years
of grace. Subloans for nurseries and processing facilities that are
not part of an overall farm development plan would have repayment terms of up
to six years, with one year of grace.
4.09      The -Bank would reimburse 70% of the amount of subloans.  The full
amount of subloans would be made available by the Government to BA as a
capital contribution. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
on the Bank loan.
4.10      The minimum contribution by beneficiaries would be 10% of the invest-
ment cost. Farmers with more than 18 ha of cocoa or 6 ha of coffee would not
be eligible to participate in the proposed project. BA would charge 11% per
annum on subloans of less than US$2,000 to farmers owning less than 2 ha and
13% on all other subloans, both rates inclusive of interest charges and
commissions. Farmers' associations and cooperatives in which at least 80% of
the members owned less than 2 ha would also be eligible for subloans at 11%
interest. The Government and the Bank would review annually the operations
of BA relating to cocoa and coffee production and agree on any modifications
of the terms and conditions for project subloans that such review might
indicate to be required. The first such review would be carried out by
October 1, 1982.
4.11      The Government would enter into a subsidiary agreement with BA,
incorporating the terms and conditions of the lending operations specified
in the preceding paragraphs. The execution of the subsidiary agreement,
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that (a) subloans would be made under
the terms and conditions stated above; (b) Government would agree to hold
annual consultations with the Bank regarding BA operations relating to cocoa
and coffee production and terms and conditions for project subloans and (c) BA
would not offer producers lines of credit for purposes similar to those under
the project at more favorable terms and conditions.



- 27 -
C. Accounts and Audits
4.12      Separate project accounts, records and documentation pertaining to
financial transactions would be kept by SEA and BA in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied. Project accounts and related
financial information, including those supporting the Statement of Expendi-
tures utilized by SEA and BA to claim reimbursements from the Bank, and BA's
financial statements, would be audited annually, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting standards, by the Comptroller General in respect of SEA
and by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank in respect of BA. The
auditors' reports should express an opinion as to the reliability of State-
ments of Expenditures to support claims for disbursements (i.e., whether
claims are supported by adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred
expenditures for legitimate project purposes) and the adequacy of internal
controls. Certified copies of the audited accounts, together with the report
of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year (December 31). Assurances on these points were
obtained at negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation and Progress Reporting
4.13      The Control and Evaluation Department (C & E) of SEA would be respon-
sible for establishing and maintaining a system for monitoring the progress
of the cocoa and coffee components and collecting and analyzing technical
and financial data to evaluate the impact of the investments and technical
services. It is envisaged that field staff of the Cocoa and Coffee Depart-
ments, jointly with the regional agricultural planning offices, would collect,
on a continuous basis, during the four-year implementation period of the
project, production, marketing and financial data including credit use and
recovery and technical performance of sub-borrowers. The information would be
centralized, processed and analyzed by the C & E unit of SEA. This Department
would consolidate the information and that of BA and would be responsible for
submitting to the Government and to the Bank consolidated semi-annual reports.
4.14      In addition, the C & E Department would be responsible for preparing
a draft completion report and presenting it to the Government and to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the above monitoring
and evaluation procedures would be carried out; (b) semi-annual reports would
be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of each semester; and (c) a
draft project completion report would be prepared by the C & E Department no
later than six months after the proposed project investments would have been
completed.



- 28 -
V. PROJECT PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01      At full development in project year 8, incremental production of
cocoa would be about 5,700 tons annually, with an approximate value of US$10.3
million at 1980 farmgate prices. The expected incremental production repre-
sents about 16% of the country's average 1977-79 cocoa production. Correspond-
ing figures for incremental coffee production starting in year 6 would be
4,000 tons, worth about US$8.5 million, and amounting to 8% of average 1977-79
production.
B. Markets and Prices
Cocoa
5.02      Internal marketing is characterized by a large number of intermedia-
ries who purchase the product at the farmgate or in nearby villages. Inter-
mediaries acquire about 60% of the crop, which they then sell to exporters.
Exporters also buy directly from the larger farmers (about 38% of the crop)
and from associations of farmers (2%). Recent surveys carried out by the
Cocoa and Coffee Departments show that farmgate prices average 67% of export
prices (New York quotations) in the case of cocoa and 72% in the case of
coffee. Although these relatively high ratios point to no major or unusual
inefficiencies in cocoa or coffee marketing, SEA is carrying out a program
to enable farmers to participate more actively in marketing (para 1.08). In
the specific case of cocoa, improvements in processing such as those contem-
plated under the proposed project (paras 3.11 and 3.12) should have a larger
impact on increasing farm incomes than possible improvements in marketing
alone.
5.03      About 80% of cocoa production is exported.  Due to inadequate
processing by farmers (para 2.03), Dominican cocoa is of inferior quality and
finds a market only in the United States at a price penalty of about 8%.
Cocoa exports are handled by a small number of firms.
5.04      The Cocoa Department, with financial assistance from the Cocoa
Commission, is promoting better cocoa drying and fermentation practices among
farmers (para 3.11). This activity would be stepped up under the proposed
project. Producer associations are being increasingly formed and are receiv-
ing SEA assistance, and they would be expected to handle marketing and export
of the improved quality cocoa. Trial shipments of the product made by growers
associations with Cocoa Department support have been favorably received by a
major US firm.



- 29 -
5.05      World cocoa prices are expected to decrease considerably in real
terms during the coming decade. To a large extent, these forecasts are based
on expectations of huge production increases in Brazil, Ivory Coast and, to a
lesser extent in absolute terms, Malaysia. The contribution of the proposed
project's incremental cocoa output to world's total production and exports
would of course be negligible.
5.06      The lower real cocoa price expectations, as forecast by the Bank's
Commodities and Exports Projections Division (November 1980), are fully taken
into account in the financial and economic analyses of the proposed project.
Even under those unfavorable price forecasts, the expected rates of return
would be high (para 5.09), clearly reflecting the country's comparative
advantage in cocoa production.
Coffee
5.07      The broad characteristics of coffee marketing, exports and market
outlook are very similar to those of cocoa. The principal differences are
that (a) a larger proportion of total output is consumed domestically (35%);
(b) farmers' associations and cooperatives play a larger role in processing
and marketing, some even through the export stage; and (c) Dominican coffee
is of high quality and commands "other milds" quotations in the New York
market.
C. Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
5.08      Producers' benefits were analyzed on the basis of illustrative farm
models, which are shown in Annex 1, Tables 11  to 16.   The underlying tech-
nical assumptions for these models are given in Chapter III. The financial
assumptions for these models reflect input (investment and operating expen-
diture) and output prices of end-1980 at farmgate, adjusted in the case
of coffee and cocoa to reflect changes in real prices as projected by the
Commodity and Export Projections Division of the Bank (Annex 1, Table 17).
5.09      Producers' benefits in 1980 constant prices and the financial
rates of return to sub-borrowers are summarized in the following table.



- 30 -
Cocoa Development        Coffee Development
Rehabilitation Replanting           Replanting
- - - -  - - - - -   (us$)---------------------
1. Average Farm Size (ha)             2.3            2.3                   1.0
2. Investment Cost                  1,000          1,600                 2,800
3. Annual Income at Full
Development 1/
3.1  Without Project 2/          1,150            800                   165
3.2  With Project 2/             2,070          3,310                1,220
3.3  Relative Increase (%)          80            313                   639
4. Debt Service with Project 3/       300            660                   730
5. Net Income After Debt Service  1,770            2,650                   490
6. Financial Rate of Return (%)        61             57                    24
1/   Full development would be reached in year 5 for cocoa rehabilitation,
in year 8-for cocoa renovation, and in year 6 for coffee renovation.
2/   Including remuneration of family labor.
3/   At full development.
5.10      The resulting financial rates of return on on-farm investment,
ranging from 24% to 61%, indicate that it would be profitable for farmers
to undertake the proposed investment.
5.11      Sensitivity tests for each farm model to analyze the impact of
changes in prices and/or quantities of inputs and outputs on the financial
viability of the proposed investments indicate that (a) the proposed invest-
ments are more sensitive to the price fluctuation of outputs than to that
of inputs; and (b) cocoa renovation is less sensitive than either cocoa
rehabilitation or coffee renovation. In any event, all of the returns on
proposed investments would be quite high and would be financially viable,
even under the following very unfavorable circumstances, assuming the
opportunity cost of capital to be 12%.
Switching Values
Reduction of      Increase in      Increase in
Component                    Benefits        Investment      Operating Cost
Cocoa Rehabilitation              39.8              266.0              87.8
Cocoa Renovation                  54.8              290.6             207.9
Coffee Renovation                 26.2               87.7              59.5



- 31 -
D. Project Cash Flow
5.12      The estimated project cash flow of the project's lending program
handled by BA is given in Table 18 in Annex 1. Underlying assumptions are
that (a) BA's lending rate would be 12% (average of two lending rates);
(b) Government would pass on the Bank loan proceeds to BA as a contribution
toward its share capital; and (c) BA's administrative costs were estimated
at 6% of the loan portfolio, on the basis of BA's present average expenses,
including overhead costs. The calculations indicate that these arrangements
would enable BA not only to cover administrative and financial costs, but also,
during the 12-year period of project operations, to accumulate net earnings
amounting to US$7.7 million, in addition to the share capital contribution
of US$23.4 million.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Benefits
6.01       The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to (a) in-
crease production and exports of cocoa and coffee, two commodities for which
the country's natural endowment is favorable; (b) improve the productivity
and incomes of-approximately 10,000 small-scale farmers; (c) create consider-
able rural employment opportunities, estimated at about 1,100 man-years of
hired labor annually at full development; and (d) create additional Government
revenues of about US$6.0 million annually (at 1980 product prices) at full
development, by the operation of taxes and levies on exports of cocoa and
coffee (about US$3.0 million each). Export taxes on cocoa and coffee were
introduced in 1975 and are currently applied at progressive rates of 20% to
40% on FOB cocoa prices in excess of US$0.60/lb and of 10% to 30% on FOB
coffee prices above US$0.80/lb.
6.02      At 1980 prices, the annual value of the incremental project produc-
tion would be US$21 million at farmgate and, assuming that it is all exported
and ignoring possible price improvements due to better cocoa quality, foreign
exchange earnings would be about US$31 million per year.
6.03      The direct beneficiaries of the project would be about 9,800 small-
scale farmers (4,800 for cocoa and 5,000 for coffee), with an average farm
size to be developed under the project of 2.3 ha for cocoa and 1.0 ha for
coffee. About 2,000 farmers, many of whom would be the same sub-borrowers as
for on-farm development, would purchase processing facilities to increase
the value of their products and 1,000 coffee growers would develop private
nurseries. Practically all 9,800 beneficiaries of the on-farm development
program would fall within the Bank's relative poverty target group for the
Dominican Republic, with an average per capita income of less than one-third
the national average. The project contribution to employment would come
mainly from regular and part-time job opportunities generated at the farm
level. At full development, the project would require annually an additional
880,000 man-days of labor, equivalent to 3,300 full-time jobs. About 66% of
this total (2,200 man-years) would be provided by family labor of the coffee
and cocoa producers.



- 32 -
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.04      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated for each
component and for the project as a whole on the basis of the illustrative
farm models, including the cost of technical and credit services, as shown
in Annex 1, Table 19, on the following assumptions:
(a)  investment and operating costs were calculated using end-1980
prices and were assumed to remain constant in real terms;
(b)  the incremental project production was valued, utilizing the world
market price adjusted to derive farmgate equivalent (Annex 1,
Table 17); prices for coffee and cocoa were adjusted to reflect
changes in real prices according to the projections made by the
Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division;
(c)  deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties; and
(d)  a standard conversion factor of 0.80 for non-tradable goods and
services was used to reflect a real exchange rate about 25%
higher than the official rate.
6.05      Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
is estimated at 61%. (Rate of return calculations for the project and the
individual components are in Annex 1, Table 19.) This rate may overestimate
the true rate in that it is based on no production increases without project.
This may be too pessimistic; however, the record of the recent past provides
no grounds for a better assumption. In any case, the solidity of the project
returns is clearly brought out by the sensitivity analysis (para 6.06).
6.06      The sensitivity of the project component's economic viability, shown
below, indicates that the project would continue to have an acceptable rate
of return (of the order of 12%) 1/ even if one of the following unfavorable
developments occurred: (a) benefits (productivity or price) decreased by
59%; and (b) costs increased by 143%. The figures are as follows:
Component                          Reduced Benefits      Increased Costs
 ________________(% )___________  _- _
Cocoa Rehabilitation                     58                       139
Cocoa Renovation                         68                       213
Coffee Renovation                        52                       109
Total Project                          59                       143
6.07      Sensitivity tests have also been made of the project's viability
under simultaneous variations in benefits and costs (Annex 1, Table 20). The
expected rate of return would drop below 12% only when a 50% increase in cost
were accompanied by a 50% decrease in benefits, which is considered unlikely.
1/   This is the assumed opportunity cost of capital.



- 33 -
C. Project Risks
6.08       Some coffee areas of the hemisphere have been severely affected by
leaf rust, a fungus disease to which caturra is susceptible. The Dominican
phytosanitary control services have forbidden the importation of coffee plants
but there is a risk that the disease can be carried by spores over long dis-
tances and could reach the island. While resistant varieties do exist and are
grown in collection by the Coffee Department, no variety has been developed
which combines leaf rust resistance with high quality and productivity. The
renovation program offers the best protection currently available against
potential leaf rust infestations, since planting in lines would allow for
easier treatment, and the high production levels would justify the treatment
costs. In addition, the proposed replanting programs would decrease the risk
of hurricane damage to coffee trees and of pest damage to cocoa farms.
D. Environmental Impact
6.09      The hilly areas where coffee is grown are subject to erosion.  Coffee
is the best crop adapted to steep hillsides, and dense coffee plantings on the
contour under light shade offer excellent protection against soil erosion.
Cocoa is grown on lower slopes, where it offers similar although less needed
protection. Because of the lack of major pests, there would be no substantial
use of pesticides in the project areas. The use of fertilizer would increase
significantly, but the dense canopy of renovated plantations would prevent
runoff and water contamination.  On balance, the project would have a positive
impact on the environment.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) Selection and conditions of employment of consultants and staff
overseas training programs would be subject to Bank agreement
(para 3.18);
(b) Procurement procedures specified in paragraph 3.25 would be
followed;
(c) To complement existing staff in project implementation, the follow-
ing additional professional staff would be engaged: (i) 30 by the
Cocoa Department (para 4.03); (ii) 50 by the Coffee Department
(para 4.05); and (iii) 26 by BA (para 4.06);
(d) Terms and conditions for subloans specified in paragraphs 4.07 to
4.10 would be followed (para 4.11);



- 34 -
(e) Government would agree to hold annual consultations with the Bank
regarding BA operations relating to cocoa and coffee production and
terms and conditions on project subloans (para 4.11);
(f) During the life of the project, BA would not offer producers' lines
of credit for purposes similar to those under the project at more
favorable terms and conditions (para 4.11);
(g) Accounting and auditing procedures specified in paragraph 4.12 would
be followed, and certified copies of the audited reports, together
with the report of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank not later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year (para 4.12);
and
(h) Monitoring and evaluation procedures specified in paragraph 4.13
would be carried out; semi-annual reports would be sent to the Bank
within two months of the end of each semester; and a draft project
completion report would be prepared by the C&E Department not later
than six months after the proposed project investments would have
been completed (para 4.14).
7.02      A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Government had
entered into a subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with BA, incor-
porating the terms and conditions of the lending operations specified in
paragraphs 4.07 to 4.10 (para 4.11).
7.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of
US$24 million. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at the rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
June 1, 1981



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Land Suitable for Agriculture
Ha                 %
1.  Total area suitable for agricultur                    4,800,000            100
2/
2. Total area in sugarcane-_
CEA administration                 101,100
CEA outgrowers                      77,800
Vicini sugarcane                    24,700
Gulf & Western administra-
tion                              43,900
Gulf & Western outgrowers           27,400
274,900              6
3.  Total forested area-/                                 1,096,600              23
4/
4.  Total pasture area-                                   1,179,400              25
5.  Total irrigated area-
Irrigated state-owned land          43,300
Irrigated private land             116,700    160,000                3
6.  Total rainfed agricultural land--                     2,089,100              43
1/ -Source:  OAS (1967) and National Statistics Office (1968).  Includes Land
Classes I-VII.
Z/  Source:  State Sugar Council (CEA) (1980) and INAZUCAR (1980).
3i  Source:  General Forestry Directorate (DGF) (1980).
4/  Source:  Agricultural Census (1971).  Estimated 138,500 are improved pastures.
5/  Source:  INDRHI (1980).  At various levels of efficiency. Excludes irrigated sugarcane.
6/  Source:  Mission estimate.  Includes tree crops.
May 18, 1981



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Trends and Main Economic and Financial Indicators
( US$ Million)
1"      1969     1970      1971     1972     1973     1974     1975      1976     1977    1973      1979
A8ICULTUItAL CllfIT  .                       42.3     42.3      45.3     48.7     55.S9     3.2    117.4   143.0   151.9    163.2   1"3.1    207.7
YEARLY GROWTH                              17.8                7.1      7.5     14.8     48.8      41.1     21.8      6.2       7.4    15.3      10.4
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH 1968-75    19.0
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH 1975-79      9.8
SHORTTERM X                                95.0     93.0     93.0      91.0     89.0     95.0      77.0    73.0      65.0     73.0    69.0      64.0
LONGTFRM Y                                  5.0      7.0       7.0      9.0     11.0     15.0      23.0     27.0     35.0     27.0    31.0       36.0
AGRICULTIRIAL CREDIT BY INSTITUTION
AGRICULTURAL DANK                          25.0     28.0     28.2      30.1     31.S     43.4       6B.0       78.0  81.5      83.5   121.9    127.3
FINANCIAL COMPANIES                                  0.1       0.7      0.9      1.5      2.2       0.5      0.8      5..      3.1      6.5      7.1
COhhEiCIAL BANKS                           15.2     12.7      15.5     16.2     21.1     34.5      46.9     61.9     61.9      73.1    6?.4      70.9
OTHERS  LDFP. CClD)                         2.1      1.5 IS   0.9       1.5      1.8      3.1       2.0      2.3      2.9       3.5     2.3       2.4
TOlAL CrEDIT                                287.4    331.1    381.8    433.4   501.1   629.8    898.8  1,082.9  1,247.6  1,453.5 1,653.1  1,934.1
TOTAL DEFOSITS                              218.4    251.1    300.2    353.3    422.8    533.5    767.8    882.2    946.4  1,091.6  1,139.0  1,160.3
G.D.P.                                    1,162.1  1,325.4  1,485.4  1,666.4  1,987.4  2,344.8  2,922.6  3,599.5  3,935.2  4,466.6 4,695.6 '9,463.2
AGRICULTURAL G.D.P.                         297.6    313.6    345.5    370.5    408.9    521,2    648.1    772.8    769.1    931.2   972.9  1,113.6
G.D.P. INDEX (1970 BASIS>                    78.0     89.0    100.0    107.0    110.0    114.0    134.0    157.0    162.0    176.0   178.0    201.0
INDICAIORS IN CONSTANT 1970 PRICES
.   -  _   _      _ _.       _ _ _    .   _   _     .  _-_ - -_--.- -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                        54.2     47.5      45.3     45.5     50.8     73.0      87.6     91.1     93.8      92.7   105.7    103.3
YEARLY GROWTH                            13.2    (12.4)    (4.6)      0.4     11.6     CZ.7      20.0      4.0      3.0      (1.2:   14.0      (2.31
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH 1968-75   7.7
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH 1975-79   3.2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BY INSTITUTION
AGRICULTIJRAL BANK                         32.1     31.5      28.2     28.1     28.6     38.1      50.7     49.7     50.3      47.4    62.9      63.3
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH            6.4
FINANCIAL COMPANIES                                  0.1       0.7      0.8      1.4       1.9      0.4      0.5      3.5       1.8     3.7       3.5
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH           42.7
COMMERCIAL BANKS                           19.5     14.3      15.5     15.1     19.2     30.3      35.0     39.4     38.2     41.5    37.9       35.3
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH            5.5
OTHERS (DOF. OCD)                           2.7      1.7       0.9      1.4      1.6      2.7       1.S      1.5      1.8       2.0      1.3      1.2
AVERAGE YEARLY GROWTH           (7.1)
TOTAL CREDIT                              368.5    372.0    381.8    405.0   455.5   552.5    670.7   689.7    770.1    825.9   928.7   962.2
TOTAL DEFOSITS                            280.0    282.1    300.2    330.2   384.4    468.0    573.0   561.9    584.2   620.2   639.9    581.2
G.D.f .                                 1,489.9  1,4U9.2  1,485.4  1,557.4  1,806.7  2,0S6.8  2,181.0  2.292.7  2,429.1  2,537.8 2,638.0  2.718.0
AGRICULTURAL G.D.P.                       381.5    352.4    345.5    346.3    371.7    457.2    483.7   492.2    474.8    529.1   546.6    554.0
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AS Y
OF TOiAL CREIIT                            14.7     12.8      11.9     11.2     11.2      13.2     13.1     13.7     12.2      11.2    11.4      10.7
OF TOTAL DFPOSITS                          19.4     16.8      IS.1     13.8     13.2     15.6      15.3     16.2     16.1     15.0    Io.5       17.8
rDF Y.0.F .                                 3.6      3.2       3.0      2.9      2.8      3.5       4.0      4.0      3.9      3.7      4.0       3.8
OF ASRICULTURAL G.D.P.                     14.2     13.5      13.1     13.1     13.7     16.0      18.t     18.5     19.8      17.5    19.3      1d.7
SOURCE: CENTRAL SANK MONTHLY 3.LLETINS
May  18, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 37 -                     Table 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio of Commercial Banks
Loan Purpose                           1975     1976      1977      1978     1979
--------------(US$ million)-------------
Livestock Production                     27       26        27        26       28
Crop Production                          35       37        46        42       49
Total Agricultural Sector        62        63        73       68        77
Total Loan Portfolio                    750      835       926    1,011    1,079
% of Loan Portfolio in the
Agricultural Sector (%)              8.2       7.5       7.8       6.7      7.1
May 18, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 38 -                       Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Export Statistics of Cocoa and Coffee, 1970-79
Production                                 Export
Volume                 Volume      Price        Value       Tax Revenue
(000 t)                (000 t)   (¢/lb)         --(US$ million)-----
Cocoa
1970          37.9                  34.4        25.3         17.4
1971          32.4                  26.9        21.6          11.6
1972          36.0                  32.2        22.3         14.4
1973          32.5                  23.1        38.7         17.9
1974          38.3                  26.6        75.3         40.0
1975          30.9                  21.9        50.7         22.2
1976          33.1                  24.5        88.5         45.9           3.2
1977          34.4                  25.1       174.1         92.8         20.0
1978          36.9                  27.1       145.7         59.4          11.4
1979          35.9                  24.5       131.7         72.3          12.8
Coffee
1970          38.7                  27.2        30.6         18.5         -
1971          45.8                  25.1        41.9         23.4         -
1972          53.7                  31.3        46.1         32.1         -
1973          49.0                  39.7        54.3         47.9         -
1974          57.1                  34.8        60.1         46.4         -
1975          63.6                  31.6        62.6         43.9         -
1976          57.3                  41.7       109.4        101.3          13.3
1977          60.0                  43.9       190.0        181.4         49.9
1978          37.3                  27.3       161.2         97.9          16.3
1979          45.9                  43.6       164.0        157.6         28.0
Source:  SEA and Banco Central.
May 18, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                             Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow of Coffee Commission (Coffee Year Ended September 30, 1979)
(US$'000)
1978             1979
Cash Inflow
Beginning Balance                        79.22            84.3
Contribution from Export               1328.6           1557.6
Loans                                   100.0            150.0
Others                                    0.0              0.7
Total                              1507.8           1792.6
Cash Outflow
'I
Projects of the Commission                -              713.6-l
Support to SEA                          953.6             80.5
Contribution to International           191.2             17.8
Organizations
Rural Road Construction                 143.2             90.3
Others                                  135.5             94.0
Total                              1423.5            996.2
Cash Balance                             84.3            796.4
1/   Includes feeder road construction amounting to RD$ 187,806.
May 18, 1981



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow of Cocoa Commission (Coffee Year Ended September 30, 1979)
(US$'000)
Cash Inflow
Carry over from the previous year                                 973.6
Contribution from export                                        1,325.0
Total Inflow                                     2,298.6
Cash Outflow
Construction of Feeder Roads (62 km)                              661.7
Emergency Recovery Plan for Hurricane Damages                     700.0
Sun-drying Facilities and Fermenting Boxes                        114.7
Disease Control                                                   116.0
Investment Supports                                                87.5
Training of Producers                                              39.0
Establishment of a Rotating Funds for Cocoa Fermenting             50.0
Budgetary Support to Cocoa Department                             529.7
Total Outflow                                   2,298.6
Balance                                                                    0
May 18, 1981



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                           Table 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Costs of On-Farm Development (Cost per Farm)
Tv-De of Investment        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total
Te_fIvsmn_----- (US$)
Cocoa Rehabilitation (2.3 ha)
Cocoa Seedling                 38          -         -         38
Seedling Transportation         3         -          -         33
Fertilizer                    317          -         -        317
Labor                         639          -         -        639
Total Investment            998         -          -        998
Cocoa Renovation (2.3 ha)
Cocoa Seedling                286         36         0        322
Seedling Transportation        26          3         0         29
Fertilizer                    133       198        264        596
Labor                         783        450       414       1647
Total Investment           1228       687        679       2594
Coffee Renovation (1.0 ha)
Coffee Plant                  437          5         0        442
Shade Trees                     8          0         0          8
Fertilizer                    144        198       288        630
Insecticide                     5         10        25         40
Fungicide                       6         11        11         28
Labor                         936        374       387       1697
Total Investment           1536       597        711       2844
May 18, 1981



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Costs of Nursery Development and Cocoa Processing Facilities
Cocoa Processing
Nursery Development                              Facilities
Linit    Government Cocoa-/  Government Coffee-/ Private Coffee-/  Fermenting   Sun-Drying
Unit           Cost        Nurseries              Nurseries            Nurseries           Boxes      FacilitieE
(US$)             (US$)                  (US$)                (US$)        (US$)         (US$)
Stanchions                     Unit            2.00         27      54                -          -              -            -             -
Small Wooden Posts             Unit            0.50        413    207             -        -            -       -            -             -
Large Wooden Posts              Unit           1.00         -       -            290      290           -       -            -             -
Wire                            Unit           1.11        135    150            135      150           -       -            -             -
Nails & Cramps                   lb            0.50         20      10            40       20           -       -            -             -
Extenders                       Unit           2.00         80    160             -        -            -       -            -             -
Gravel                       Truckload        20.00         15    300
Cement                         Bag             3.25         20      65            -        -            -       -            -             -
Cement Block                   Unit            0.30         -       -             60       18           -       -            -             -
Land Clearing & Leveling         -              -           -       80            -        -            -       -            -             -
Irrigation Equipment            -               -           -      420            -       420           -       -            -             -
Water Tanks                     Unit         140.00         2      280            -        -            -       -            -             -
Shed Construction                               -           -      400            -        -            -       -            -             -
Branches for Shed              Unit            0.02    12,600    252          12,600      252           -       -            -             -
Labor                          Man-day         4.5          28    126             28      126          104    468           30            300
Tools                                           -           -       -             -       314           -       36           -             -
Plastic Bags                    Unit           0.015        -       -             -        -        10,000    150            -             -
Seed                           Unit            0.01         -       -             -        -        10,000    100            -             -
Pesticide                   Application        5.00         -       -             -        -            10      50           -
Fertilizer                      kg             0.23         -       -             -        -           850    196            -             -
Concrete Base                    -              -           -       -             -        -            -       -            -            105
Lumber                           -              -           -       -             -        -            -       -           214           319
Roof Material                    -              -           -       -             -        -            -       -            -            124
Other Metals                     -              -                        -        -        -            -                    16           952
Miscellaneous                                   -           -      246            -       160           -       -            -
Total                                                       2,750                  1,750                1,000           260          1800
Foreign Exchange Component (%)                                      37                     46                   31           13            51
December 30, 1980
cD



DOMINICAN REPUBLlC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Technical and Credit Services_
QuantitL  .er Year   _                  Cost  Per  Year                 Foreign Exchange    Rank
Unit        Unit Cost          1       2       3      Total       1         2 _      3        Total            Component          Financing
(US$)                       --- (us$ 000) -------------- _
A- SEA
ExtensionAents
Cocoa                                       man/year        5,900          16      30      30        76        94.4   177.0   177.0        448.4               0                  0
Coffee                                      man/year        5,900          10      20      20        50        59.0   118.0   118.0    295.0                   0                  0
Sub-total                                man/year       5,900          26      50      50        126       153.4   295.0   295.0        743.4              0                   0
Extension Supporting Staff, Coffee
Supervisors                                 man/year        6,300           5       5       5        15        31.5      31.5     31.5      94.5               0                   0
Assistants                                  man/year        3,900         13       25      25        63        50.7    97.5       97.5     245.7               0                  0
Sub-total                                man/year        -             18      30      30         78        82.2   129.0   129.0    340.2                  0                   0
Consultants
Cocoa                                       man/month    6,000             I0      10      10        30        60.0    60.0       60.0    180.0               90                100
Coffee                                      man/month    6,000             10      10      10        30        S0.0    60.0    60.0    180.0                  90                100
Sub-total                                man/month    6,000            20      20      20         60       120.0   120.0   320.0    360.0                 90                 10f
Training Courses
Cocoa                                    No, of coxurses    700            27      25      23        77        18.9    17.5       17.5      53.9              10                   0
Coffee                                   No. of courses    700             29      29      29        87        20.3    20.3       20.3      60.9              10                   0
Sub-total                             No. of vuorses      700          56      54      54        164        39.2    37.8       37.8     114.8             10                   0
Training Abroad                                man/month      1,500          24      24      24        72         36.0    35.0    36.0    108.0                100                 100
Monitoring & Evaluation                          n.a.          n.a.           -       -       -          -        20.0    20.0    20.0         60.0              0                   0
Costs of Transportation
Trucks                                        unit         2,900           6       2       -         8       174.0      58.0      -       232.0              80                 80
Four-wheel Drive tehicles                     anit       11,500           10       5       -        15       115.0    57.5        -       172.5              80                 80
Motor-Cycles                                  unit         1,I00         20       20       -        40        22.0      22.0      -        44.0              80                 80
Mules                         1/              unit           450         50       50       -       100        22.5      22.5      -        45.0               0                   0
Operating Cost of Vehicles                     -             -             -       -       -         -        93.3   134.6    134.6    362.5                 80
Sub-total                                    -            -             -       -        -         -       426.8   294.6   134.6        85.0               76                __2
Total SEA                                    -            -             -       -       -          -       877.6   932.4   772.4  2,582.4                 42                  35
B. RanS.OAAa..
Costs of Personnel
Credit Agents                               man/year        5,600           7      13      13        33         39.2     72.8     72.8   184.8                 0                   0
Credit Assistants                           man/year        3,900           7      13      13        33         27.3    50.7    50.7   128.7                   0                   0
Sub-total                                san/year          -           14      26      26         66        66.5        5    123.5   313.5                 0                   0
Costs of Transportation
Motorcycles                      1/           unit         1,100           7       6       _        13          7.7      6.6      -       14.3               M0                  80
Operating Costsof Motorcycles-                                      -          -       -             -          2.3      4.3      4.3     10.9               80                   0
Sub-total                                    -             -            -       -                  -        10.0    10.9        4.3     25.2              10                  40 oH|
Total Banco Agricola                         -           -              -       -       _          _        76.5   134.4    127.8   338.7                   6                     t
Total Pro ject                                      -           -              -       -       -          -       954.1 1  066 8   900.2 2,2  .1                 38                  31
1/  30% of the purchased price of vehicles
2/ 300%. of CIF price
12/18/80



44 -                        ANNEX 1
Table 10
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Investment
(US$' 000)
YEAR 1    YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4           TOTAL   FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
COMPONENT
ON-FAM rM1FVEjOPMFNT
COCOA REHABILITATION          1,000       19000           0          0      2,000         27 %
COCOA RENOVATION               1,845      2,634       L,917        884      7,280         24 %
COFFEE RENOVATION             4,620       4,880      3,330       1,420     14,250         25 %
SUBTOTAL                    7,465      8,514       5,247      2,304      23,530         25 X
PROCESSINC FACILITIES
FERMENTING BOXES                 130        130           0          0         260        13 *
DIRYING FACILITIES               270        270           0          0        540         51 X
DEPULPER MACHINES                600        600           0          0      1,200         80 %
SUBTOTAL                    1.000       1,000          0           0      2,000         63 %
NURSFRY DEVELOPMENT
COCOA(PUBLIC)                     36         22           0          0          58        37 X
COFFEE(PIJBLIC)                   79         12           0          0          91        46 7.
COFFEE(PRIVATE)                  442         77           0          0        519         31 %
SUBTOTAL                      557         111           0          0        668         34 %
TECHNICAL. ASSISTNCE
TECHNICAL SERVICES               878        932         772          0      2,582         42 %
CREDIT SERVICES                   77        134         128          0         339         6 X
SUBTOTAL                      955       1,066        900           0      2?921         38 X
BASELINE COST                    9,977     10,691       6,l47      2,304     29I119         29 7
PRICE CONTINGENCIES              2,081      3,752       3,094      1,550    10,477          20 %
TOTAL FRO.JECT COST          120'58      14,444      9,241       3,854    39,596          27 %
January 7, 1981



- 45 -                                ANNEX I
Table 11
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis - Cocoa Rehabilitation (2.3 ha)
(US$)
O             1             2             3              4           5-9         10-20        TOTALS
BENEFITS
'iROSS PRODUCTION VALUE               1194          1534           1822          2186          2267           2228          1520         35668
COSTS
COCOA SEEDLIN6                           0            38              0             0              0             0              0            38
SEEDLING TRANSPORTATION                  0              3             0             0              0             0              A             3
FERTILIZER                               0           317            15?           159           159            159           159          3333
LABOR                                  352           743            600           631           662            642           642         12904
TOTAL COSTS                         352           1101           759            790           821           800            BO0         16278
NET BENEFIT                            842           433           1063          1396          1446           1428           719         19390
COST/BEN WITHOUT PROJECT
RENEFIT                               1194          1534           1174          1174          1174           1154           787         19483
COSTS                                  352           352            352           352           352            352           352          7038
NET BENEFIT                            842          1182            8 822         822           822            802           435         12445
NET INC BENEFIT                          0          -749            241           574           624            626           284          6945
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.Q0  = 2370.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   61,3%
May 18, 1981



-  46 -                                                           ANNEX  1
Table 12
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow - Cocoa Rehabilitation  (2.3 ha)
(US$)
0            1            2            3            4            5             6          7-9        10-20       TOTALS
SOURCE OF FUNDS
SALES                             1194         1534         1822         2186         2267         2228          2228         2228         1520        35668
PROJECT SUBLOAN                      0          898            0            0             0            0            0            0            0          898
TOTAL SOURCE                   1194         2432          1822         2186         2267         2228         2228          2228         1520        36566
USE OF FUNDS
OPERATING COSTS                   352           104          759          790          821          800           800          800          800        15280
INVESTHENT                           0          998            0            0            0             0            0            0            0          998
NET FLOW BEFORE DEBT            352          1101          759          790          821          800           800          800          800        16278
'EBT SERVICE                         0            0            0            0            0             0            0            0            0            0
AMORTIZATION                        0            0            0          188          210          236           264            0            0          898
INTEREST                            0            0          108          108           85           59            31            0            0          392
COMMISSSION                         0            0            9            9            7             5            3            0            0           33
TOTAL DEBT SERV                   0             0          117          304          303          300          298             0            0         1322
TOTAL USE                       352         1101          876          1094         1124         1101         1098           800          800        17600
BALANCE WITH PROJECT
ANNUAL BALANCE                   842          1331          946         1091         1143         1127          1130         1428          719        18966
BALANCE WITHOUT PROJECT
SOURCE OF FUNIS                  1194          1534         1174         1174         1174         1154          1154         1154          787        19483
USE OF FUNDS                      352           352          352          352          352          352           352          352          352         7038
ANNUAL BALANCE                   842          1182          822          822          822          802           802          802          435        12445
NET INCREMENTAL BALANCE
ANNUAL BALANCE                      0          149          124          269          321          325           328          626          284         6521
January 4, 1981



-  47 -                                                 ANNEX  1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                               Table 13
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost/Benefit Analysis  - Cocoa Replanting  (2.3 ha)
(US$)
0           1            2            3             4            5            6            '          8-9        10-20      TOTALS
BENEFITS
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE             823         1058         1417         1255         1741         2706         3462         3581         3581         2443        49250
COSTS
COCOA SEEDLING                       0          286           36            0            0             0            0            0            0            0          322
SEEDLING TRANSPORTATION              0           26            3            0            0             0            0            0            0            0           29
FERTILIZER                           0          133          198          264          265          265          265          265           265          265         5092
LABOR                              259          855          574          528          611          600          704           756          652          652        13104
TOTAL COSTS                      259         1301          811          792          875          865          968         1020          917          917        18548
NET BENEFIT                        565         -243          605          463          865         1841         2493         2561         2665          1526       30702
COST/BEN WITHOUT PROJECT
BENEFIT                            823         1058          810          810          810          796          796          796           796          543        13437
COSTS                              259          259          259          259          259          259          259          259           259          259        5175
NET BENEFIT                        565          799          551          551          551          537          537          537           537          284         8262
NET INC BENEFIT                      0        -1042           54          -88          315         1304         1956          2024         2127         1242       22440
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0X = 6183.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   51.11
March 9, 1981



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow - Cocoa Replanting (2.3 ha)
(US$)
0           1            2           3            4            5           6            7            B           9           10       11-20       TOTALS
SOURCE OF FLiNDS
SALES                            823         1058         1417        1255         1741        2706         3462         3581        3581         3581         2443        2443        49250
PROJECT SUBLOAN                    0         1105          619         611            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0        2335
TOTAL SOURCE                   823         2163        2035         1866         1741        2706         3462         3581        3581         3581         2443        2443        51584
USE OF FUNDS
OPERATING COSTS                  259           72          124         114          875          865         968         1020          917         917          917          917       15954
INWESTIIENT                        0         1228          687         679            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0        2594
NET FLOW BEFORE DEBT           259         1301         811          792          875         865          968         1020          917         917          917          917       16548
DEBT SERVICE                       0            8            8           0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0           0   >
AIORTIZATION                      0            0            O           0            0            0         367          411          462         518          577            0        2335
INTEREST                          0            8          133         207          280         280          280          236          184         128           70            0        179
COlNISSSION                       0            0           11          17           23           23          23           20           15          11            6            0         150
TOTAL DEBT SERV                  0            0          144         224          304          304         670          666          662         657          653            0        4283
TOTAL USE                      259         1301          955        1016         1179         1168        1638         1686         1579        1574         1569          917       22831
ALANCE VIITH PROJECT
____________ _______
NNL    BALANCE                  565          863         1080         849          562         1537        1823         1895         2002        2007          874         1526       28753
BALANCE WITHOUT PROJECT
SOURCE OF FUNDS                  823         1058          810         810          810          796         796          796          796         796          543          543       13437
USE OF FUNDS                     259          259          259         259          259          259         25?          259          259         259          259          259        5175
ANNUAL BALANCE                  565          799          551         551          551          537         537          537          537         537          284          284        8262
ET INCREMENTAL BALANCE
IUAL BALANCE                      0           63          529         298           11         1000        1286         1358         1465        1470          589         1242       20491  
March 9, 1981



- 49  -                                     ANNEX  1
Table 15
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost/Benefit Analysis - Coffee Replanting (1.0 ha)
(US$)
0             1            2             3             4             5                      10-20        TOTALS
BENEFITS
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE                188           138          192           480          1280          1647          1647           1818       30323
COSTS
COFFEE PLANT                            0          437              5            0             0             0             0             0           442
SHADE TREES                             0             8            0             0             0             0             0             0             8
FERTILIZER                              0           144          198           288           288           288           288           288         5526
INSECTICIDE                             a             5           10            25            25            25            25            25          465
FUNGICIDE                               0             6            11           11            13            13            13            13          242
LABOR                                221           968           428           486           567           621           675           675        13194
TOTAL COSTS                        221          1567           651           810           893           947         1001          1001         19877
NET BENEFIT                          -32         -1430          -459          -330           387           700           646           817        10446
COST/BEN WITHOUT PROJECT
BENEFITS                              188           155          144           144           144           165           165           182         3410
COSTS                                221           221           221           221           221           221           221           221         4410
NET BENEFIT                           -32          -66           -76           -76           -76           -56           -56           -39        -1000
NET INC BENEFIT                         0        -1364          -383          -254           464           756           702           856        11446
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0X = 2064.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   24.21
March 9, 1981



-50  -ANNEX  1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                   Table 16
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow - Coffee Replanting (1.0 ha)
(US$)
0             1            2             3             4             5                          7             3             7        1-0          TOTALS
SOURCE OF FUNDS
SALES                               188           138           192           400          1280         1647          1647          1647          164?          1647         1818         3032;
PROJECT SUBLOAN                       0          1382           538           640             0             0            0             0             0             0             0         2to
TOTAL SOURCE                      188          1520          730          1120          1280          1647          1647          1647         1647          1647          1818         32882
USE OF FUNDS
OPERATING COSTS                    2.21            32            54            99          893           947          1001          1001          1001          1001         1001         17033
INVESTMENT                            0          1536           597           711             0             0            0             0             0             0)            0         22844
NET FLOW BEFORE DEBT              221          1567          651           810           893           947          1001          1001         1001          1001          1001         19877
DEBTISERVICE                          0             0             0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0             0             0
AMIORTIZATION                        0             8             0             0             0          402           451           507           568           632             0         2560
INTEREST                             0             0           166          230           307           307           259           202           141           770lth
COMISSSION                           0             0            14            19           26            26            22            17            12             6             0          141
TOTAL DEBT SERV                     0             0           100          250           333           735           731           726          7211          715             0          4309
TOTAL USE                         221          1567          831          1060          1225.         1681          1731          1726         17211         1716          1001         24266
BALANCE WITH PROJECT
ANNUAL BALANCE                     -32           -47          -101            60           55           -34           -84           -79           -74           -69          817          8616
BALANCE WITHOUT PROJECT
SOURCE OF FUNDS                     188           155           144           144           144          165           165           165           165           165           182         3410
USE OF FUNDS                        221           221           221          2121          221           221           221           221           221           221          221          4410i
ANNUAL BALANCE                     -32           -66           -76           -76          -76           -56           -56           -56           -56           -56          -39         -1000
NET INCREMIENTAL BALANCE
ANNUAL BALANCE                       0            18           -2            137          131            22-28                      -24           -19           -13          856          9616
March 9, 1981--



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmgate Prices (Financial and Economic Prices)
Price of Cocoa:                               1980           1981           1982           1985          1990
Financial Prices                         -(US cents/kg)--------------------------------
World Market Prices-/                     290            288            287            282           192
FOB Export Prices                         261            259            258           253            163
Export Tax and Commission                  50             50             50             48            13
Farm Gate Prices                          179            177            176           173            118
Economic Prices-/
Farm Gate Prices                          232            230            229           224            134
Price of Coffee:
Financial Prices
World Market Pricesl/                     362            305            282            320            350
FOB Export Prices                         311            254            231            269           299
Export Tax and Commissions                 70             50             39             54             65
Farm Gate Prices                          209            172            160            183           202
Economic Prices-/
Farm Gate Prices                          282            225            202            240           270
1/  Projected by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division.
21  Economic prices were arrived at by adjusting for shadow foreign exchange rate using a General
Conversion Factor of 0.80 and assuming 50% of foreign exchange component for any costs incurred
before export.
May 18, 1981



- 52 -
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                     ANNEX 1
Table 18
COCOA AND1 COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
(US $'OOO)
1            2            3             4            5             6            7             a            9            10           11       TOTALS
CASH INFLOW
IORJJ LOAN
ON-FARM DEVELOPMNT               4014          5762         3251          0765             0            0             0            0            0             0            0         14792
OTHER INVESTMENT                  908           679             0            0             0            0             0            0             0            0            0          1587
SUBTOTAL                       4923          6440         3251         1765             0             0            0             0            0             0            0        16379
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT              1720          2469         1393           757             0            0             0            0             0            0            0          6339
OTHER INVESTMENT                  389           291            0             0             0            0             0            0            0             0            0           680
SUBTOTAL                       2110         2760          2393           757            0             0            0             0            0             0            0         7020
INTEREST ON SUBLOANS
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                  0          688         1676          nil1         2465          2299         1912          1453          98            479           91         14264
OTHER INVESTMENT                     0          156          272           246          201           155           97            29            0             0             0         1156
SUBTOTAL                          0           844         1948         2457          2666         2455          2010          1482          989           479           91        154210
REPAYMENT OF SUBLOANS
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                  0            0          188           398         1371          3171         3739          3903         4367          3246          750        21131
OTHER INVESTMENT                     0            0          208           376          424           479          538           242            0             0            0          2267
SUBRTOTAL                         0             0          395           774         1795         3651          4277         4145          4367         3246           750        23399
TOTAL INF LOW                      7033         100-44        6987          5752         4461          6105         6286          5627         5356          3725          841         62217
CASH OIJTF1I-W
SUBLOAN DISBURSEMENT
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT              5735          8231         4644          2522             0            0             0            0             0            0             0       21132
OTHER INVESTMENT                 1298           969             0            0             0            0             0            0             0            0             0         2267
SUBTOTAL                       7033         9200          4644          2522            0             0            0             0            0             0            0        23399
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS                   0          422          974          1220          1332         1227          1004          741          494           240            46         7707
TOTAL OUTFLOW                       7033         9622         5617          3750          1332         1227          1004          741           494          240            46        31105
CASH BALANCE
ANNUAL                                 0          422          1370         2002          3128         4878          5282         4887         4862          3486           795        31112
CUMULATIVE                             0          422          1792         3794          6923        10801         17063        21969        26831         30316        31112
May  15,  19 81



-  53 -
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC                                                  Table  19
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(USs '000)
1           2            3            4           5                         7 7                               10-20       TOT;'
COCOA REHABILITATION
INCREHENTAL BENEFIT               0          843         2159         2739         2782        2782         2782         2782         2782         1664         7,955
INCREMENIAL COST                644          995          727          780          789         771          771          771          771          771       15507
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT              91          100           86           69           69            0           0            0            0            0         415
NET INC BENEFIT                -644         -152         1433         1959         1993        2011         2011         2011         2011          893       22452
COCOA REPLANTING
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT               0         1185         1896         2570        5250         8393         9897        10098        10098         6041      115835
INCREMENTAL COST               1344         1878         1306         1392        1471         1593         1775         1700         1584         1584       314o7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT             332          362          311          251         251             0           0            0            0            o        1507
NET INC BENEFIT               -1344         -693          590         1179         3779        6800         8122         8398         8514        4457        84368
COFFEE REPLANTING
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT             -52           85         1139         4444        9072         9720         9720         9720         9720       10935,      173853
INCREMENTAL COST               2664         3979         2167         2699        2997         3229         3354         3354         3354         3354       64696
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT             541          590          508          410          410            0           0            0            0            0        2459
NET INC BENEFIT               -2715        -3894        -1027         1745         6075        6491         6366         6366         6366         7581      109158
TOTAL PROJECT
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT             -52         2113         5195         9753        17104       20895        22399        22600        22600        18640      327647
INCREMENTAL COST               4652         6851         4200         4871        5257         5593         5901         5826         5710        5710       1116o9
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT             964         1052          905          730          730                        0            0            0            0        4381
NET INC BENEFIT               -4704        -4739          995         4882        11847       15301        16498        16774        16890        12930      215977
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0% = 8076.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 111,3%
March  9,  1981



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 20
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
----------- ____---------------  Benefits  ------------- -----------------------
Costs             B.INCT       UPF 10%      Up 2Q0'      UP 50%    DOWN IOZ.   DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C.INCT           52073.4      60925.8      69778.1      96335.3      43'21,0      34368.6       7811.5      41048,2      31204.4      22415.2
UP lO%          4842B.3      57280.7      66133.1      92690.2      39576.0      30723.6       4166.5      37403,2      27559.3      18770,1
UP 20X           44783.3      53635.7      62'468.1     85045.2      35930,9      2?078.6        521,4      33758.2      23914,3      15125.1
UP 50%           33848.2      42700.6      51552.9      78110.1      24995.8      16143.4    -10413.7       22823.0      12979.2       4190,0
DOWN 10%         55718.4      64570.8      73423.2      99980,3      46866.0       801,3.7     11456.5      44693.3      34849.4      26060.2
DOWN 20%         59363.5      68215.8      77068.2    103625.4       50511.1      41658.7      15101.6      48338.3      38494.4      29705.3
DOWN 5OZ         70298,6      79151.0      88003.3    114560 .5      61446.2      52593.8      26036.7      5973,.4      49429.6      40640,4
LAG 1 YEAR             -            -            -                         -            -            -      45425.5      35581.b6     26792,5
LAG 2 YEARS            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -      39489.9      30700.7
LAG 3 YEARS            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -      34190.3
Internal Rates of Return
--------------------------------Benefits -----------------------------------
Costs             B. INCT      UFP IO       UP 20'       UP 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 220%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS,
C.INCT            58.580       64.607       70.408       86.810       52.276       A'.S19       21,762       39.619       29,779       23.507
Up 10%            52.863       5b.580       64.069       79.515       46.860       40,489       17.073       36,014       27.062       21,2'0
UP 20%            47.883       53,349       58.580,      73,238       42.123       35.975       12'.t2       32.792       24.598       19.218
UP 50X            35.975       40,928       45.619       58.58a       30.60C,      24.904       -1.995       24.736       18.267       12.844
IDOWN 10%         65.262       71,671       77.860       95.436       58,580       51.556       26.895       .3.712       32.814       25.9Wu
DOWN 20%          73,238       80,132       86.810      105.862       66.076       5R,580       32,713       48.440       36.263       28.755
DOWN 50%         111,962      121.522      130.874      157.998      102.14       9?2.020       58.580       69.325       50.846       40.15'
LAG 1 YEAR             -            -            -            -            -            -            -       58.572       39.572       2'9,664
LAG 2 YEARS            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -       58.558       39.505
LAG 3 YEARS            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -       59' 535
March  9,  1981



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Bank (BA)
1.        BA was established as an autonomous Government agency in 1963 and
is the single most important institutional lender for agricultural production
and investment in the country. BA is administered by a Board of Directors,
chaired by a General Administrator. Board membership includes the CB Governor,
the Secretary of Agriculture, the Director of IAD, the Director of INESPRE,
and two persons appointed by Presidential Decree. The day-to-day management
is in the hands of the General Administrator and a Deputy General Administrator.
2.        BA consists of seven departments:  Programing, Credit Operation,
Loan Recovery, Controller, Personnel, Administrative Services and Public
Relations. BA operates through a network of 28 branch offices. These offices
are located in rural communities and enjoy a certain degree of autonomy. To
complement the branch office network, a system of satellite offices was also
established under a USAID Agriculture Sector Project in early 1979 to bring
credit facilities closer to the farmer, cut the length of administrative
procedures associated with lending, decrease the borrowing cost for BA's
clients, and increase the volume of lending to small-scale farmers.
3.        Each of the satellite offices, 42 in all, is located in the local
SEA office and is staffed by a BA credit agent, an office assistant, and an
SEA extension agent, who assist small-scale farmers in developing and process-
ing loan requests and also supervise loan disbursements and collections. The
BA's credit brigades are an integral part of the satellite system. The staff
of each of these brigades consists of a loan officer, a cashier and a security
officer. The results of the new system are remarkable: during the system's
first four months of operation, satellite offices received 6,310 loan requests
(31% of which were new and predominantly from small-scale farmers), amounting
to US$9 million, and the credit brigades formalized 4,383 of these loans,
amounting to US$6 million.
4.        BA has a staff of 1,515, about 70% located in the rural offices.
Among the 394 credit agents working in the field, 33 are college-trained
agronomists, 231 are agricultural school graduates, and 130 are vocational
school graduates. BA has provided 48 three-week training courses for 1,321
employees, and initiated a study regarding job classifications to establish
a personnel administration system more suitable to BA's needs than the one in
use. BA has 309 vehicles, including 166 motorcycles, but about 25% of the
total are more than five years old and need to be replaced.
5.        BA has concentrated on extending loans for agricultural production
during the last 15 years and has in recent years increased emphasis on assist-
ing small- and medium-size farmers. Tables 1 and 2 show that 79% of the loans



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
and 28% of the loan amount were below US$2,000 in 1978, and that 81% of the
loans and 40% of the loan amount went to borrowers who owned less than 6 ha.
BA's credit policies have been established in accordance with the agreements
reached with external financing agencies or with the Government, and, at the
end of 1979, it had 22 different lines of credit. Consolidation of these
programs has proved to be difficult in view of the lack of coordination and
different requirements imposed by each of the various agencies involved.
6.        BA extends its loans directly to individual farmers, to collective
IAD settlements, or to cooperatives. BA charged a flat interest rate of 8%
until mid-1978, but increased it thereafter to 9% for loans below US$2,000
and to 11% for loans above US$2,000. In addition, a one-time transaction fee
of 1% was charged for loans above US$2,000. A 1% annual commission was also
introduced during 1980 which is reduced to 0.5% for group borrowers. Loans
made with FIDE funds carry a flat interest rate of 9%, in accordance with FIDE
regulations. On-lending rates, however, are being reviewed by the Government.
About 70% of lending volume is short term, usually extended for a period which
covers the production and marketing cycle, averaging nine months. Medium-term
lending from one to four years was about 16% of BA's lending program of the
past two years, while long-term loans up to 10 years accounted for about 14%.
7.        The policy on collateral is that, for short-term production loans,
BA requires a chattel mortgage on the expected crop and it lends an amount
equivalent to 70% to 80% of such value. In the case of longer term on-farm
development loans, it usually lends an amount equivalent to about 50% of the
assessed value of the borrower's mortgaged property and the borrower con-
tributes an amount equivalent to 10% to 20% of the investment costs according
to the size of the farm and the amount of the loan. However, the collateral
does not constitute a fundamental requirement and the decision to approve a
loan depends more on the repayment capacity, as well as the character, entre-
preneur capacity, financial situation and experience of the borrower.
8.        BA's portfolio has grown rapidly over the past five years as indi-
cated by the growth in loan commitments (Table 3), which increased from US$78
million in 1975 to US$127 million in 1979, an increase of 50% in real terms.
BA finances basically agricultural crops and livestock products (Table 4) such
as rice, 41% in 1978; beef and dairy products, 16%; coffee, 10%; and tobacco,
6%. Lending to cocoa producers experienced a substantial increase from less
than US$1.0 million in 1976 to US$2.7 million (2% of the total) in 1979. The
bank's lending operations are divided into programs representing its own
portfolio, with a balance of US$158.5 million as of December 31, 1979, and a
separate trust portfolio administered on behalf of the Government with US$17.5
million outstanding at the end of 1979.
9.        BA's lending operations are decentralized to allow more flexibility
and authority at the branch level. After the loan application is prepared by
a credit agent or extension agent, it is submitted to the local Credit
Committee of each branch office, consisting of the Branch Manager, Sub-Manager
of Administration, and Sub-Manager of Credit Operation. This committee can



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
approve loans up to US$40,000, while those above US$40,000 are transmitted
to Headquarters, where the Central Credit Committee deals with those up to
US$75,000. Larger loans must be approved by the Board of Directors. The
maximum is US$250,000. Upon approval of the loan, a loan agreement is signed,
normally at a satellite office, and disbursements are determined on the basis
of the program established. Due to BA's efforts to improve efficiency, the
average loan processing time from application to formalization was reduced
from 66 days in 1973 to 26 days in 1979.
10.       Each loan is assigned to a credit agent for supervision.  The
collection unit in each branch office maintains daily collections and dues
schedules and organizes the supervision visits. Credit agents visit clients
on the due date to make sure that they make corresponding payments to the
branch or satellite office. BA has been improving its loan recovery perfor-
mance although, as of December 31, 1979, overdue loans amounted to US$31.9
million (18% of the total loan portfolio), of which 45% was overdue more than
two years. The proportion of overdue accounts within the total portfolio
decreased substantially during the 1974-79 period, from 29% to 18%, which is
caused partly by the creation in September 1978 of a Loan Recovery Department,
actively pursuing a debt recovery program and writing off bad debts, amounting
to US$2.3 million (it should be noted, however, that the overdue amount is
underestimated as it includes only loans, the service on which is overdue in
its entirety). The bad debt provision is acceptable, as it amounted to
US$17.2 million as of December 31, 1979, or about 54% of all past-due loans,
taking into account the much larger value of collateral and the significant
portion of the loan portfolio for which the Government is responsible in
respect of any uncollected debt.
11.       BA's accounts are generally well kept and are processed electroni-
cally by BA's Data Processing Center, which operates an IBM 370 Model 115.
All the operating units in BA report daily to the General Accounting Section.
However, the large number of programs managed by BA requires that the system
be improved, especially in the field of loan recovery and portfolio management.
The internal auditor supervises all of BA's operations, and the external audit
is done by the Superintendencia de Bancos and by a private auditing firm.
The quality of the external audit, which follows guidelines established by
IDB, is satisfactory.
12.       Tables 5 and 6 show BA's financial position.  As can be seen, BA is
an agricultural development fund, rather than a full service bank, obtaining
resources from the Government, international financing institutions, and the
sale of bonds. The major sources of funds as of December 31, 1979 were the
Government and official institutions: (a) short-term loans from CB in the
form of advances and discounts, with rates of interest ranging from 3.5% to
5.5%, amounting to US$51.2 million; (b) FIDE loans from CB at up to 5.5%
interest rate, amounting to US$10.4 million; (c) various funds being admin-
istered for SEA (US$24.2 million), mostly in USAID projects, for IAD (US$1.9
million) under three USAID projects and for the Government (US$1.4 million);
and (d) others amounting to US$0.7 million. These accounts represented 47%



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
of the total resources of BA at the end of 1979. The second largest resource
was BA's own equity, amounting to US$85.3 million (or 45% of the total funds),
which includes capital, the special Government contribution and accumulated
surplus. The third source of funds consists of loans from international
institutions: IDB Loan 41/TF-DR, with an interest rate of 1.25% and service
charge of 0.75% with US$780,000 outstanding, and USAID's Loan 517-L-010, at an
interest rate of 2.5% with US$7.6 million outstanding, both as of December 31,
1979. BA's debt/equity ratio has been satisfactory: 1.38/1.00 at the end of
1979.
13.       Since 1978, BA's lending potential and financial standing have been
greatly enhanced by the following Government efforts: (a) capitalization of
two Integrated Agricultural Development Programs (PIDAGRO I and II) funds from
IDB loans and Government counterpart funds; (b) use of the proceeds of a US$25
million Government bond issue to capitalize a US$22 million debt that BA had
with CB; (c) refinancing by CB of US$44 million; and (iv) transfer of the
Special Agricultural Development Fund (FEDA) loans, amounting to US$7.0
million and financed by IDB, from BA to the Government.
14.       Interest receipts were reported in 1979 at 8.3% of loan portfolio
while expenses amounted to 9.1%, leaving a loss on lending operations of
0.8%. The income statement, however (Table 6), shows a profit because of
non-operational income, including the Government's compensation for BA's
operating losses in some agricultural projects. Although operating results
indicate that BA did not reach the break-even point, the 1979 performance
showed a remarkable improvement over previous years, as a result of a decrease
in financial costs due to the capitalization program of 1978 and an increase
in interest receipts due to the interest rate increase. The level of operat-
ing costs in general is acceptable, taking into account BA's low financial
costs. Although BA enjoyed access to extremely low-cost funds, with interest
rates ranging between 2% and 5.5%, this advantage was partially eliminated by
the low financial income, as a result of the low interest rates charged by BA
on its loans. To improve the situation, increased interest rates and fees,
including higher on-lending rates for loans refinanced by FIDE, are being
considered by BA and the CB.
June 1, 1981



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classification of Loans of the Agricultural Bank by Loan Amount
1974           1975           1976           1977     1     1978     I     1974-7n     I
-______________ Number of Loans      ----- ---------------
1 - 2,000           40,747   90    44,976   83    44,311   83    42,724   83    41,009   79      42,753    84
2,001 - 20,000       4,130    9     8,694   16     8,423   16     8,0411  16     9,923   19       7,842    15
20,001 or more         290    1       300    1       758    1       307    1       641    2          459     1       ¢
Total             45,167  100    53,970  100    539492  100    51,072  100    51,573  100       51,054   100
--------Value of Loans (US$'000)--------------------------
1 - 2,000           24,143   35    27,781   35    29,338   36    28,719   34    33,281   28       28,652    34
2,001 --20,000      20,881   31    23,956   31    34,965   43    34,505   41    44,474   40       31,756    37
20,001 or more      22,986   34    26,297   34    17,178   21    20,277   25   34,152   32       24,178    29
Total             68,010  100    78,034  100    81,481  100    83,501  100   111,907  100       84,586   100
May 18, 1981



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Classification of Loans of the Agricultural Bank by Size of Holding 1978
Number of Loans                 Amount of Loans
Area                             Quantity         %              Value            %
(ha)                                                          (US$'000)
UP to 6.25                        41,820         81.1             44,241         39.5
6.26 to 62.5                      7,277         14.1             33,656         30.1
62.6 to 625.0                       842          1.7             24,375         21.8
Above  625.1                          9           -                  191          0.2
Unclassified                       1,625          3.1              9,444          8.4
Total                            51,573        100.0            111,907        100.0
May 18, 1981



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Bank Lending by Status of Loans, Category of Lending and Farm Size
(US$'000)
1975-1979
Status of Loans           1975                  1976                 1977                 1978                  1979
Committed               78,003                81,501               83,500              111,908              150,214
Disbursed               63,829                67,998               72,523               92,146               107,184
Recoveries              43,192                52,267               54,051               64,190                75,029
%                    %                    %                     x                    e 
Category
Agricultural Crops      56,339      72        63,999     79        66,670      77       91,141      82       101,840      80
Livestock               19,171      25        15,664     19        14,793      18       17,582      16        22,914      18
Others                   2,493       3         1,338      2         2,037       5         3,185      2        25,460       2
Total              78,003    100        81,501    100         83,500    100       111,908    100        150,214    100
Farm Size
Up to 7 ha              46,022      59        49,462     61        49,265      59       44,240      40        53,466      42
7-67 ha                 19,500      25       21,898      27        23,380     28        33,656      30        40,736     32
Over 67 ha              12,480      16        10,141     12        10,855      13       34,012      30        33,098      26
Total              78,00     100        81,501    100         83,500    100       111,908    100       127,300    100
May 18, 1981
mL.x



- 62 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Bank Lending by Products
(US$'000)
Products                        1975            1976             1977            1978
Rice                          34,692          37,181           32,243          45,450
Beef and dairy                19,171          15,665           14,793          17,582
Coffee                         3,425           4,597            9,677          11,660
Tobacco                        2,462           3,716            6,876           6,298
Red beaas                      1,486           2,671            3,138           5,027
Industrial tomatoes              436           1,617              722           2,285
Plantains                      1,938           1,612            2,370           4,138
Yucca                          1,378           1,699            1,158           1,703
Horticulture                   1,366           1,987            2,825           2,419
Poultry                        2,149           1,572            1,546           2,628
Others                         9,531           9,169            8,153          12,716
Total              78,034          81,481           83,501         111,906
Source: "Prestamos formalizados al sector agropecuario 1975-78,"
August 1979.
May 18, 1981



- 63 -                            ANNEX 2
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet of ARricultural Bank
(US$)
ASSETS                                            1978             1977            1976
Cash and Banks                                  7,856,279        9,686,064      13,863,874
Short- Medium- and Long-term Portfolio        136,551,688      130,275,800    112,279,467
Provision for Bad Debts                       (21,464,255)    (19,535,905)   (20,848,385)
Agrarian Reform and Other Government           70,332,572       58,505,369      54,893,223
Other                                           4,543,247        3,981,386       3,960,805
Total Assets                       197,819,531      182,912,714    164,148,984
LIABILITIES
Deposits                                          162,692          153,833         144,250
Short- and Long-term Debit                     79,099,987       71,166,644      58,211,910
Bonds                                             607,000        2,999,000       2,999,000
Other                                          24,207,871        5,572,243       4,736,901
Trust Funds                                    14,429,491       36,257,517      34,427,498
Total Outside Liabilities           118,507,041     116,149,237    100,519,559
Paid in Capital                                50,000,000       50,000,000      50,000,000
Governnent Fund                                14,794,952        2,435,014       2,364,006
Legal Reserves                                 11,371,787       11,308,743       8,287,472
Retained Earnings                               3,145,751        3,019,720       2,977,947
Subtotal                            79,312,490       66,763,477      63,629,425
Total Liabilities                  197,819,531      182,912,714    164,148,984
May 18, 1981



-64-                            ANNEX 2
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Statement of Agricultural Bank
(US$)
1979                 1978
INCOME
Interest                                11,498,599            8,030,462
Government Refunds                         814,922            2,665,759
Long-term Deposits                          16,017               92,814
Dues and Fees                            1,350,556            1,124,752
Sale^ Agriproduct                           43,418              314,091
Others                                     657,728            1,433,587
Total:                      14,381,240           13,661,465
EXPENDITURES
Salaries-                                6,715,023            5,572,154
General Administration                   2,911,270            2,566,682
Loan Write-offs                          1,900,000            2,000,000
Financial Costs                          2,726,537            3,348,900
Total:                      14,252,830           13,487,736
Net Profit                                 128,410              173,729
May 18, 1981



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Republica Dominicana, Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura:
Proyecto de Rehabilitacion de Cultivos Permanentes,
Santo Domingo, D.N. Mayo 1980
2.   SEA:  Plan de Implementacion del Programa Prestamo
Num. 517-T-034
3.   SEA:  Subsecretaria Tecnica de Planificacion Sectorial
Agropecuaria, Departamento de Coordinacion de Programas
y Recursos Externos: Informe Seguimiento del Prestamo
Num. 517-T-034 Desde su Inicio Hasta el 30 de Junio de
1980, Santo Domingo, D.N., 15 de Agosto de 1980.
4.   SEA:  Subsecretaria Tecnica de Planificacion Sectorial
Agropecuaria, Departamento de Control y Evaluacion
de la Ejecucion: Evaluacion de Ejecucion del Programa
de Prestamo  517-T-034 (Preliminar), Santo Domingo,
D.N., 27 de Octubre 1980.



I e



7O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~IIBRD 15282
72° 7 DOMINICAN             REPUBLIC                                                         JANUARY 1981
PUERTO PLATACOCOA AND COFFEE                                                                                  \   AAA
-~ Afanzom//,                                                                                                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        I1  7-'! 2 _pMuLCD LAN
JAMAICA  HAITI    P..,bro R-
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E AVDRNCaAUA
Ab    A   N A                                                                                  i   E                                                                                  Panm' .   °"
COSTA RIC                    IT0A
PANAMA ,   La
Ccbo Rolo   \ tX  / f   EnriQudlo   WL     MlLESot       ;0A 20                TA 30              SANTOE  A NEA AFECTE  BY                                                    SoRIAN  DAVIDI IRNOATON  RAIROAD
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D MACOR:                                                                         '                      P oORTS      no
Al.  Ald. o VC6,                            RAAOAc- god Lpaan
)<7                                                                     *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~EXISTING COCAURODUCINS   AREA  RENOVATION)BUNDRIE
d. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 L-Mw
C,.i d. C.b-6  S ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~___   OOAAEA  FECE  B   URIAE  AI
't"11,       kKIO EER0                      l i A5.                                .   CO O   RE S A FE T D BY A T RN D    UN    SI    N   Y  U RCA E D VI          EC N AYOO D
S.- d. Ag ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     n    AORAIPOT
C- -~~    -   Onedo  /-
*    EISIN
Rot,                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL   BOUNDARIES LA    OMAN
72~~~~~~~~       T1                                                               0   TO RE INSTALLED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RB.dY.
"P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



