Document of
The World Bank                      FL  COP 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3022-D0
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 3, 1981l
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorfiztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Accounts are expressed in Dominican
Pesos (RD$) and US Dollars (US$)
US$1.00   =   RD$1.00
RD$1.00   =   US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
*                                     Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BA       - Agricultural Bank
(Banco Agricola)
BC       -  Central Bank
(Banco Central)
CEA      -  State Sugar Council
(Consejo Estatal del Azucar)
CEDOPEX  -  Export Promotion Center
(Centro Dominicano de Promocion de Exportaciones)
DGCP     -  Office of Price Control
(Direccion General de Control de Precios)
FIDE     -  Fund for Economic Development
(Fondo de Inversiones para el Desarrollo Economico)
IAD      - Agrarian Reform Institute
(Instituto Agrario Dominicano)
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IICA     -  Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences
(Instituto Inter-Americano de Ciencias Agricolas)
INDECOOP -  Development Institute for Cooperative Credit
(Instituto de Desarrollo de Credito Cooperativo)
INDRHI   -  National Water Resource Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos)
INESPRE  -  National Price Stabilization Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Estabilizacion de Precios)
PIDAGRO  -  Integrated Agricultural Development Program
(Programa Integrado de Desarrollo Agricola)
SEA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
(Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura)
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Dominican Republic
Beneficiary:         Banco Agricola (BA)
Amount:              US$24 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including a grace period of four
years, with interest rate at 9.6 percent per annum. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would make available US$22.5 million equiva-
lent of the proceeds of the loan to BA as a capital
contribution. BA would onlend these funds on terms of
up to ten years, including up to four years' grace, at
interest rates of 11 percent per annum for loans of less
than US$2,000 to farmers with less than 2 ha, and at 12
percent per annum plus one percent per annum of commission
for other cocoa and coffee loans. BA's terms and condi-
tions of cocoa and coffee subloans, would be reviewed
annually by the Borrower and the Bank.
Description:         The proposed project would support Government objectives
of increasing productivity and incomes of small-scale
coffee and cocoa producers, and of increasing production
and exports of these commodities. These objectives would
be achieved by providing farmers with technical assistance
and credit to finance on-farm development plans. The
project would finance over a two-year commitment period
and a four-year disbursement period, (a) rehabilitation
of about 4,600 ha. of cocoa plantings distributed among
2,000 farmers; (b) replanting of about 6,400 ha. of cocoa
plantings among 2,800 farms; (c) replanting of about 5,000
ha of coffee distributed among 5,000 farms; (d) provision
of 1,000 cocoa fermentation boxes and 300 sun-drying
facilities to cocoa farmers and of about 4,000 depulping
machines to coffee farmers, (e) establisment of 22 cocoa
nurseries and 52 coffee nurseries by the Ministry of
Agriculture (SEA) and about 520 private coffee nurseries;
(f) reinforcement of the support services of SEA and BA;
and (g) monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risk:                Some coffee areas of the Western Hemisphere have been
severely affected by leaf rust, a fungus disease to which
the Caturra variety to be used under the project is
susceptible. Importation of coffee plants has been
forbidden by the Dominican Authorities, but there is a
risk that the disease can be carried by spores over long
distances and could reach the island. While resistant
varieties do exist and are grown in the country, no
variety has been developed which combines leaf rust
resistance with high quality and productivity. The
renovation program offers the best protection currently
available against this risk.
Estimated Costs:    Item                           ----- US$ thousands ------
Local     Foreign    Total
On-farm Development         17,680       5,850      23,530
Processing Facilities          731       1,269       2,000
Nursery Development            444         224         668
Technical Assistance         1,816       1,105       2,921
Total Baseline Cost         20,671       8,448      29,119
Price contingencies          8,636       2,245      10,881
Total Cost                  29,307     10,693      40,000
Financing Plan:                                  US$ million         Percentage
Bank Loan                      24.0               60%
Covernment                     12.4               31%
Beneficiaries                   3.6                 9%
40.0              100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:   IBRD/FY                  ------------US$--------------
1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                5.4      9.6      6.0     3.0
Cummulative           5.4    15.0    21.0    24.0
Rate of Return:      61 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report 3379-DO dated June 1, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$24 million to help finance
a Cocoa and Coffee Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including a four year grace period, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum. Up to US$22.5 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan, and the
project's counterpart funds would be passed-on to Banco Agricola (BA) as a
capital contribution. BA would provide credit to coffee and cocoa farmers, on
terms of up to 10 years, including up to four years' grace period, with interest
rates of 11 percent per annum for sub-loans of less than RD$2,000 to farmers
owning less than 2 ha; and of 12 percent per annum plus 1 percent per annum of
administrative fees for other sub-loans. BA's terms and conditions of cocoa
and coffee subloans would be reviewed annually by the Borrower and the Bank.
The foreign exchange risk of the loan would be borne by the Government of the
Dominican Republic.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report "Economic Memorandum on the Dominican
Republic", (Report No. 3446-DO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 27, 1981. Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican Republic experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. This growth reflected favora-
ble terms of trade as world sugar prices rose, development of the country's
mineral resources (mainly ferronickel) and of its tourism potential, and high
levels of private and public investment, the former spurred by generous
fiscal incentives to industry.
4.         By the mid-1970's, the traditional agricultural exports faced
external demand constraints while manufacturing, oriented mainly to domestic
consumption, became increasingly constrained by the small size of the market.
Moreover, the strategy of import substitution combined with price controls
on agricultural products not only limited export diversification but also
hampered food crop growth.  As a consequence, the average annual GDP growth
rate fell to 4.8 percent between 1974 and 1978.
5.        During the 1968-78 period, the Government combined a cautious fiscal
policy with a slightly expansive monetary policy. Highly favorable to private
sector investment, these policies also allowed public savings to finance, on
average, 98.5 percent of Central Government capital expenditures. Most of
the modest foreign borrowing was on concessionary terms. Although this



- 2 -
performance was impressive, the severe constraint on current outlays limited
the Government's ability to operate and maintain the country's economic
and social infrastructure as well as to attract and retain capable personnel
in Government service. Furthermore, rapidly growing and unconstrained imports
and limited external borrowing resulted in generally low levels of foreign
reserves. Finally, a highly centralized public administration hindered the
development of efficient public services.
6.        In spite of past rapid economic growth, a large segment of the
population remains poor. High infant mortality, widespread endemic diseases
and malnutrition affect many Dominicans; almost half live in absolute
poverty. Public health services are insufficient even by Caribbean standards,
and the orientation of medicine is curative rather than preventive. Educa-
tional services have been equally deficient. Only two-thirds of Dominican
adults are literate. Open urban unemployment was estimated at about one fifth
of the work force in 1979; underemployment is also high and growing both in
rural and urban sectors.
7.        Economic growth during 1979 and 1980, though modest by 1968-74
standards, was still significant. GDP rose by 4.8 percent in 1979 despite
the destructive impact of two hurricanes, while in 1980 GDP increased by 5.4
percent (2.4 percent per capita). Export growth explains the increase in GDP
in 1979, while domestic expenditure expansion fueled economic activity during
1980. The recovery of sugar, coffee, tobacco and ferronickel exports in
1979 compensated for the modest growth in most other sectors. The good export
performance and increasing public investment would have had a greater impact
if hurricanes during the second half of the year had not limited the expan-
sionary impact of expenditures on real growth. In 1980, the fall in exports
as a consequence of the hurricanes was largely compensated by a significant
increase in consumption -- public and private -- and in investment. The
industrial sector, transport and electricity recovered quickly from serious
damages suffered in 1979. Mining, on the other hand, suffered a serious
setback in 1980, as ferronickel, silver, and bauxite production was reduced.
Only gold production rose moderately.
8.        Since 1978, a departure from previous years' conservative fiscal
trends became apparent as the overall deficit of the Central Government
widened, from 2 percent in 1978 to 6.4 percent in 1979, although it fell
to 2.6 percent in 1980.  As a result of badly needed increases in current
expenditures while current revenues were lagging, Central Government savings
deteriorated from an average of 6.7 percent of GDP during 1975-78 to 1.6
percent in 1979 and 2.4 percent in 1980. Wages of public sector employees
were increased substantially, new employees were hired, and substantial
unforeseen hurricane-related outlays were incurred. Public investment rose
substantially in 1979 to meet reconstruction needs but had to be sharply
curtailed by mid-1980, in an effort to keep the 1980 deficit at a level of
about half that of the preceding year. While past Central Government deficits
were small and were almost exclusively financed by concessionary foreign
loans, recent sizeable deficits have been financed predominantly by external
borrowing, including loans from commercial banks.



9.        During 1978-80, the Dominican Republic's balance of payments
recorded substantial overall deficits. External financing in excess of the
direct foreign exchange requirements of the projects would be useful in
reducing the problems of managing the economy with very inadequate interna-
tional reserves. As measured by the change in net international reserves, the
deficit averaged US$91.5 million in 1978-79 and increased in 1980 to US$118
million. Developments in 1979 were dominated by increases in both the trade
and service deficits, continuing a virtually uninterrupted deterioration which
e      has characterized these accounts since 1976.  Tnis trend continued into 1980
despite a substantial improvement in sugar prices. While the volume of
petroleum imports fell in 1980, its value increased by 59 percent; by 1980 the
*       oil import bill was 109 percent of the sugar export value, against 24 percent
in 1973. An expansive fiscal policy during 1979-80 also fueled the demand for
imports. Although increasing use is being made of a parallel market where the
Dominican Peso is sold at a discount of about 25 percent, its impact on
capital flows remains unknown. The net private capital outflow in the balance
of payments latelv reflects lower foreign investment, the acquisition by the
Government of the foreign interest in a silver/gold mining company, and a
growing differential between domestic and world market interest rates.
10.       Inflation, which was minimal in the 1960s--less than 1 percent
per year--accelerated in the 1970s to an average annual rate of 10 percent
between 1970 and 1978. The Consumer Price Index rose 9.2 percent in 1979 and
10 percent in 1980 a!. The rapid rise in 1980 reflects soaring food prices
after the hurricanes, and recent increases in gasoline prices, electricity
rates and wages.
11.       The Government which took office in August 1978 proposed to adopt
measures to strengthen the balance of payments, increase public investment,
improve public finances, stimulate export growth and eliminate price distor-
tions unfavorable to agriculture and employment creation. An Export Promo-
tion Law has been adopted providing incentives to non-traditional exports.
Congress is considering legislation allowing special incentives for agro-
industrial development. Imports of capital goods and some intermediate goods
have been transferred to the parallel market and prior deposits of 100 percent
are require_. oz. -everal imported items. To improve the savings and financial
situation if the p,blic sector, the Government is seeking to strengthen the
fiscal si Luation b- reducing revenue earmarking and improving tax administra-
tion. Its attemptp to introduce new sources of taxation have met strong
resistance in -ingress. The tariff structure and the income tax system are
being simplified and enforced. Attention has also been given to non-tax
revenues, specifically to the rates and prices charged by public agencies,
e.g., electricity. The Authorities are making an effort to improve efficiency
by strengthening the Planning Agency as well as the planning units of key
departments such as the Ministry of Agriculture.  The import-substitution
industrial policies of the past are being reassessed. Agrarian reform legis-
lation relating to publicly irrigated land has been streamlined. The Govern-
ment prepared a Three Year Public Investment Program (1980-82),  which
envisages improved services to the poor, especially in the areas of health,
a/   Preliminary estimate for 1980.



-4-
education and agricultural services. The improved planning process is also
expected to result in the preparation of more development projects for
external assistance.
12.       The financing of the 1980-82 public investment program envisages
equal shares for internal and external financing. Some 80 percent of internal
resources are expected from public sector savings and the remainder from
private sector savings. The flow of disbursements from multilateral sources
is expected to grow larger over time. Recent experience suggests that further
attention to the improvement of project planning and implementation capability
will be indispensable to the success of the program. The feasibility of the
program will require measures to increase public savings, stimulate private
savings and accelerate project implementation in the public sector so as to
trigger the projected level of disbursements by multilateral financial
institutions.
13.       As of end-December 1980, the net reserves of the Central Bank were
negative by US$403 million while the level of gross reserves represented less
than two months' merchandise imports. The level of public external debt in
relation to GDP--15.2 percent at the end of 1979--and the debt/service ratio--
9.3 percent in 1979--were not high in comparison to other developing countries.
Given the favorable short-term outlook for world sugar prices and for domestic
sugar production, it is likely that the balance-of-payments will improve in
1981. The country's future borrowing requirements will, however, be large,
and its continued creditworthiness will require measures to increase domestic
savings and diversify the country's exports. As we continue the dialogue with
the Government on economic policy, we will be monitoring closely the Govern-
ment's response to the challenges it faces.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       The Bank has to-date made fourteen loans and credits to the Dominican
Republic totalling US$258.1 million, including three loans and two credits
totalling US$64.1 million which have been fully disbursed. Ongoing operations
include one credit and one loan for irrigation, one loan for population and
rural health, one loan for rural primary education, two loans for tourism
development, and two loans for road reconstruction. A loan for the rehabili-
tation of the State-owned sugar industry, approved by the Executive Directors
in September 1979, is not yet effective.
15.       Project execution has been generally slow and has suffered from
cumbersome ratification procedures in the Dominican Republic, a difficult
fiscal situation, which resulted in inadequate availability of local counter-
part funds, and administrative weaknesses of several agencies. The Government
has taken actions designed to improve general project execution. The 1981
budget provides adequate counterpart funds for all Bank financed projects,
but timely release of funds remains a critical aspect. Recent improvements in
project management of some projects are expected to result in better execution.



16.       In connection with the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, for which
a US$35 million Bank loan was approved in 1979, the State Sugar Industry
(CEA) entered into a cofinancing agreement with a private foreign bank
syndicate for US$90 million of which US$20 million were to finance the
project, and US$70 million were intended to improve CEA's debt profile.
After prolonged delays, the cofinancing loan from private foreign banks was
rejected by Congress in November 1980. Congress may approve a reduced US$20
million private bank co-financing loan, directly linked to the investment
project.  The Government and CEA are considering measures which involve
taxation, dividend policy and the price of sugar in the domestic market to
strengthen CEA's financial condition. A decision by the Government on the
adoption of the above measures is expected by end-June, 1981.
17.       IFC has made three investments in the Dominican Republic.  The
first, an investment in a cement plant approved in 1974, was re-financed in
early 1981, and additional equity was also provided. The second, a line of
credit for small and medium scale industry approved in 1978, was cancelled
in 1980 with the operation fully undisbursed. A third investment to help
establish a poultry breeder farm, was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 4, 1980. However, this commitment was not signed and is now in the
process of cancellation. Other projects are now under consideration by IFC.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Bank lending to the Dominican Republic continues to assist those
sectors in which a special contribution can be made to strengthen the balance-
of-payments, improve social services to the lower income groups, particularly
in rural areas, and provide institutional strengthening. The project under
consideration would support government efforts to increase productivity
and exports of coffee and cocoa production, which is carried out predominantly
by small farmers. Other projects under active consideration include a first
hydroelectric project and a coal handling facility project which would support
the Government's efforts to reduce dependency on oil imports for electricity
production; a low-income sites and services project in Santo Domingo; a third
education project which would continue the Bank's role in rural primary
education; and a second rural health and population project.
19.       During the 1970-77 period, external lending to the Dominican
Republic, predominantly from USAID, IDB and the Bank, was modest, totalling
US$335 million. IDB's assistance concentrated on irrigation and multipurpose
dams. USAID concentrated on agriculture, education, health, and PL480 assist-
ance.  The Government which took office in 1978 has improved planning and
project preparation capability and has sought increased assistance from
development agencies. In the last two years, IDB's lending has expanded
considerably, and has concentrated on agriculture including improvements to
agrarian reform settlements, industry, and multipurpose dams. U.S. long-term
assistance, in addition to PL480 assistance, has concentrated mostly on
agriculture, education and health. Future IDB assistance is expected to
include agriculture, potable water, road transport, power and education.
USAID assistance is expected to emphasize non-traditional energy resource
development, agricultural development programs, and rural health and nutrition.



-6-
20.       The Bank Group's share of the Dominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 6 percent at the end of 1979,
and the Bank Group's share of public external debt service was estimated at
3.8 percent at the end of 1979. Its share of outstanding public debt would
rise to 15 percent in 1985, while its share of external public debt service
would increase to about 6.8 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Agriculture remains one of the most important sectors in the
economy of the Dominican Republic, in terms of output, exports and employment,
although its share in GDP decreased from 30 percent in 1960-62, to about 18
percent in 1977-79. Agricultural products accounted for about 69 percent of
total exports during the 1977-78 period, with sugar and derivatives, coffee,
cocoa and tobacco as the major commodities. About 40 percent of the economic-
ally active population is employed in agriculture, compared to about 11 per-
cent in the industrial sector. During the past 20 years, urban population
has grown at an average annual rate of 5.6 percent, while rural population
grew at only 1 percent. By 1982, less than half the population is expected
to live in rural areas.
22.    -   Agricultural production grew at an average annual rate of 1 percent
during 1961-67; at 7 percent in 1968-73; and at 1.1 percent during 1974-79.
These trends reflect fluctuations in international prices for sugar (the most
important being a sharp increase in sugar prices in 1974 and their abrupt
decline in 1976), coffee and cocoa, and severe droughts in 1975 and 1976.
Other adverse factors have been petroleum price increases beginning in 1974
and uncertainty created by agrarian reform legislation. Although recent in-
creases in international sugar prices would indicate some improvement in the
country's terms of trade, the outlook is not good for Dominican traditional
exports when compared to the country's import needs over the next three years.
23.       Some 140 firms process livestock, including meat, dairy and leather
products; fruits and vegetables; grains and oilseeds; cocoa and tobacco.
Possibilities for export of most of these products are good, based on the
country's resource potential, climate and geographical location, particularly
for fresh and processed fruits and vegetables, and for tree and root crops.
Nevertheless, agroindustry faces serious constraints arising from the present
limited and dispersed agricultural production base, and a limited domestic
market.
24.       Most of the estimated 4.8 million ha suitable for agriculture is in
farms and the potential for bringing more land under cultivation is limited.
About 45 percent is in crops, 44 percent is in pasture, and 11 percent is in
tree crops and forest. Forests cover an estimated 1.1 million ha, 30 percent
of which is suitable for commercial logging. As a measure to protect forests,



- 7 -
intensive logging was prohibited in 1966. However, failure to develop the
forestry potential, mainly for lack of adequate forestry institutions and soil
and water resources conservation programs, has contributed to critical erosion
problems. Farms under crop and tree crop production have low levels of
productivity, indicating a considerable scope for increasing production by
improving yields.
25.       Water resources are adequate, with good average rainfall, but unevenly
distributed, so that supplementary irrigation is required in many areas of the
country.  About 3 percent of the agricultural land is under irrigation, and
there is a potential for development of an additional 100,000 ha in the long
term. However, the country's irrigation system which is financed and managed
by the Government, faces serious technical, legal, institutional and managerial
constraints. Improvements may be difficult in the short term, given the weak-
ness of the irrigation agency, and the land tenure implications of irrigation
development.
26.       Information on employment is scarce in the Dominican Republic.
Rough estimates based on a limited sample carried out in 1976, indicate
that the rural labor force is of about 800,000 persons, of which 320,000 are
farmers. Labor requirements per crop would indicate that the estimated
effective demand for labor is of about 400,000 man years in the agricultural
sector. These estimates indicate substantial unemployment and under-employment
in the rural areas.
27.       Yearly income per rural family is about US$2,400, or about 55 per-
cent of urban income, according to a household income and expenditure survey
carried out in 1976. The distribution of income in the rural sector shows
that the poorest group, those under US$360 per capita per year, comprises
nearly 70 percent of the rural population, while the highest income group,
(over US$1,200 per capita per year), comprises only 3 percent of the rural
population. The regional distribution of income is also uneven, with the
poorest part of the population concentrated in the western region of the
country.
28.       Government outlays for agriculture have increased 3.2 times since
1969, showing also a recent shift of investment expenditures, from irrigation
infrastructure (estimated at 36 percent in 1976, and at 30 percent in 1979),
towards agricultural development projects. Government support services, which
traditionally have covered research and extension, mainly for food crops, and
selected export crops, are now being extended to cover construction of storage
facilities for production inputs and products, and services to establish and
strengthen cooperative associations, as a first step toward improvement of the
country's marketing system. Private support services are directed to specific
crops, mainly sugarcane and tobacco, and are well organized and profit-oriented.
29.       Among production factors, lack of agricultural credit is a major
problem. This reflects the high credit risks associated with small farmers,
which represent the largest segment of the agricultural economy, a complex
land tenure situation, an inadequate pricing policy which discourages invest-
ment, and low interest rates on lending and on savings deposits.



-8-
Organization of the Sector
30.       The Ministry of Agriculture (SEA) is responsible for overall agri-
cultural planning, as well as research and extension. Land reform is the
responsibility of the Agrarian Reform Institute (IAD); irrigation is imple-
mented and managed by the National Water Resource Institute (INDRHI); and
agricultural credit is channeled mainly through the Agricultural Bank (BA).
Other institutions having a direct effect on the agricultural sector are
the Office of Price Control (DGCP), and the Price Stabilization Institute
(INESPRE). A detailed description of SEA and BA is provided in Part IV of
this report.
Main Policy Issues
31.       The Government's pricing policy and the issue of agrarian reform
have a direct bearing on production, and on the efficiency of implementation
of existing and future investment for agriculture in the Dominican Republic.
The depressive effect of pricing policy on agricultural production is deep and
widespread; in addition, the lack of definition of a Government policy on
agrarian reform has also discouraged investment.
Agricultural Price Policy
32.       Agricultural price policy is set by the President's office, which
decides on farmgate prices to encourage production, and on retail prices to
restrain inflation. Often, this policy is inconsistent, and in general has
tended to favor the consumer. DGCP has been fairly successful in policing and
controlling retail prices. Farmgate prices, on the other hand, have not
covered adequately the rising costs of inputs, particularly of fertilizers,
and as a result, farmers' incomes have not kept up with inflation. This has
discouraged the long-term development of the sector. INESPRE is responsible
for the farm price support system and for importation of food and animal feed
products. Lack of adequate grain storage and cold storage facilities makes it
difficult for INESPRE to implement an effective price support system.
Agrarian Reform
33.       Since its initiation in the 1920's, agrarian reform has made
impressive headway, with 360,000 ha distributed among 58,000 rural families.
An additional 200,000 ha were expropriated, but remain in the hands of the
Agrarian Reform Institute (IAD). In spite of these efforts, current estimates
show that prevailing land distribution is very uneven, with farms of up to
10 ha, constituting 88 percent of the total number of farms and covering only
20 percent of the total agricultural land, while the remaining 12 percent of
farms are in medium and large properties occupying 80 percent of total arable
land. Agrarian reform legislation has aimed at the distribution of irrigated
land; it has not affected land under rainfed agriculture. Nevertheless, the
uncertainty created by the absence of clear policies regarding agrarian re-
form, has discouraged investment. A first step in the formulation of an
agrarian reform program would be distribution of land now in the hands of the
IAD, and the preparation of comprehensive legislation covering both irrigated,
and rainfed agriculture.



-9-
Agricultural Credit
34.       The main sources of agricultural credit in the Dominican Republic
are the Central Bank, which provides rediscounting facilities and term loans
through the financial system, the Agricultural Bank (BA), commercial banks,
the Development Institute for Cooperative Credit (INDECOOP) and several
development finance companies (DFC's).
35.       The maximum legal interest rate on loans has been 12 percent per
annum since 1919, which is below current international lending rates. Neverthe-
less, market rates for short-term credit range from 16 to 18 percent taking
into account loan fees, commissions, and other charges which are added to the
interest rate. The interest rate for medium and long term credit provided
mainly by the Central Bank and BA, however, is generally lower. FIDE, the
Central Bank's investment fund, channels credit through financial intermedia-
ries at interest rates of 5.5 percent per annum, and allows the intermediaries
to charge 9 percent per annum. BA charges farmers 9 percent per annum for
loans below US$2,000, and 11 percent per annum for loans above US$2,000
(see para. 64).
36.       In 1979, institutional agricultural credit was of the order of
US$208 million. Despite an increase of 91 percent in institutional agricul-
tural credit in real terms over the 1969-79 period, only about 27 percent of
about 320,000 Dominican farmers had access to it. BA provides 61 percent of
total institutional credit. Its lending volume totaled US$127 million in
1979, with about 25 percent going to medium and long term credit to small
and medium-size farmers. The remaining institutional credit is provided by
commercial banks (34 percent), with a total volume of US$70 million, mostly
for short-term credit, and by finance companies and development institutions
(5 percent). Sources of funds to the above institutions are commercial
deposits, which account for 80 percent of the total source of funds to com-
mercial banks, the Central Bank's rediscounting facility, and FIDE. BA has
also obtained loans from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the
US Agency for International Development (USAID).
37.       Non-institutional credit accounts for about 45 percent of agricul-
tural credit, and includes money-lenders, merchants, intermediaries, process-
ing factories, and exporters. These sources extend credit mainly in kind, in
the form of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, equipment and transport services,
and act also as middlemen in marketing crops. Although no details are avail-
able on the terms and conditions, or the volume of these loans, interest rates
are believed to be in the range of 2 to 5 percent per month.
The Cocoa and Coffee Subsectors
38.       The Dominican Republic ranks among the major producers of cocoa.
Production in recent years has averaged 34,000 tons and exports about 25,000
tons per year. The value of cocoa exports in 1979 was US$72 million. Cocoa
is grown throughout the country, predominantly in small holdings, in a total
of about 115,000 ha by about 35,000 farmers. About 84 percent of cocoa farms
have less than 5 ha, and only 6 percent have more than 5 ha. Cocoa grown in
the Dominican Republic is the ordinary Forastero (Amelonado) type, and the



- 10 -
beans are known in export markets under the name of Sanchez. Most plantations
are old and poorly maintai-ned, with yields as low as 300 kg/ha, or about half
of the average yields in Central America, Ecuador and Colombia. Production
was affected by the two hurricanes of August/September 1979.
39.       Cocoa beans are dried without fermentation after removal from the
pod, which gives a product of inferior quality that can be used only for the
manufacture of cocoa butter, and commands lower prices in international markets.
Exporters buy the beans directly from larger farmers, intermediaries and,
increasingly, from small grower associations. The internal marketing system
includes a large number of intermediaries that purchase 60 percent of the
product at the farmgate, which they sell to exporters. Exporters buy directly
the remaining 40 percent of the crop from larger farmers and associations.
Farmgate prices average 67 percent of export prices. Improvements in process-
ing which are addressed in the project hold the key to increased farmer income.
40.       The value of coffee exports reached US$158 million in 1979, and
represented 18 percent of total commodity exports. The crop occupies about
150,000 ha, and is grown on 100,000 farms, which is equivalent to about 30
percent of the country's farm units. Farms of 6 ha or less occupy 70 percent
of the total coffee area and account for 95 percent of all coffee farms. The
average 1977-79 output was about 50,000 tons. Much of the coffee is grown in
hilly locations with over three quarters of the area located above 300 m in
elevation. Nearly two thirds of the production comes from the Cibao area,
with the southern slope of the central range and the Baoruco range in the
Southwest following in importance. The traditional Arabica type is predomi-
nant, but more recently new types of Arabica have been introduced, especially
Caturra, a medium dwarf, that begins production earlier, with higher yields.
41.       Coffee is processed by the wet method (except in the Barahona
area, where the dry method is used), resulting in high quality beans. The
internal marketing system is similar to that of cocoa. There is no inventory
available of processing facilities, but a large number are in poor condition
or have been abandoned. The larger plants, which process coffee for both
export and for local consumption, are operated by the main exporting firms.
Out of a total of 34 plants, 20 operate in the Cibao region and 12 in the
South Central region.
42.       Coffee growing is characterized by low levels of technology and
productivity. Plantations are generally old, most of them over 40 years,
with a varying plant density, no planting pattern, and often excessive shade.
The hurricanes that hit the country in 1979 caused extensive damage to coffee
plantations. SEA estimates that some 10,000 ha were severely damaged, and
48,600 ha were partially damaged. The areas affected were primarily in the
South Central zone. Assistance was received from the USAID for an emergency
coffee rehabilitation project. The US$14 million loan, which provided credit
and technical assistance to farmers, has been entirely disbursed.
Past Bank Assistance in Agriculture
43.       Bank involvement in the agricultural sector has been aimed at
improvement of agricultural output and better land distribution. The Bank



- 11 -
group has to date financed a livestock development project and two irrigation
projects. A Sugar Rehabilitation Loan is not yet effective (para. 16). The
livestock development project, as indicated in the Project Performance Audit
Report (Report 2052 of May 1978), was a generally successful operation which
resulted in a significant increase in milk and beef production, but livestock
productivity has fallen short of appraisal expectations. The first of the two
irrigation projects, Yaque del Norte, cofinanced with the IDB was approved by
IDA in 1973 and aims at increasing food crops by providing irrigation and
drainage to approximately 23,000 ha, and at settling farm workers in lands in
the project area affected by agrarian legislation. The project has suffered
substantial delays in the execution of civil works mainly due to delays in
acquiring rights-of-way, severe management problems and inadequate funding.
Cost overruns are of the order of 140 percent. Project management has been
strengthened and counterpart funds have been provided in the Government's 1981
budget. It is expected that by June 30, 1981, the closing date of the IDA
credit, the main drainage canal would be completed to benefit some 3,000 ha
of irrigated land, and the main and secondary irrigation canals would be com-
pleted for an area serving 1,700 ha. The remaining works are expected to be
completed by INDRHI, with IDB and local funds. The second irrigation project,
Nizao, became effective in January 1980 and aims at increasing output and
productivity in food crops, mainly fruit and vegetables for export, and im-
proving the standard of living of some 3,200 families. The project is being
implemented at a slower pace than expected, mainly because of fiscal con-
straints on the Government that have affected the availability of required
counterpart funds. The Government has, however, assigned the required funds
for 1081, which would permit an acceleration in the pace of project execution.
The Sugar Rehabilitation project aims at improving the State-owned sugar
industry's (CEA) operational efficiency and financial situation, mainly
through the rehabilitation of 6 of CEA's 12 factories and of their transport
systems, and through a management and organization improvement program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A staff appraisal report entitled "Dominican Republic - Cocoa and
Coffee Development Project" (No. 3379-DO) dated June 1, 1981 is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. Basic data are given in the
Loan and Project Summary. The project was appraised in November, 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 29 to April 30, 1981. The
Borrower and the Executing Agency were represented by a delegation led by
Mr. Manuel Cocco, Director, International Agreements Department, Central Bank.
The Project Area
45.       The cocoa project area covers the main growing regions of the
country, with special emphasis on the region which is most affected by
hurricanes and tornadoes. Cocoa is grown primarily in the humid areas of the
North, Northeast, East, North Central and Central regions. The main cocoa
zone is the Cibao, which contains some 59 percent of the total cocoa area.
It is estimated that 5,600 ha were severely damaged and 30,000 ha partially
affected in 1979, in the Cibao, Yamasa, and San Francisco de Macoris areas,
by tornadoes and by Hurricane David.



- 12 -
46.       Since 1962, SEA has conducted a cocoa replanting program with
hybrids secured from Puerto Rico. An experimental station with a training
center was established near San Francisco de Macoris. Seed orchards were
established to supply growers with seed. The programs received assistance
from USAID, the Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Sciences (IICA),
and from FAO for quality improvement. Up to 1979, some 18,870 ha had been
replanted totally or partially. Replanted fields of progressive farmers
produce over 1,400 kg/ha of dry beans, starting in the sixth year.
47.       The coffee project area includes the production zones that were
most affected by Hurricane David in 1979, comprising Bani, San Cristobal,
Azua and San Jose de Ocoa in the Central Region. The area includes about
one-third of the country. Current yields in the Project area dropped from
an average of 300 kg/ha to 90 kg/ha following the hurricanes.
48.       In the last 10 years, coffee growers and SEA have acquired a good
deal of experience with coffee replanting, a program which has benefitted
about 16 percent of the total coffee area. Since the start of replanting
programs in the early 1970's a number of growers have switched to Caturra, a
short and sturdy type, which allows high plant density, good resistance to
hurricanes and ease of pesticide treatment. The average yields of replanting
by progressive farmers are estimated at 1,400 kg of dry parchment/ha, and this
has created a high demand for Caturra plants. SEA has assisted plant produc-
tion by establishing nurseries, and by providing technical assistance to
growers. Banco Agricola (BA) has financed replanting programs.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The project would seek to improve productivity and incomes of
small-scale cocoa and coffee producers, and to increase production and exports
of these commodities. The project would finance, over a two-year commitment
period and four-year disbursement period, the following basic activities,
mainly through the provision of credit through BA.
(a) Rehabilitation of about 4,600 ha of cocoa distributed among some
2,000 farms;
(b) replanting of about 6,400 ha of cocoa among some 2,800 farms;
(c) replanting of about 5,000 ha of coffee distributed among 5,000
farms;
(d) provision of about 1,000 fermentation boxes and 300
sun-drying facilities to cocoa farmers and of about
4,000 depulping machines to coffee farmers;
(e) establishment of 22 cocoa nurseries and 52 coffee nurseries
by SEA and another 520 private coffee nurseries;
(f) reinforcement of the support services of SEA and BA; and
(g) monitoring and evaluation of project activities.



- 13 -
50.       Cocoa rehabilitation would be carried out in farms that were only
moderately damaged by the hurricanes. It is estimated that an average of 160
trees/ha would be planted to replace fallen trees or fill existing voids.
Yields of the rehabilitated plantations would increase to 560 kg/ha, starting
in the fourth year. Cocoa replanting would take place using old cocoa trees
as shade for the new hybrid plants. The Cocoa Department of SEA would supply
a pre-selected blend of hybrids in order to minimize sterility and to avoid
excessive uniformity, which could adversely affect pollination and increase
the danger of pest damage. Consultants engaged under the project would help
initiate field tests to establish accurately appropriate fertilization rates.
Average yields would be expected to increase from 200 kg/ha, without project,
to 900 kg/ha during the seventh project year.
51.       Coffee replanting would include gradual replacing of old Tipica
plantations with the Caturra variety. To the extent possible, old plants
would be retained and would continue to yield a crop while the Caturra seed-
lings, planted under the old trees, develop. The Coffee Department of SEA
would provide spraying services at cost; good weed control, pruning, and
pest control and fertilization would be promoted. As in cocoa, field trials
would be started to ascertain optimum fertilization rates. Average yields
are expected to increase from 90 kg/ha without the project, to 900 kg/ha with
the project, at the end of the fifth year.
52.       Cocoa bean fermentation would be promoted by the Cocoa Department
of SEA under the quality designation "Hispaniola". Financing would be pro-
vided under the project for the construction of wooden boxes for fermentation,
and export of the superior product would be arranged with one of the exporting
firms. Cocoa drying and coffee depulping facilities would be financed under
the project. Cocoa and coffee nurseries would be maintained by the Cocoa and
Coffee Departments. It is expected that half of the project requirements for
coffee would be supplied by Government nurseries, and the remaining half by
private nurseries.
53.       Additional extension and credit staff would be employed under the
project to provide technical support for the renovation and rehabilitation
programs. Vehicles for the additional extension and credit staff would also
be provided. Training programs would be intensified for field staff and
growers. Technical assistance of about 60 man-months of consultants, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be included to advise on cocoa disease prevention
and control, fertilization and specific coffee production problems. Study
tours or training abroad of cocoa and coffee personnel would also be financed
by the project. Monitoring and evaluation of project activities would consist
of data collection and analysis with regard to implementation. Semi-annual
progress reports would be sent to the Bank.  A completion report would be
prepared not later than six months after full disbursement of the Bank loan.
Project Organization and Administration
54.       SEA, through its Under-Secretariat for Planning, would be responsi-
ble for the overall coordination and supervision of proposed project imple-
mentation. SEA's Cocoa Department would be in charge of implementation of the
cocoa rehabilitation and replanting programs, establishment of cocoa nurseries,



- 14 -
fermentation and sun-drying facilities. SEA's Coffee Department would be
in charge of implementation of the coffee replanting program, and coffee
nurseries. Banco Agricola (BA) would be responsible for the provision of
credit to farmers. SEA's Department of Control and Evaluation would be
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
55.       Banco Agricola would employ 13 additional credit officers and 13
assistants. The Cocoa Department would engage 30 additional professionals,
to complement existing field staff. A total of 66 field agents would give
a farmer/agent ratio of about 1:100. To carry out project activities, the
Coffee Department would engage 50 agents, of whom 20 would be field agents,
25 para-technical staff, and five supervisors. The para-technical staff would
be primarily engaged in promotion of nurseries, and day to day assistance to
growers. As in cocoa, the extension density in coffee would be about 1:100
(Sections 3.04 and 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Ministry of Agriculture
56.       The Ministry of Agriculture (SEA) is the central organization deal-
ing with the agricultural sector. In establishing agricultural policy, SEA is
assisted by a number of consultative groups, including the-National Agricul-
tural Council (CNA) and Regional Councils. CNA, headed by an Executive Board
whose members include the heads of each of the autonomous agencies in the
sector, is responsible for the coordination and integration of sectorial
activities and for sectoral budgeting. The Regional Councils include, in
addition to public officials in the region, representatives of the private
sector selected among agricultural producers and farmers associations.
57.       SEA has seven Under-Secretariats:  Planning, Production, Research,
Extension and Training, Administration, Natural Resources, Rural Development
and Animal Husbandry. The Under-Secretariat of Planning includes a Department
of External Resources in charge of channeling foreign funds to the sector and
of providing liaison with international lending agencies. The Under-Secretariat
of Production includes the Cocoa and Coffee Departments. The Cocoa Department
is in charge of cocoa development and improvement. It comprises production,
research, marketing and administration. The supervision of cocoa programs in
the field is under the responsibility of two inter-regional offices with
headquarters in San Francisco de Macoris and El Seybo. The Coffee Department
is organized along similar lines. It has two inter-regional offices located
in Santiago in the north and Bani in the south. The technical services
provided to farmers by the Cocoa and Coffee Departments are good. However,
because of budgetary constraints, the farmer/agent ratio is high. Additional
field staff under the project would improve the farmer/agent ratio (para. 55).
Banco Agricola
58.       BA was established as an autonomous development agency in 1963, and
is the single most important institutional lender for agricultural production
and investment in the country. It is administered by a Board of Directors,
chaired by a General Administrator. Board membership includes the Governor
of the Central Bank, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Director of the



- 15 -
Agrarian Reform Institute, the Director of INESPRE, and two members appointed
by the President of the Republic. Day to day management is in the hands of
the General Administrator, who is also appointed by the President of the
Republic, and the Deputy Administrator.
59.       BA consists of seven departments:  Programming, Credit Operation,
Loan Recovery, Controller, Personnel, Administrative Services and Public
Relations. BA operates through a network of 28 branch offices, located in
rural communities. To complement the branch office network, a system of 42
satellite offices was also established in early 1979, with assistance from
USAID, to bring facilities closer to the farmer, and cut the length of admin-
istrative procedures and reduce borrowing costs. BA has a staff of 1,515,
about 70 percent in the rural offices. Among 394 agents working in the field,
33 are college trained agronomists, 231 are agricultural school graduates,
and 130 are vocational school graduates.
60.       BA's lending operations are decentralized.  After a loan applica-
tion is prepared by a credit or extension agent, it is submitted to the local
Credit Committee of each branch office, consisting of the Manager, the Sub-
Manager for Administration, and the Sub-Manager for Credit Operation. The
committee can approve loans up to US$40,000, while those above US$40,000
are transmitted to Headquarters, where the Central Credit Committee deals
with those up to US$75,000. Larger loans most be approved by the Board
of Directors. BA has established a maximum loan size of US$250,000.
61.       BA's loan portfolio has grown rapidly over the past five years,
from US$78 million in 1978, to about US$127 million in 1979, an increase of
50 percent in real terms. BA finances basically agricultural crops and live-
stock products. Loans for rice represented 41 percent of total in 1978, beef
and dairy products 16 percent, coffee 10 percent, and tobacco 6 percent. The
remaining 27 percent represent a variety of crops. BA's lending operations
are divided into programs constituting its own portfolio, which totalled
US$158.5 million as of December 31, 1979, and a US$17.5 million trust port-
folio administered on behalf of the Government.
62.       Overdue loans were substantial, but decreased from 29 percent of
the loan portfolio in 1974, to 18 percent in 1979. This is partly the result
of the creation in September 1978 of a Loan Recovery Department, which is
actively involved in a program of loan recovery and bad debt write-off.
63.       BA's resources are obtained from the Central Bank and international
financing institutions. The major sources of funds as of December 31, 1979,
were short-term loans from the Central Bank in the form of advances and
discounts,amounting to US$51.2 million; FIDE loans amounting to US$10.4 million
and a total of US$24.2 million of funds administered for SEA, mostly from
USAID. These funds represented about 47 percent of total resources. BA's
equity, which amounts to US$85.3 million, includes its capital, a special
Government contribution and accumulated surplus.  Since 1978, loans from
IDB and USAID have been passed on to BA, together with counterpart Government
funds, as capital contributions. This has enhanced BA's lending potential
and financial standing.



- 16 -
Lending Policies and Procedures
64.       Interest rates charged by BA are 9 percent for loans below US$2,000
and 11 percent for loans above US$2,000. In addition, a one-time transaction
fee of 1 percent is charged for loans above US$2,000 and an annual commission
of 1 percent was introduced during 1980. Loans made with FIDE funds carry
an interest rate of 9 percent, in accordance with FIDE regulations. During
project preparation, BA agreed that, interest rates for cocoa and coffee
credit would be increased to 11 percent for loans below US$2,000 to farmers
with less than 2 ha; and 12 percent per annum plus 1 percent commission
per annum for other loans. Farmers' associations and cooperatives in
which at least 80 percent of the members own less than 2 ha would be eligible
to obtain credit at 11 percent per annum interest rate. Given the land
ownership structure of cocoa and coffee, this arrangement would benefit small
farmers. These interest rates would be in line with interest rates for term
lending to industry and tourism. Agreement has been obtained that BA would
not offer other lines of credit to cocoa and coffee producers at more favor-
able conditions than those applied to project sub-loans (Section 3.02 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Government, the Bank and BA would review annually
BA's terms and conditions of coffee and cocoa credit, and as a result of such
review, the Government and BA would agree to revise, as necessary, the terms
and conditions of subloans. (Sections 2.02(b) and 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
65.       Credit to sub-borrowers under the project would be channeled through
BA. Sub-loans would be extended to finance up to 90 percent of investments on
the basis of farm development plans or processing facilities and nursery
investment plans, to be prepared by SEA extension staff. Evaluation of the
creditworthiness of subloan applications and of the farm development and
investment plans would be carried out by BA, which would assume the credit
risk.
66.       Repayment and grace period terms for each project subloan would be
established by BA in consultation with SEA technicians on the basis of the
cash flow projection of the corresponding farm or investment plan. Subloans
for cocoa rehabilitation would have repayment terms of up to six years,
including grace periods of up to one year. Subloans for cocoa and coffee
replanting would have maximum repayment periods of 10 years, including up to
four years of grace. Subloans for nurseries and processing facilities that
are not part of an overall farm development plan would have repayment terms
of up to six years, including one year grace.
Cost and Financing of the Project
67.       The total project cost, including price contingencies, is estimated
at US$40 million, including taxes and duties amounting to about US$0.7 mil-
lion. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project costs have been estimated on the basis of mid-1981 prices, plus 36
percent over the baseline cost over a four year disbursement period for
expected price increases.
68.       The proposed US$24 million loan would finance 60 percent of total
costs, equivalent to the foreign exchange cost, plus an estimated 45 percent



- 17 -
of local cost. Local cost financing is recommended in view of the relatively
low foreign exchange component of the project and the Government's current
tight fiscal and balance-of-payments situation described in paras. 8 and 9.
US$22.5 million of the proceeds of the loan would be made available by the
Government to Banco Agricola under a subsidiary agreement, acceptable to
the Bank, which incorporates terms and conditions of Project Sub-loans as
described in paragraphs 64-66. The above funds, together with US$12.4 million
counterpart, equivalent to 31 percent of total project costs, would be passed
on to BA as capital contributions. The balance of US$3.4 million would be
financed by project beneficiaries. The Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Disbursements and Procurement
69.       The Bank would finance over a period of four years 70 percent of
the amount disbursed by BA for sub-loans; 100 percent of total expenditures
for about 60 man-months of consultant services and overseas training; and
100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment related to
technical assistance.
70.       Disbursement requests for expenditures in respect of consultants'
services and overseas training, and vehicles and equipment, would be fully
documented. Reimbursement to BA for loan expenditures would be made against
statements of expenditures, certified by BA. Documentation to support state-
ments of expenditures would be retained by BA for review during the course of
supervision. Investment items financed through project subloans would be
procured locally. Agricultural works would, in most cases, be undertaken by
subborrowers, or by hired labor. International competitive bidding (ICB)
would be required for the procurement of vehicles and equipment directly
imported by SEA and BA, amounting in the aggregate to about US$500,000,
whenever the size of individual contracts exceeded US$100,000. Similar type
contracts of US$100,000 or less would be awarded in accordance with the
Borrower's internal procurement procedures, which include local competitive
bidding and are acceptable to the Bank. Hiring of consultants and training
for field staff would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       Separate project accounts, records and documentation would be kept.
Not later than six months after each fiscal year, the Bank would be provided
with results of an audit of the project accounts, including documentation
supporting the statements of expenditures of SEA and BA, as well as the
latter's financial statements, carried out by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank (Sections 4.02(b) and 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Production and Market Aspects
72.       At full development, in project year 8, incremental production of
cocoa would be about 5,700 tons annually with an aproximate value of $10.3
million at 1980 farmgate prices, which represents about 16 percent of the
country's 1977-79 cocoa production. Corresponding figures for incremental
coffee production starting in year 6 would be 4,000 tons, with a value of
$8.5 million, amounting to 8 percent of average 1977-79 production.



- 18 -
73.       About 80 percent of cocoa production is exported.  Due to inadequate
processing by farmers, Dominican cocoa is of inferior quality and only finds
a market in the United States at a price penalty of about 8 percent. Through
the project, better cocoa drying and fermentation practices would be promoted.
World cocoa prices are expected to decrease considerably in real terms in
this decade, based on expectations of important production increases of major
producers. The contribution of the proposed project's incremental cocoa
output to world production and exports would be negligible. The broad
characteristics of coffee outlook are similar to those of cocoa. Principal
differences are that a larger proportion of total output is consumed domestic-
ally (about 35 percent), and that Dominican coffee is of high quality and
commands high quotations in the New York Commodities Exchange.
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
74.       Farmers' annual incomes, based on an average farm size of 2.3 ha
for cocoa rehabilitation and replanting, and of 1.0 ha for coffee replanting,
would increase from US$1,150 without project to US$2,070 with project for
cocoa rehabilitation, and from US$800 without project, to $3,310, with project
for cocoa replanting. Farmers' annual incomes for coffee replanting would
increase from $165, without project,to $1,220 with project. The financial
rates of return would be of 61, 57 and 24 percent, for cocoa rehabilitation,
cocoa replanting and coffee replanting, respectively.
75.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 61 per-
cent. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the project would continue to have
an acceptable rate of return, of the order of 12 percent, even if benefits
(productivity or price) were to decrease by 59 percent, and costs to increase
by 143 percent. The project is expected to benefit about 10,000 farmers.
76.       Incremental exports from the proposed project would create addi-
tional Government revenues of about US$6.0 million annually (at 1980 product
prices) at full development, in the form of taxes and levies on exports of
cocoa and coffee (about US$3.0 million each). Export taxes on cocoa and
coffee were introduced in 1975, and are currently applied at progressive rates
of 20 percent to 40 percent of FOB cocoa prices in excess of US$0.60/lb, and
of 10 percent to 30 percent on FOB coffee prices above US$0.80/lb.
Project Risks
77.       Some coffee areas of the hemisphere have been severely affected by
leaf rust, a fungus disease to which Caturra is susceptible. The Dominican
plant health control services have forbiden the importation of coffee plants
but there is a risk that the disease could be carried by spores over long
distances and could reach the island. While resistant varieties do exist
and are grown by the Coffee Department of SEA, no variety has been developed
which combines leaf rust with high quality and productivity. The replanting
program proposed would offer the best protection currently available against
this risk, as planting in lines would facilitate treatment, and increases in
yields would justify its cost. In addition, the proposed replanting programs
would decrease the risk of hurricane damage to coffee trees and of pest damage
to cocoa farms.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III. A condition of effectiveness
is that a subsidiary agreement acceptable to the Bank between the Government
and BA, has been executed.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 3, 1981



-20 A-NNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  I of  6
DOMINICAN REPU5::C - SCCIAL 2NDICATORS DATA SHE5T
DOMINICAN RIPUELIC          REFERE.NCE GROUPS (UE,GHTED AVERAGES
LRND AhEA (THOUSAND SO. L-M.)                                                    - 05T RECENT tSTIMAT)-
TCIAL            ' . 
AURICULTURAL     27.1                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE SNCOML           MIDDLE INCCMIE
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA * CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                240.0       390.0    990.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALiNT)    157.0       321.0    464.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, M2D-YEAR (MILLIONS)     3.0         4.1       5.1
WS1AMN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.0      40.3      48.9                    63.4                     53 9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONAJY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPtUATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101-                     63.0        83.0    105.0                     28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. gm. AGRICULTURAL LAND    166.0      174.0    188.0                     31.7                    129.5
POPLLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.1        41.2      46.1                    41.4                     30.6
13-64 YnS.                        49.0        49.1      51.2                    54.7                    61.1
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                  2.9         2.7       2.7                     3.9         -.2
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.6         2.9       2.9                     2.7                      1.6
URBAN                             6.1         5.8       5.4                     4.1                      3.3
CRUDE 3BITH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    50.0        45.0      37.0                    34.6                     22.8
CRUDE DEATIl RATE (PER TEOUSAND)    16.0       12.0       9.0                     8.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.5       3.4                     2.5                      1.5
FAMaLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        17.2      88.9
TJSERS (PERCENT OF !JARgID WOlEN)   ..         .       31.0
FOOD AND hUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0       100.0      93.0                   106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  86.0        88.0      93.0                   107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         42.0        43.0      43.0                    65.6                     91.0
OP WHICH ANILAL AND PULSE      22.0        25.0      19.0                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) HOILTALITY RATE   23.0        15.0      10.0                     6.4                      4.3
HEALTH
L:FE EXPECTANCY AT aIRYR (YEARS)   51.0        57.0      60.0                    63.1                     67.8
IhFAST MORTALITY RATE (PER                   102. 6  103.8
ThOUSAND)                            .-                                          64.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLLATION)
TOTAL                                        37.0      55.0                    65.9
URBAN                                        72.0      88.0                    80.4.
RURAL                              ..        14.0      27.0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        54.0      42.0                    62.3
URBAN                              ..        63.0      74.0                    79.4
RL3RAL                             *-        54.0      16.0                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN             ..      2100.0        ..                  1549.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PEPSON        ..      3930.0        ..                  1227.5                    929.4
POPLLATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           405.0       346.0    372.0/d                  480.3                   2M9.7
URBAN                              ..       150.0
RURAL                              ..      2680.0/d
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED          ..          ..      3Q.Otd                    ..                     17.0
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SLZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.0         5.3        ..
UR3AN                             4.8         5.2
RURAL                             5.1         5.4
AVERAGZ NUHBER OF PERSONS PER RlOCM
TOTAL                             2.0          ..
URSLAN                            1.6           .        .
RURAL                             2.2          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of DWELLt.NGS)
TOTAL                            20.0          ..
LRSAN                            57.7          ..        ..
RURAL                             3.0          *-



-21 -                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  2  of  6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRA5ES
- MOST RECENr ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT             MIDOUL INCOME         NIDOLC INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTfSTT lb    LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBEBZ           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENSDLL!tENT RATIOS
PRSftARY:    TOTAL               98.0       101.0    102.0                     99.7                    105.9
MALE                99.0       101.0    101.0                    101.0                    109.3
FEMALE              98.0       102.0     103.0                    99.6                    103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 7.0        19.0      27.0                    34.4                    64.0
MALE                 7.0        19.0      28.0                    33.5                     71.1
*Q2ALE               7.0        19.0      27.0                    34.7                    36.9
VOCATIKAL ENROL. (: OF SECONOARY)   ..          8.0       9.0                    38.2                    28.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAMY                          58.0        5&.0        ..                    30.5                    29.k
SECONDAiRY                       16.0        24.0        ..                    14.J                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY  ATF (PERCZNT)      64.J        67.2      67.0                    76.3
CONSU.PrIO#
PASSENGER CARS PtR TB3USAND
POPULATION                        4.0        10.0      14.4                    43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       32.0        38.0      38.0                    245.3                  192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PJOPLATION                        3.0        23.0      30.0                    84.2                   118.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCtLATSION PER
1HOUSAND POPULATION                27.0        36.0      42.0                    63.3                    93.0
CINfLA ANsuAL ATElNDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0        1.2        ..                      ..                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     854.3      1073.0   1407.0
FESALE (PERCENT)                 10.5        11.2      12.0                    22.2                    30.4
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            67.0        61.2      57.0                    37.1                    37.0
lDUsmY (PERCENT)                 12.0        14.0      16.0                    23.5                    29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              21.6        26.8      26.5                    31.5                    40.9
MALE                               50.4        47.1      46.3                    48.9                    55.9
FENALr                              6.1         6.1       6.3                    14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.7         1.9       1.8                     1.6                     1.0
INCOME DISt1R25V5ION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RICELVED BY
RICoEST 5 PERCENT OF O0USEESOLDS    ..         ..
HSCHES 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOIWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..          ..        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF bOUSEROLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI2sATED AbSOLUTE POVERTY LINCGME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URLAN                              ..          ..    451.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    263.0                    19o.8
ESTIMATED RLATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
llUIX                              ..          ..    268.0                    *74.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    186.0                    332.5                   385.1
ESTIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLIDt
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URSAN                              ..          ,,      45.0
RURAL  43.0
Not available
aot applicable.
NVMS
/a  The group averages for eachi inaicator are popatioeigt  ertt!eti4 seaus.  Coverage of couautr.s
aaong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Cbleas  otherwise ncted, data for 1960 refer to any year betv<er 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Moset Recent Eatimace, betwen 1974 and 1978.
/c 1965-70 aserase; /d Covernment hospital establishDents only.
Most recenc estimace of CGM  per capita is for 1979, all other d4at are as of April, 1980.
Revised January 5, 19PI



- 22---ANXI-
ItEIITIfONS OF SOCIAL CtlI~CAlotS                                                               Pave    .3   of   6
foetAlthough the does ar.     ea.   fr.sore  generally jeuged the.os  outortaln ud  rtul,it should also he noted Utha  noyny not he Inter-
natioallynoertei    - hs..s  of tee lcof nean..ardloed d,efleinloes  -0 ccnoepto used hr dilerot ...ehehos in colleclog the data.  The dats ate,noe
The cefesece gocpc ar  (I) th  same cusern gotap ofthe sub not ocnere co  Cl) u  rAonreJroup.cet nosevad  hIglertvyrnc Incomteras-tu hoac-y grou
othe  ujc   ocr   ecp  t      CpialSurIuOilicvtnrner" go... oher   '                             1ddeocm   Sorer Africa a-d Mizdl   ot'tooo E `becus- o  sronIger
ooolonultasl ahlcines).  Ia to  cetoo--  grop d-n  the argos are pe..alatcn -oe gh-nd arilhlsic nears  -aab:dca                             -rd sho-  only she. at
eus  ot f   ohe oonre            groep  asu-  fc  -brI          oluo.Sit...             terg    fAueto   mn   Oollcnr  depends entheu l-ubility  of
denacedo   non undem  outln  ua  bee-ernone   lo rolcg an-rgn- of on  ld cao   osons.--sa'eae    r                                               sfle ctnyerL      n   the'a
0us  Idlcsner as ac.n  a-ng ens c-eory and   tern              grous
LullS ASIA  .testo    qm....a.c.o.nn con-ocancnoccs  S   oee   npra-t-co   Pcc-
ont  -leta  nuedcs oncotPco.inb  land are  and inland wsnnsiac    olC.n -ncndtlcenoni atulosiebnl
Agricutural- Osteats  f agronltual0.na usd temporrilylo                             ..raneci  Poululo  coo ou,-uaiPrt  -  oaato        un    ynubro  prseneclng
",11 IER.  IMI 1111)   GIP P-   c.rib. -tiurbn, andctral ticrkd  by  hoircepnl    nbeof hospital beds
oledby  bam   ec -eni-  -en-d us Wnelg Sank Atlas (IS76-75hse;lh,                           oslbl   npi             n   rvt   er3t  ad snhledhsia   o   e
1920, and 1978 dat.r..bl-i
hahllancnensr.    noitas   pss anlsmeespermnetly snffed
ENERGY CIS70.tT-IlN _PR CAITA - dAeulcneetoss    neoaleeg  (coa                                    hyanles  on-p pid lad.    tate..iIshme hn           _ prvdn   prlednh.ipuh tudn-dleI
S.- ..d '-dr-, -I-   ..d                      entes notnermnenty stafed by a physician  Char by aedi.lctaseat
eicty) inilegr-e  of coal equlos-le   Act capital S96t, 1970, adI17                           na...se    i,   e   tdif.n.C  womb offe  In-pat is a-       -dtlead pro-Ide
Tatul Peulut~a, hid-Yar Cnillcns   -As of July 1; 196h, 1920, on   99              Oeinroco onrlSd - Th-I number of etccost   rdsbr
among  -ountnis; ihif, 1970, an,d I973 dens.                                                Anerane Sloe ofv.u,o prsn   a  houe...                    .-atl.hotbe. aed  -ast-
P-j-ti...  b-d    9             and thir main meals.  A'baurder orldger- may at may   e be ineleded Ea
tota  popsln-l- by ag-ad sea and their martality and fbrtilono  eases                       the.. boehod far    at             Pulal purase
PPI cne  prmees  o  nralt.atscopin   d-heelvsaaoe                                          .eene-ce   f  etoetd on     otl.ubn,ad                       1ao   - Aestegs r
le   itef. nac a   Irth increas.Ing cith  -senty' 5 p.0  -upcea lEote                     e  of  eSnpntc..  0I ura.tdtaleupdconrina
level, sn  fenale tilecp-         ai  sehleaa  72.5 years.  The.ae                          deelgs  respect Iny.            elgsoIiu -p nnt trcread
fenetllity.. accordIn  tt mOtOr Inn1 ucd pant  asily  plannieg  ,eot-          c.          cte so  l-orvi-iro Crentee ef dveLitnn)- toa,ehr-, and cret -
lath cecet ry is then cnaigced  -t  of th.e.aa  iecniirntofontatlt                            oaetnIdelnsot   lotc-yI   Iigqatt   spretg
Statonaer pouletcs    In     i a ...onry popelatte-  there i. na utneth asto
see birth rate is equal to the death rate, mod alecotheagnst--ct rone                 SDUCA:,-
mains antat.  MUie Is achiend only after fertIlity rates J..'ic  10                       odi-ncd iErolesr Pantos
the  epatnetlee  sf -i  nt -ceprodccro-  ruts, shoe nach geertin                              pcureioo  - tonal, male and fe-l-I                stne,maeem Snmt
ofsmnreplae   tefeaty              h   taInr   euainsr                                    errllcEn .. f al   ga  nte  otre  ne  asptemae  o   epenv
esiatdo  the haste of the pro'e-td t          tr-.tc    f tn   oy'uin                    primary sho-g   pouaios              1oral  icua  crlde agd 4-Il
In tie year 1551  andshe rate of declune    f.frtIlity earn no recucsyars ban adjusted for llfle-t   len'gths or prsmarpedu...tis; for
tmann level.
totul urna,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.i-~ L--furI-   ! .. pil
yet ne.An. agreulnurl land    Conritd  cc aove C n  agoncu octallato             usally  o  II no  7 :tear-~f a e; cnrrnpandeneosures ace gnnrall
conaitoonege Sructre C  enoet) -Children  Cf-lu4     si,nrhc-g yl).-515. re                                     ....l annroal, or ocher programs thih oPerte  sep
lin;1960, 1970, uod 1979 lana.                                                            P.pleetn  pse-  tmanrodacndr   Totalarudete erolled 
Unuen Slot fate Cnerthaunanit - csa  live hrths9 pth ......n of old-year                                         .p.  
19ulnln;  0,i 19ff. and 197f data.                                                 CNSU"TIONw
Crdlat, PaeIl      rtauul           -Baesua  deaths  a  nuuad If eld-year                    eaeerC s prtousand ronullatlon)      cseger ears  -oeptts  mano
pnpalanlos; IhiS,  970, and 19ff data                                                ter   Iealo  lees cta  eih-'sns ohcnelae                            here   n
1ent Srrdu-tm~nAvrg                 ubrof d-aginarsaons ill bear 15                           sIl ray vehicle. h.            t
tility  rates-, usually  fle-ea  aerge   ending in 1960, 1970. end 1915                         taccsn   eea   alcynn7ua,   fpplto;saun    el
faiyF    ueatA--ors   nna   esuad)-  nulnmbro   ccyos                                            onsdrotor              -rutisuo   nyascetgp                   rulsf  aI    s
-oeofoild-h-ar-tg  ge  1-4yearn) choose bi-th-nerotl denicen   to                        Rdfe.nn. I  r- yr- th-esad conulc -n       - ITy ren..oron  for broadre.n.to
allnrnied woe   non   g   ru.greere  ?ubLiu pee thousan d po..ietton; anc tafe   unltoei od7
LO1 OD ANO ITIITI                                                                                       ..eaucriesud  In, years nbn.-tgs.-tn    f fT  sr e sl efet.
Nesppo -Crr l-to   prtoco ppltt)- Show   tht averge   treets-
prou-rnto  all -oo  -nod iua.-             rndttctecld-eeo   and tee  ae.d                                                        ...lc   eoe  pialy  orcrding gen-.a  ros Et Ia    . rnidered
Is  nn-adar yn-o basis.  Cc-entidl..nr..epraaaty gooe   o..g              orue              n  h   dly.f  tapaoatlatOu  tnsoeh
insed of sager) which are edibl   andn oa _nurinnt.(eg. cffe  etA                            Cionc  neal tedneOtCet  e   rrtsde   h   eboo
tea are,  ccluded).Ageregen  production of ...h country Is based on
aiou avrage peedu-e  prio5 oelghna; 1961-63, 1970,. ad 1976 don.                        tlcen   nobld daingsevet.ldoaoesoat   rvet   ies
P r antasAel 1o-nlo -e  C ner-et of rniee )- Cenpared freeadneteule
exot,ad changesI  stck    St pplins... encide aegmo  feed,  ed.                      lr  ao   er   eesnu      cnaotycev    eno    ntdn
ten tst..ere  esimated b  fAc ...e  en.g                teeds.for nora'Lfnit-n   tevsieao                                  butr,...orsearbl;1960, 1910 sod
pyiotgce                          or-           19ff dat.
olty sod bea1tnh cons ideringIevoamna  tmeanr,hdy weIghts, agIeaeCrret                                           eI   ao   en   spretg                 f tntei .blhe   ets
and see dietrihoelon of pplain,ad allowing 10 percent for- no                      ~      Areltr -e-.nt -1 la-bvfoc Inarngfrenyhutgad
household..1 feni;196-6,  lPS  ad  9  dataPr,                      - f-.pr                    fishing a   rcene    f total leenhose  196f, 1970 and 19cg dana.
Pe  aiennt o   rni  gasre   a)-Penl If fee   of pr cano                                Indoten Cer- en  I-Labor frein   I  eieig... e..tm.ln              tnfenter'ine
ve  ea:ppy            .U.on   pee        I d da.ttcpply offen  Ia defined .e above.  R.-     an        ret       ater and gas o  pernentage of enta1 1ahet ferns; 1960.
qefrnent  her al   onelssahthd   ylSDA prvnde fonime                                        1971 an.d 19i79 data
alle-ann   of 60 gam of terlpoenpr ds  and 20 grams  f anea :I                            carlc P     l  Pa%te  rterS-ttl.ae   e   nan-Ptilals5
pulse prosaic, ad hih 11 gram   chould be  -nma  pntsin.  t,hese stand-                      act ivity eaten  "re rmpused as tIIwl, ml,adfnslnfrea
ards are I-e  than`thes  ef 70gras  f  totlpeenad1rrm    f                                    ecnae        oe,ml  adfml   ealno   l  cgecpain-lp;
atCprotein  ae   nrs  foe the sarld, Prep...ed by PSO In h.               he             1960, 19ff, aod 1979 data.  These at          0' pattpalnetee eIfIletiasg
acId Pond Sarrep  1961-65. 19ff and 1977 dana'LO
Per splt rooeto upoy fre anmal nd plse- PrteInnuppy atfoo  de-       age-eo sruenrsIf the  pepulatio..  and I..g ti.e trend.  A, fa  setS-
lyed ieee aninale end Pun_  In gram   Per day; 1961-65, 1910 and tolit.                   toci esdncSr                       aI   f Ppltis          der 10 and 60 emlne
Chid C..e. ..-4) fanta.lity gate CIlr thocsd           A- san    deant  per9 theusand  InEb                            are
age greup 1-4 peana, to childten Is this a.ge grcup; for e..nt densloping neon-
trims date derived tram  life  tahles; 1960, 1970 ued 1977 data-                           InCInt IlSisIrCfLIOS
Ia                                                fnrAen~~-ann of Pe~nnnt Ircune (both On east and hod)  - heneined~~ by rinheet
REALrH                                                                                                  .."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pren,cobs   0  eon thi_:, peretOL21pret  aodd poret     eeen
life  eseano-rue01mb Crars) - Aerags nmber ofyears of life  r ..aicing            ofPr beset, ids.-                                                  r.t
anbrh   196, 197U and 1978 dcc.lf  - h1
Infant ltertatity F_t (e  theau-d) -annual dennIhs of lefa-n   sdec on  yea                  POVET-Y loRGET GnAUS
of age per thousand lIne hloh.htendeeln  unn,Irn   ne   tSstcnn)-uhstdnsa
uoNstoSfe'dtr  (cemente rbcopulatIon.) - irna  urbn,an.                  rra -b.                 Absolute psoerep incom   level h  thc.tice.         eel leett      ita
Sember on panple  (tonal. omen, and rural) with reaeomahleeocessnneefe     nerrintonelty  adequcts diet plus essential tee-fond rIen-rstr-llyed.ata.inieon
eaernpplp (l.inoden  treated sathec  eaer  nuetreated hen  -nontaminatnd                    afodbe
estee  each an that Ito    protected bershetes, spig..ad santary  -IsIc                      EtitetedIinv   oet  nnelnl(1   c  ula      ra   n   ee 
peenue   fthei  eepcttepnpulalnts.-                   b In  n   ehncsepuhlin            .- isratltine  peosrtc  t o I     s---  in   n-iIge  asaspn   upSe
Iutsnal  er  tnanupsen    loted St nore that. 209  -tunrs from  a  osemp he.   -               pebm          seo   h   eety            ra   .ene IsL derived fete  the rurlI
onosidered  so beIng ei~~~~~~.hin                                          Iiehectattef ohrghss nf    fI-heaso.IbCnears..
reasonable  anoess euld  eyt  that the housewife.tmeir  of tt. honshald                  slevl-     bajsmn               ihe   e-  dlnn    an
dn nothave  o spe d adarprleaepr f shedyn fecin                            .he           ulacdPotdtonStw boat  eerny ITonea LevlCoret     r
rural - Nuberof Pe"i ttl  ura,an   ua)  -erod byn e-
Psea. Ic  lan7       the. Illeetint anId dlepsIalluitn. en utebhsut ita-ia,fcnol  Amel*ys.e ed Proinotlana  Depet-en
of hamu   -srea   t  case-atr by5 0-on   syna0  tnt ass atf                                                                                    April, 1980



- 23-
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Annual Growth Rates (%) Constant prices 1978
Indicator                            (million us$ at current prices)            Actual                  Estimares                           Projected
1980a/                1976     1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982     1983      1984     1985
National Accounts
Grass Domestic Product                                6,716.4                  6.7      5.0       2.2        4.8       5.4        5.5       5.0      4.9       5.0      4.9
1,121.6                  7.4      1.7       4.6        1.1       4.5        5.3       4.1      4.0       4.0      3.9
Agrild try-b/                                       1,974.6                  7.8      5.0      -3.3        8.6       I.S        6.0       4.7      4.9       5.1      5.1
Industry -
Seices                                             3,620.1                   5.9      6.1      4.6         3.9       7.7        4.3       5.4      5.2       5.2      5.2
Cosm. ption                                        5,678.4                   6.2      3.8       0.4        3.0       9.9        3.8       4.5      5.0       4.7      4.6
Gross Dom.I-nvestmet                               1,570.0                 -6.4       8.1       2.7        4.5       7.0        5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Export Goods, NFS                                  1,288.0                 19.8       6.7      -1.0       25.5    -13.9        12.0       6.3      3.4       6.9      5.3
Imports Goods, BFS                                 1,821.0                 -2.1       5.4     -5.6        13.6      6.6         4.3      4.5       4.6      4.5       4.5
Gross Natisnal Sa-ing                                   805.4                -25.2      5.6       1.0        7.8    -17.5        14.6       6.0      4.5       6.2      5.3
Prices
GDP deflator                                                                   2.9      9.4       1.3       11.6      15.9       11.0      11.0     10.0      10.0      9.0
Exchange Rate                                                                  1.0      1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
Average Prenism on 009                                                          -         -      25.2       22.5      25.0
in the parallel market (7.)
Average Annual Increase (-is
Share of GDP at market Prices (7.)                             (at constant 1978 pri-es)
1960    1970    1975    1980_/ 1985    1990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross Domestic Product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 5.2       9.0        4.8       5.0        5.2
Agriculture                       32.8    23.2    17.5    16.7    15.1    13.7                  1.7       3.C        3.8       4.0        4.2
Industry                          17.6    25.0    30.7    29.4    29.0    29.3                  8.1      13.6       3.9        5.0        5.5
Services                          49.6    51.8    51.8    53.9    55.9    57.0                  6.0       9.0       5.7        5.2        5.1
Consumption                        80.7    88.2    75.5    84.5    84.6    86.3                 6.2       7.3        3.8       5.0        5.2
Gross Dom. Investment              11.7    19.1    24.5    23.4    24.0    24.0                12.3      16.6        5.9       5.0        5.4
Exports GNFS                      23.8    17.2    28.0    19.2    19.4    18.4                  1.2      11.0       6.5        6.7       3.8
Import GNFS                       16.2    24.5    28.1    27.1    28,0    28.7                 10.6      11.7       3.4        4.5       4.3
Gross National Savings               18.0    10.1    22.0    12.0    12.0    11.0                -1.0      19.1       -6.6       5.0        4.9
As % cf GDP
al
1960    1970    1975    19E0a
Public Fipate (Central Gov-rnment)
Current R-vemu..                           ..      16.3    18.2      13.1
Current Expe-diturms                       ..      11.6      8.O     10.7
Current Surplues (+), deficit (-)          ..       4.7    10.2       2.4
Capital Expenditures                       ..       6.2      9.1      5.0
Foreign Financing                          ..       1.0      0.3      1.5
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Other Indicators
GNP growth rate (7.)                        5.2       6.5      6.8      4.8       5.0
GNP per capita growth rate (7/)             2.3       3.2      3.7       1.7      1.9
Energy c-onumption growth rate (7.)        11.6-~   11.3      10.7     10.0      10.0
ICOR                                        1.8      2.1       5.1      4.7       4.6
11arginal  -avings rate                    -0.035    0.214   -0.303    0.124    0.113
Import elasticity                           2.0      1.4       1.1      1.1       1.0
e1 Preliminary
b/ NienEg, manufacture and constructiom
./ Average 1966-70.
.not availablm



- 24 -
EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 5.3 million                                                                                                                  ANNEX I
GNP per capita: US$990                                                                                                                   PaRe 5 of 6
Annual Growth Rates at Constant Prices (03
Value                Actual                     Estimate                                   Projected
1978       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985      1986
External Trade -
Merchandise Exports                 675.5       13.8        5.8      -2.7       21.0       -15.9       13.3       5.7       1.8         6.4       4.2         1.4
primary                          515.0       13.2        9.4       -2.8       23.4       -20.0       16.1       6.1       1.1        6.8        4.1        0.5
Manufactures                     160.5       17.1      -11.2       -2.6       12.2         3.0        3.0       4.0       5.0         5.0        5.0       5.0
Merchandise imports                 859.7        4.6       -4.2       10.1        5.6        2.1        4.4       4.5       4.6         4.5        4.6       4.4
Food                              79.9        ..        23.0       10.0      -22.0         2.6        3.1       3.6      4.0         3.7        3.9        4.1
petroleum                        199.0        ..         6.3       12.3       -1.4        -2.8        3.7       4.1      4.1         4.1        4.1        3.5
.anufactures                      469.9        ..        -5.2       4.5       10.2         1.8        5.5       5.2       5.2         5.2        5.2       4.7
Other                            110.9        ..        -5.0        5.9        2.3         2.8        0.2      0.5       0.6         0.6        0.6        0.6
Prices
Export price index                             96.0      104.8      100.0      114.7       157.2      170.5    184.7    206.0        225.2      247.0      269.0
Import price index                             84.3       89.2      100.0      120.3       150.2      163.8    178.8    195.1        212.5      230.9      247.3
Terms of trade index                          113.9      117.5      100.0       95.3       104.6      104.1    103.3    105.6        106.0      107.0      108.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                             Average Annual Increase (7.)
(at Current Prices)                                     (at constant 1978 prices)
2/        3!
1960       1970       1975-      19801      1985       1990        1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Excorts                                         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0          8.0       10.0      6.0       5.5        3.0
Primary       4/                               97.2       83.0       80.0       84.7       83.4          ..         9.9     5.5        5.0        2.6
Manufactures                         ,           2.8      17.0       20.0       15.3       16.6          ..        14.3      8.2        7.5       5.2
Petroleum Products                                -         -          -          -          -
Emports                                          100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0         10.6       10.3     3.0        4.5        4.4
Food                                           15.0       16.8       14.5       12.3       12.2          ..        11.0     2.6        3.2        4.6
Petroleum                            ,,         6.5       19.5       31.9       34.8       37.1          ..         6.5     5.5        4.0        3.5
Manufactures                         ,.         37.2       28.4      46.0       45.6       43.9          ..        12.0      4.0        5.3       4.7
Others                                         41.3       35.3        7.6        7.3        6.9          ..         9.0     1.1        3.6        3.9
1/ Constant US0
_/ Infornations gives here are for 1974
3/ Trade classification changed after 1975
4/ Includes ferronickel
Nut available



'4'4'4'40'44C-0'.4
0'Q444'4' '
'40,'0'4'4'4'4'4'4
0'4'_ 4'4"'"40*r              '4* '4 - Z
0       '0
U09   '; X                  eX~^n__5o
0'                 0 '=  440 '' i    'o4 t <'4
'4          N  _''  0-4r4
'4~       ~~~~ '44   -444            .4.44.4,4.4 4H 
'4~~~~~~~~~~~ '.'..'4'4'4O  0  .D'4='4'44'mOO n 
'4  ~             ~             N _, 0,444444'   4Q4
0           .'' 4'' 00                 44      44  
s         _        <n_ggr_ '4  00  00  4          '0 ' 4,0.
E  n        o        N  ~O    4  ,  o,                4           0.4, ,X  
N ~ ~ ~~~'  0 v4 v4  4            
S ~     ~      ~      '0 " D4                        0"             40      4
E      X              >Xo44 '?       --0'           0              44       0f
c ~    ~     ~      0    0            0' a4                      04      4,r         eX ea   . t 0
4                 4    0      40            4              O4       .
_44 .4'                             -        40                4
40 '0 01 0 r.0                                     4,4     0    sg
_,          ~      44       4~            N-    h~rK  
0~~~ ~    ~ ""   0   '0>
_        0     4 4      04       4    4  0>_ D <   ,So 
_    4      4,      004             44            (-.      4   ,   
.o -        4, 0              4-                      4  
'4 :                                         014 -a_Vo    
W~ ~                                     -4 4:VC            



_26
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of March 31, 1981)
Loan or                                                             US$ million
Credit No.    Year           Borrower         Purpose      Amount (Less cancellations)
Bank    IDA      Undisb.
Three loans and two credits fully disbursed                   55.0    9.1 1/    -
352 DO      1973    Dominican Republic    Irrigation I         -    13.0       3.6
1051 DO      1974    Central Bank             Tourism I       21.0     -        6.4
1142 DO      1975    Dominican Republic    Education II    8.0                  5.9
1325 DO      1976    Dominican Republic    Population          5.0              1.3
1655 DO      1979    Dominican Republic    Irrigation II  27.0                 26.7
1760 DO      1979    State Sugar Council   Sugar              35.0             35.0
1699 DO      1979    Central Bank             Tourism II      25.0             24.6
1783 DO      1980    Dominican Republic    Emergency Rd.  25.0                 15.3
1784 DO      1980    Dominican Republic    Highways II    35.0                 29.5
Total                                             236.0   22.1    148.3
of which has been repaid                         16.3      -
Total now outstanding                             219.7   22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                        _          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 219.7   22.1
Total Undisbursed                                 144.7    3.6    148.3
1/   With exchange adjustment.



_ 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1981) 1/
Fiscal                                   Type of          Amount in US$ Million
Year            Borrower                 Business        Loan      Equity    Total
1974     Cementos Nacionales S.A.        Construction
Material         6.0        1.8       7.8
1978     Financiera Empresarial S.A.  Industrial
Credit           3.0         -       3.0
Total Gross Commitments                         9.0        1.8      10.8
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                                 3.3         -        3.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                        5.7        1.8       7.5
Total IJndisbursed
1/   In May 1980, a loan of $1.4 million, with an equity of $0.6 million,
was approved for Avicultura Asociada, S.A. for the establishment of
a Poultry Breeder Farm, and is now in process of cancellation.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 352-DO: Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; $13.0 Million Credit of
January 17, 1973: Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule and has suffered
cost overruns of the order of 131%. Reasons for the disappointing performance
include shortcomings in project management, problems in acquiring rights-of-
way, insufficiently qualified personnel for construction and supervision of
works and inadequate counterpart funds. On April 17, 1980, Congress approved
a Bill which will facilitate land acquisition by Government for redistribu-
tion, and allow appraisal expectations regarding the number of settled
families to be substantially met.
IDA and INDRHI (National Water Resource Institute) have recently
agreed on a project completion schedule. The Government has recently allo-
cated adequate counterpart funds for 1981.
A recent supervision mission found that although progress in the
execution of civil works is not in accordance with the agreed completion
schedule, the Government and the executing agency have provided financial and
administrative support which has already permitted significant progress. The
Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1981, on the understanding that there
would be no further extensions, and that undisbursed funds would be cancelled
at that time It is expected that about 25% of the civil works would have been
completed by that date.
Loan 1051 DO: Tourism I Project; $21.0 Million Loan of November 6, 1974:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982:
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other facil-
ities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata.  The Puerto Plata Airport, one of the major components, was completed               a
in 1979, and is in full operation with three airlines operating regular
and chartered flights. A 225-room bungalow hotel has been completed and an
apart-hotel is under construction.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
The Central Bank recently indicated that efforts to promote two
tourism sites at the same time (Playa Dorada and Playa Grande) are hampering
its investment promotion campaign, and it has therefore decided to give
priority to Playa Dorada, where infrastructure works have been completed
and investors' interest is gathering momentum. The completed accommodation
facilities are operating at high occupancy rates, facilities under construc-
tion are progressing satisfactorily, while negotiations for two further hotels
are being finalized. The bulk of infrastructure works in Playa Grande have
already been completed.  Assurances have been obtained that these works will
be adequately maintained, and that the remaining works in Playa Grande will
begin as soon as firm commitments for construction of superstructure are
obtained. The Bank extended the Closing Date to December 31, 1982.
Loan 1142 DO: Second Education Project; $8.0 Million Loan of July 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project was intended to finance the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 204 rural community learning centers, 4 agricultural training
centers, 3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools and
of 4 vocational training centers, a textbook feasibility study, and training.
The project is about 36 months behind schedule mainly because of lack of
support from the Ministry of Education during 1975 to 1978. Inflation has
severely affected project costs from US$13.5 million estimated at appraisal,
to US$18.5 million, or 37 percent above the original estimate. Consequently,
the Borrower requested a revision in the scope of the project in order to keep
the total project cost within the appraisal estimate. Portions deleted are:
the equipping of about 14 existing secondary schools, 4 vocational training
centers, and purchase of 8 mobile vocational training units. Acquisition of a
site for the Vocational Training School is being expedited. Construction of
120 schools was started, 34 have been completed, with completion of the rest
expected by the end of the year.
The Dominican Congress recently approved US$3 million counterpart
funds for implementation of this project and the newly appointed Minister
of Education is placing special emphasis on implementing the educational
aspects of the project. In this connection, an in-service teacher training
course in multigrate teaching techniques had been initiated with the technical
assistance financed by the Bank loan. The Closing Date has been extended to
June 30, 1982.
Loan 1325 DO: Population and Family Health; $5.0 Million Loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
The project provides for the reconstruction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contraception
programs and technical assistance.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Construction of the health sub-center and 22 rural clinics has been
completed and they are in service. The remaining 4 have been completed, but
the start of services has been delayed to allow additional time for comple-
tion of minor details.  A new governmental regulation on controls of frequency
ranges for telecommunications has hamipered the selection and acquisition of
the radio-communication system. However, the training component, involving
ten different courses for medical and para-medical staff, has been initiated
with the implementation of four different types of courses and the preparation
of teaching materials. The special equipment for malaria control, rural
clinics, training centers and maintenance workshops, has been selected. The
National Population and Family Council program continues to be satisfactory.
The Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1981.
Loan 1655 DO: Nizao Irrigation Project: $27.0 Million Loan of
February 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to increase agricultural productivity and
exports by rehabilitating and expanding the Marcos A. Cabral/Nizao-Najayo
irrigation system, including construction o^ 72 km. of roads. The Bank also
agreed to reconstruction of 2 km. of the Marcos A. Cabral Canal, damaged
by the hurricanes. The contract for construction of emergency works
was signed and works are underway. The project is more than one year behind
schedule, mainly because of delays in appointing the Regional Coordinating
Committee. In addition, INDRHI is having difficulties in providing funds
and staff for project management and organization. Construction of Phase
A works was completed in November 1980. Construction of the main irrigation
works under Phase B has been approved by the Bank and a contract signed
with the Spanish firm, AGROMAN, in December 1980. Construction has started.
The Bank approved use of loan funds to pay international consultants to assist
INDRHI in the supervision of works.  Procurement of heavy equipment for
construction and selection of consultants for supervision of construction,
is under way, but construction of canals and laterals by force account has
not started yet.
Loan 1699 DO: Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project:
$25 Million Loan of November 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The Project will provide a line of credit for hotel accommodations
and tourist services in Playa Grande, Playa Dorada and Puerto Plata; urban
works in the low lying area of Puerto Plata near the tourism pier; a handi-
crafts center for the training of artisans; technical assistance to INFRATUR,
the Secretariat of Tourism and the handicrafts center. The loan became
effective on September 9, 1980, but INFRATUR staff had been working for some
time to establish procedures for effective project implementation. Based on
initial applications for financing under the line of credit received by
INFRATUR, and on discussions with financial intermediaries and potential
investors, INFRATUR requested that the procurement arrangements be made
more flexible, as they were more stringent than those of standard IDF
operations and were likely to cause serious delays in project implementation.
They were amended, and the revised arrangements meet Bank requirements.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Although the hotel investment program is substantially behind
schedule, investor interest is gathering momentum, principally as a result
of the opening and operation of a 240-room golf villa project financed with
resources from the Central Bank. Several options have already been granted
and negotiations are under way for a variety of project proposals.  Negotia-
tions for the purchase of a building in Puerto Plata to locate the artisan
center, are well advanced and arrangements are being made with a German
expert, on the basis of terms of reference approved by the Bank, to provide
technical assistance for the artisan training component. Contracts for the
final design of the urban works in the city of Puerto Plata, have been signed.
Regarding technical assistance to the Ministry of Tourism and INFRATUR,
contracts have been signed for a study of the national economic impact of
tourism, for the design aspects of the evaluation of tourism projects, for
the development of a land disposal policy, and for the future organization of
the project areas into self-operating entities. Despite the delay by the
Dominican Congress in ratifying the loan, thus delaying effectiveness, all
project components have moved quickly to the implementation stage, and it is
expected that the funds will be utilized effectively over the next two to
three years.
Loan 1760-DO: Sugar Rehabilitation Project; $35 Million Loan of
October 26, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project will rehabilitate six of the 12 sugar factories and
their accompanying transportation systems of the Consejo Estatal del Azucar
(CEA), including irrigation and drainage studies.
Recent Congressional action resulted in refusal to approve the
cofinancing loan and this has put the project in jeopardy. The Government is
giving priority to the project, and the Bank recently held discussions with
CEA in this connection. It was agreed that CEA would seek Congressional
approval for the cofinancing of US$20 million needed for project investment;
that the Government and CEA would consider measures to improve the financial
position of CEA, in the areas of (1) export taxes; (2) dividend contributions
to Government; and (3) domestic price increases of sugar and molasses. The
Government is also being asked to ensure, in the absence of the cofinancing
loan, that timely funds would be made available to CEA to cover its annual
operating expenditures, and to submit to the Bank specific proposals for
meeting these requirements. The date of effectiveness has been extended to
June 30, 1981, to permit loan ratification by the Dominican Congress.
Loan 1783-DO: Emergency Road Reconstruction Project; $25 Million Loan
of January 8, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project would permit the reconstruction of two roads, totalling
150 km: the 86 km Cruce de Guayacanes to Santiago, the country's second
largest city, and the 64 km. Azua-Barahona road linking the southwestern
part of the country to the capital city.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Reconstruction works on the two project roads are well under way.
Some sections are being reconstructed by force account and other sections
through contracts awarded through local or international bids. Initial
delays, due to the fact that the loan only became effective on September 19,
1980, and to problems with the design, led the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications (SEOPC) to decide to re-program the works. All equipment
purchased under the loan are in operation.
Loan 1784-DO: Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project; $35 Million
Loan of January 8, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would (a) pursue the strengthening and expansion of
maintenance capacity; (b) initiate a high priority reconstruction program
for primary and secondary roads; (c) demonstrate the application of labor-
intensive techniques for rural roads; (d) upgrade personnel through training;
and (e) strengthening SEOPC's planning and programming capacity.
Final engineering designs for the reconstruction of the San Juan-
Las Matas de Farfan and Santo Domingo-San Pedro de Macoris roads were completed
in late April 1980, and final engineering for the selected 317 km of roads
has started. The loan became effective on September 9, 1980. The delay in
effectiveness caused by lack of Congressional approval affected project imple-
mentation and also delayed the bidding program. Bids have now been received
for all project works, and are being evaluated by SEOPC. Contracts have been
awarded for the purchase of maintenance and training equipment worth about
US$8.0 million. The Reconstruction Planning Unit was established in October
1980, and the labor-intensive Construction Unit is scheduled to start oper-
ations later this year.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
COCOA AND COFFEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT AND DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation-Preappraisal
Project Prepared by: SEA
Initial Request for Bank Financing:   September 1979
First Bank Mission to Consider Project:   January 1980
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:   November 1980
(c) Negotiations Completed: April 30, 1980
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned: October 8, 1981
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
A condition of Loan Effectiveness would be that the Government has
entered into a subsidiary agreement with BA, acceptable to the Bank, to pass
on US$22.5 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan as a capital contri-
bution, on conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 68). Assurances were
obtained that:
(i) The Government, the Bank and BA would annually review the terms and
conditions of BA's subloans for cocoa and coffee and, if necessary,
revise them (para. 64).
.
(ii) BA would not offer lines of credit to cocoa and coffee producers
at more favorable terms and conditions than those offered under
the proposed loan (para. 64).
(iii)  SEA would hire consultants on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, and would carry out overseas training programs
acceptable to the Bank (para. 70).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv)  To complement existing staff in project implementation, SEA
would hire 30 additional professional staff, for its Cocoa
Department, and 50 additional staff for its Coffee Department
and BA would hire 26 additional staff (para. 55).
(v)  Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year the
Bank would be provided with the results of an audit of the project
accounts, including the documentation supporting the statements of
expenditures of SEA and BA, and BA's financial statements, carried
out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 71).



IBRD 15282
7S~~~~~~~~~~~~                   70                                                             BAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.               JANUARY 1981
PUERTC, P~~ATA                     COCOA  AND  COFFEE                                                      "BAAA
:0:0: wa[o  '                                                                                 "                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        -.    BA
~Y~LIZE     AAIAIAI          PnoB
~M '/ ~< / 5> > Xt-t +~JS _t 5~@ and.  \ }   \       a        b       r        e      r a                 O            AM           AICA HUAITI  P-e-   R C.
S.b, L.,o. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. AVDP IAAUA
^                     \ i    j    P1> ~~~~~~~~~Sobono Lo~g .>E                            ,o, S B,nono        /1  P'00050 \                                                                                        l           AVA 
[~~~~ ~   ~~~                                    ~         ~     ~    ~          ~        ~     ~~~~ E B1.1 Pj- &   ian                                                        ,       , g  i :   
tdeCobrero~~~                                            ~       ~      ~     ~           ~          ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ... r  B -                                                                                   l
-?9-   9 a  > C.b,.,reroderegups                          i         tj    F  ELn;g.                         g/             _                                                     j .       - 619.  -. _
T-'> 'n:.J Vcl                        _Sonono_                                                                                                                                                              e 
"0e-                    f                                          d$o7                    \          nJoso d Oroo EI C,Dr               VI 0    /) '/ Bo1sonGU
LA R IAN ANAGe
No  0.0150  "-  17SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSC~o
/~~ ~~~~~~~~O P-4EscAn0TdA                                         -0,.- -  Agoido  SIMon
C- d. c.b".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onNlno
*  2 0  ; tr  t v               po o         0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SISTIMr COCOA PRODUCI NG A RFAS R lNOVATOaNI                                                                             
-li?F; i 9 |  - <                /:   i 2; 2:  Vi 1 OM T  9d i R       j 0    S0   SL1   40     0                   COCOA AREAS AFECTEDDY  A TONS   UNE 18781 ARO BY HURRICANE DAVID                SEONARY ROADS              18.
S  ii ei2 ;To4s1  pe5  2So::(i                                               ;            :    Q'rE I  -   -r    COFFEE AREAS AFFECTER BY IIORRICANE DAVID IBENOVATION)                                        S AO AROT
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RI CS                                                  i RD02  ; 50 '    35                                                                                                         MAJORe   :AIR \5;00    ;  S 7PORTS
COCOA.                                                              PORTS~b   d L.M.
i: 2\; 2     2:0;;i:0;: ;g 0 0: ;7 ;; r   \M ( ::: t; 5  2:0; : if: 2 ;g : : |  ::  :TO SE  N STAScRO                                                                                    PRFFVINCIALNCBAOOONAARES
4                    ,SePRs /.                           7TQ noRo                                                                TO DR INSTALLEDSb
Ti0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
C.,r.r. ci.Y.g-                                                                                                                                                          191-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D



