Document ot'
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1886b-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN SECTOR
EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
NIGER
April 28, 1978
Western Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1 = CFAF 245
The CFA (Communaute Financiere d'Afrique) Franc is fixed with
respect to the French Franc (1FF = CFAF 50) and floats with respect to
the US dollar. In this report the following conversion has been used:
US$1 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
AJ)B      African Development Bank
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
B])RN     Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
B'LAO     Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BFCE      Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
COFIFA    Compagnie Financiere France Afrique
CGPCT     Caisse de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales
CEAO      Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
DEG       Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellscaaft
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
ENA       Ecole Nationale d'Administration
KEW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
O]PEN     Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne
SONICA    Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile
STB       Societe Tunisienne de Banque
UI4OA     Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNIDO     United Nations International Development Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN SECTOR
EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
NIGER
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.    THE SETTING  ......****e***************e***************......                          1
The Industrial Sector  . ....    .   .... .        o. ........ .. .... ........        2
The Financial Sector  ........   *o.           .... ...... o.oo .... ..e.*e ....       2
Prospects ..o.............................. mo.-... ao........ .oo ......              3
II.   INSTITUTIONS  - ........ o.. ..       . ....* ..... .          ...*        *...        6
Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger  (BDRN)  ...                         6
The Artisan Center of the National Museum of Niger ........ ..                       15
III. THE PROJECT  ......-......                        ...... o.........................    16
Objectives  o. - ..... o.............................. 0 -......                     16
Main Features .....  -oo.........................................                    18
Project Costs and Financing  ........                ..................... ...       23
Implementation  .-....-. .... -.......... . . . ...... .  .                          24
Benefits and Justification                     ..............                        26
Risks ...... o.........................................  ... ..                      27
IV.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .......           ...................... ..............              28
This report was prepared by Barbara Insel and Christian Delvoie on the basis
of the appraisal mission conducted by Ms. Insel, Mr. Theodore Nkodo and Mr.
Delvoie in November 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



List of Annexes
1.   BDRN:  Summary and Analysis of Development Financing Operations.
2.   BDRN:  State Credits Portfolio
3.   BDRN:  Financial Statements, 1973-77
4.   BDRN:  Forecast Financial Statements and Assumptions for Forecasts
5.   BDRN:  Financial Ratios, 1973-82
6.   BDRN:  Pipeline of Projects
7.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
8.   Selected Documents and Data Available on Project File



I. THE SETTING
1.01      The discovery of uranium has recently opened enormous opportunities
for development to Niger which, with few resources and a stagnating economy,
had long been considered-one of the most desperately poor countries in the
world 1/. Largely as a result of highly profitable uranium mining, which
began on a large scale in 1971, Niger has shown a stronger recovery than most
of its Sahelian neighbors from the disastrous impact of the 1970-75 drought:
Following a 14% decline in GNP from 1971-73, Niger's overall real GNP growth
from 1974-76 exceeded 32%.  In 1976 alone, the real increase in GNP exceeded
18% 2/. However poor rains in 1977 threatened the recurrence of the drought
and continued economic stringency. Prudent fiscal and monetary policies have
kept inflation in the five-year period 1972-76 to just 32%, although this
figure may be underestimated.
1.02      On a gross value basis, uranium exports totaling over $90 million
accounted for 52% of total exports in 1976 and, together with transfer and
capital inflows, are responsible for Niger's current balance of payment sur-
plus. Taxes and dividends on uranium development represented at least one
quarter of government revenue in 1976-77, permitting the Government to start
reducing the tax burden on lower income groups and to allocate rapidly in-
creasing amounts to the investment budget, which more than tripled in two
years to CFAF 10 billion in 1976-77. However, Niger remains a very poor
country, having a per capita income of only $160 in 1976. The expected in-
creases in uranium revenues and the development potential of other mineral
resources, including coal and petroleum, will represent for some time only
a fraction of the resources needed to create opportunities for more produc-
tive employment of Niger's population of 4.7 million 3/.
1.03      Agricultural and livestock activities which sustain 90% of the
population accounted for only 51.4% of the 1976 GNP, somewhat below their
1972 share. During the 1968-74 period, increasingly unfavorable weather,
culminating in the disastrous drought, resulted in a 40 % decline in the
output of the staple crops (millet and sorghum) while production of ground-
nuts, the single most important export crop, fell by 70% and the size of
cattle herds was almost reduced to half. Production of the main staples,
which improved in 1974-75 due to improved rainfall and increases in producer
prices, declined again in 1975-76 to about 80% of the pre-drought level
because of poor rains in some of the principal cultivation areas. The food
*         situation has significantly improved in 1976-77 with normal rainfall, but
substantial reinvestment will be needed in agriculture and extension services
to reactivate the rural sector, overcome past neglect, and revive the produc-
*         tion of the major export crops, particularly groundnuts.  With these con-
tinuing problems, the rural sector is slowly yielding economic importance
1/   The latest economic report on Niger, Report Number 1109a-NIR, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976.
2/   IMF Staff estimates.
3/   Pilot surveys in preparation for the forthcoming population census
gggeStm8kjoNhis figure may have to be revised upwards to as much



to commerce, industry and mining. The non-mining industrial sector, including
transport and construction, represented 24.7% 1/ of GDP in 1976 and is expand-
ing rapidly; commercial activities added another 16% to GDP. Development
of more product:Lve employment opportunities in the industrial sector is the
objlective of th:Ls IDA project and is considered essential to the balanced and
efficient growth of Niger's economy.
The Industrial Sector
1.04      The Government's development objectives within the industrial sector
are expansion oi- small-scale and artisan enterprises, stimulation of private
investment, import substitution, the processing of agricultural and livestock
products and regional diversification. Twenty-five companies employing a
total of 3,000 persons constitute the core of the modern non-construction
industrial sub-sector. Only ten of these enterprises have annual sales
exceeding CFAF 250 million ($1 million); total sales of these ten represent
83% of total turnover for the modern sub-sector. Of total industrial equity
capital in 1976, about 47% was;public, 15% private and 38% foreign.  Eleven
new modern sector enterprises to employ 300 persons, are in preparation. The
participation of private Nigerien capital in industrial investment is increas-
ing significantly, reflecting a shift of entrepreneurial interest from com-
merce and transport to industry: of the 11 new enterprises, only one has
public participation and one foreign, that for a minority interest. The
burgeoning construction sector employs well in excess of 8,000 persons.
Several Nigerien-owned companies, the largest of which employs 800 people,
account for 45% of total construction employment, the balance represented by
four foreign-owned companies.
1.0)5     The artisan sub-sector is probably the dominant component of the
industrial sector and therefore a high priority for assistance, but there is
no accurate data to measure its real contribution; best estimates of artisan
employment range up to 25,000 persons. The highest skilled of these artisans
have maintained traditional techniques of handwork in leatherwork, silverwork,
weaving and pottery. The largest concentration of these workers are in
Niamey, Maradi, Zinder and Agadez, with small groups of leatherworkers also
located in Tessaoua, Tahoua and Dosso. The Artisan Center of the National
Museum of Niger, in Niamey, has become the focal point for these so-called
ari:istic-artisans, providing various services as well as the only organized
market mechanism for the work of about 160 affiliated artisans.
The Financial Sector
1.06      As a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), Niger shares
a common currency (CFAF), Central Bank (BCEAO) and credit and monetary poli-
cies with Senegal, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Upper Volta. BCEAO supervises
alL of Niger's f-inancial institutions and, under its operating guidelines,
establishes credit ceilings, interest rates and controls outstanding credit
through its rediscount facility.
1/   Imports typically represent 20% to 24% of Niger's GNP.



- 3 -
1.07      The Banking System.  Six institutions comprise the Nigerien banking
system. The Caisse de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales (CPCT) finances
regional infrastructure projects. Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile
(SONICA) finances personal vehicles. Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(CNCA) serves the agricultural sector exclusively. Credit du Niger provides
housing and consumer loans. Niger has two commercial banks: the Banque
Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BIAO) and the Banque de Developpement
de la Republique du Niger (BDRN), which also provides development banking
services. All financial institutions except BIAO are publicly owned or con-
trolled and Nigerien managed. In 1975, BDRN provided more than 63% of all
credits in the economy and more than 80% of all term credits to industry.
BDRN's assets currently exceed fifteen times the assets held by Niger's other
development institutions. French-owned BIAO is about one-third the size of
BDRN and has focused primarily on foreign-owned and well-established enter-
prises in its services to industry. BDRN is thus the key financial interme-
diary for the development of Niger's industrial sector.
1.08      Interest Rates.  BCEAO regulates all interest rates charged by banks
in BCEAO member countries. A standard rediscount rate of 8.0% is charged,
with an allowable spread of up to 5%, permitting a final maximum of 13%.
A preferential rediscount rate of 5.5% is authorized for priority sectors
including Government, housing, small-scale enterprises (defined as locally
owned enterprises having outstanding credit of CFAF 20 million or less) and
agricultural trade. For such loans, banks are allowed a spread of up to 3%,
resulting in a final maximum lending rate of 8.5%. The interest rate ceiling
applies to all credits by all member banks. Member banks are allowed to
rediscount only 35% of their total credits. As a result, the preferential
rate structure makes it difficult for the banks to mobilize external resources
for lending to the preferential sectors as the cost of non-rediscount resources
tends to be too high to permit the banks adequate margins on these loans.
Thus, while these preferential rates may stimulate SSE demand for funds, as
intended, they at the same time restrain the supply of funds available for
this purpose. To resolve this problem BCEAO permits a member state to create
an interest subsidy fund, financed by BCEAO profits in that state, to com-
pensate the intermediary for the interest rate preferential. The Government
of Niger has agreed to subsidize in this manner BRDN's financing for enter-
prises falling under BCEAO's interest rate ceiling for small-scale enterprises.
This arrangement has been accepted by the Association as acceptable policy for
SSE projects in UMOA countries.
Prospects
1.09      The stimulus of an improving domestic economy plus the consider-
able impact of the growing trade with Nigeria, its southern neighbor, offer
attractive prospects for Niger's industrial development.
1.10      To serve domestic requirements, there is reasonable potential for
further development in import substitution industries, in the processing
of local materials, including agricultural products, in the production and
repair of equipment for agriculture and in the construction industries.
Specific examples of possible projects which have been tested and found



- 4 -
vLable include, knitwear, cotton, wool, bandages--all of which could use
materials manuEactured in the large local textile mill. Other promising
products include small agricultural implements, animal feed, plastic prod-
ucts for household use, confectionery, matches, plastic packaging materials,
dehydrated onions, some vegetable products, and meat canning. To serve the
several new towns being developed for mining and rural development projects,
increased breadmaking, confectionery, furniture making, printing facilities,
anid expanded metal workshops will be required. There are also further pos-
siLbilities in the by-products arising out of livestock processing such as
glue, gelatin, bone meal and organic fertilizer. To realize this potential,
aclditional slaughtering capacity will be required. Expansion of the cons-
truction industry would present opportunities for expanded manufacture of
bricks, tiles, clay pipes, ceramic ware and enameling.
1.11      The 1,800 km border between Niger and Nigeria represents an in-
creasingly critical factor in Niger's development. Nigeria's continuing and
widespread shortages, extensive trade regulations, and the free convertib-
ility of the CFAF have all stimulated the growth of an enormous and expanding
parallel market, strongly founded on a common culture, language and social
relationship longer standing than the political borders. Although the pre-
mium paid for the CFAF in Nigeria would appear to favor exports of Nigerian
products, this premium is far outweighed by the growing excess demand in
Nigeria for a wide variety of goods and recently the trade balance has heavily
favored Niger. Rapid development in Northern Nigeria has opened active
markets for metalwork, glass, livestock products, bricks, sugar, soap, cattle
and poultry feed, farm implements, blankets and food products from Niger.
Free transferability of profits encourages the location in Niger of foreign
investments to serve the northern Nigerian market. Legalization of this
border trade, which is being discussed, would further stimulate such develop-
ment, if only by allowing greater access to financing. This trade has had a
major indirect impact on Nigerien industrial development: the wealth earned
by the southern Nigerien traders in the Nigeria market is now being invested
in productive enterprises in Niger and has thus become an important source of
industrial capital for Niger.
1.12      In addition, while the domestic and tourist markets for the products
of the artistic artisans offer limited possibility for expansion, the poten-
tial export market for these goods appear substantial. This market is ex-
pected to be stable, and given the ample local supply of good raw materials
and basic skills, the prospects penetrating and developing this market appear
excellent if the needed financial and technical assistance are provided.
Growth of regional groupings and markets such as CEAO and ECOWAS will also
contribute to industrial growth.  Although it is too early to identify
specific projects and benefits which may be realized by these groups, both
organizations have agreed that, for their initial five years of operation,
first consideration will be given to regional projects implemented by their
poorest member states.
1.].3     Constraints.  The recent growth in Niger's industrial sector is re-
markable given the obstacles to efficient development. These obstacles will
have to be overcome to permit continued sound expansion of the sector. High



- 5 -
transport costs from this landlocked country and poor facilities inhibit
trade and complicate the import of materials and equipment. High energy
and construction costs and inadequate local production capacity for building
materials further hinder development. Niger's scarcity of skilled labor,
reflecting inadequate vocational and technical training services, is pervasive
and perhaps the most severe in the region. Labor and production costs are
significantly higher than in neighboring countries. The needs for technical
assistance are substantial and, at present, little such help is available,
except on a limited scale from BDRN. Investment capital is scarce and term
financing resources are inadequate. Balanced development of the sector is
further restricted by a poor incentive system and burdensome regulations.
1.14      Although the Government has intervened to assist the industrial
sector by making available public equity capital for industrial investment and
by the establishment of two investment codes, the overall impact of government
regulations tends to increase the difficulty of new investment, especially for
small and artisanal enterprises. For example, under both 1/ investment codes,
neither artisans nor modern enterprises with fixed assets less than CFAF 10
million are eligible for any investment incentives. Maximum concessions are
provided to projects having investments larger than CFAF 500 million, employ-
ment of more than 500 persons or with value added exceeding CFAF 500 million
per annum. Concessions authorized by these codes include tax holidays, import
privileges and trade protection. All but the largest enterprises are required
to pay taxes on the export of indigenous materials such as leather. In addi-
tion, all investment projects requesting either public incentives or financing
from public institutions must await Government review and approval by the
Conseil National de Developpement (CND), a process often involving extended
delay and inconvenience. CND, the main governmental organization responsible
for implementation of development policies, is composed of the Ministers
responsible for the productive sectors: Economy, Public Works, Rural Develop-
ment, etc., and chaired by the Minister of Plan. CND must approve all applica-
tions for investment incentives or for financing from public institutions,
following project review by the relevant Ministry--which, for the industrial
sector, is the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Industry and Commerce. To
qualify for CND approval, enterprises are obligated to: (i) give priority to
use of local materials and spare parts, (ii) implement preagreed programs to
train Nigeriens, (iii) offer equity participation to local investors, and (iv)
obtain government approval of product prices before any sales are made. The
Government's approval is required prior to sale for the prices of all products.
Authorized prices are calculated according to a cost plus formula which dis-
courages efficient management. Moreover, since the method of price determi-
nation requires an enterprise to present cost calculations based on actual
operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, a company is obliged
to build up a considerable stock of finished goods and to incur substantial
start-up costs before actually selling its product.
1/   The first code offers general incentives to both Nigerien and foreign
investments; the second code is specifically intended to stimulate
private Nigerien enterprises (defined as enterprises with at least
80% Nigerien equity ownership).



-6-
1.15      A Government commission is presently reviewing the whole structure
of policies and incentives with the objective of rationalizing these regula-
tions. The Association will advise the Government on these issues. The
importance of s:Lmplifying these procedures and eliminating non-economic fea-
tures will be stressed. Elimination of present discrimination against smaller
enl:erprises and artisans, as the first step in the longer process of policy
rei-orm, is an iammediate objective of the proposed IDA credit. Toward this
end, assurances have been received that all expenditures financed under the
IDA line of credit will be exempt from all taxes and duties on goods and
services as normally authorized in the investment codes. Small enterprises
and artisans assisted by the credit therefore will be accorded benefits
equivalent to those offered by the codes. Major constraints to industrial
development are expected to be relieved under this project by improving the
access of small enterprises and artisans to term financing, encouraging the
more efficient use of scarce capital in more labor intensive investment,
improving the quality of technical assistance presently available to Nigerien
enltrepreneurs and improving the quality of the primary financing institution,
BDRN. The deve:Lopment of an office for the promotion of Nigerien enterprises
wiLl expand the technical assistance services available to local businesses.
The artistic arltisans sub-sector, whose development potential has been rela-
tively neglected to date, will also be assisted through the improvement of
services offered by the Artisan Center of the National Museum.
II. INSTITUTIONS
2.01      Two existing institutions are expected to be primary intermediaries
for this projecIt: The Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
(BDRN) and the Artisan Center of the National Museum of Niger.
Ba_nque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BDRN)
2.02      BDRN was created in 1961 by the Government of Niger with the assis-
tance of Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB), which is still providing tech-
nical assistance through seconded staff. BDRN has, since inception, been
both a commercial and a development bank. Six branch offices are presently
in operation and three additional branches will be opened through 1979. No
other financial institution in Niger has such widespread regional operations.
2.03      Ownership.  BDRN's initial share capital of CFAF450 million has
increased to CFAF 1.150 billion. The distribution of shares, as described
in Table 1 below, has changed little since 1962. As required by statute,
Government and parastatal entities control the majority of BDRN's shares.
A iEurther increase in BDRN's capital is being discussed.



7 -
Table 1: BDRN OWNERSHIP
Shareholder                         Amount                     %
(CFAF Millions)
Government                           330.1                   28.7
Nigerien Public and Parastatal
Organizations                      268.8                   23.4
Sub-total                       598.9                   52.1
Nigerien Private Investors            97.0                     8.4
BCEAO                                100.0                    8.7
Foreign Banks 1/                     327.9                   28.6
Foreign Private Shareholders          25.4                    2.0
Total                         1,150.0                  100.0
1/   CCCE (8.7% of capital), Credit Lyonnais (5.7%), DEG
(5.7%), STB (5.7%), BFCE (2.2%) and COFIFA (.6%).
2.04      Board of Directors.  BDRN's Board consists of eleven members.
The Minister of Finance is the Chairman of the Board on which five more
seats are reserved for Government representatives and BCEAO, one is re-
served for Nigerien private shareholders and the remainder allocated to
foreign interests. Since July 1976, the Board has delegated all powers
to authorize credits to a Credit Committee composed of the Board Chairman,
two Government representatives, the National Manager of BCEAO and BDRN's
General Manager. The General Manager has the authority to approve short-
term credits below CFAF50 million and medium-term credits below CFAF15 mil-
lion. The Credit Committee must approve all loans above these ceilings and
all loans with maturities longer than 10 years.
2.05      Management.  For several years, BDRN's management was provided by
STB, the first Nigerien General Manager being appointed in 1968. In 1974,
following the change in Government, new management was appointed, which
was dismissed in 1976 on discovery of a series of questionable loans and
inadequate credit controls. The present General Manager, appointed in March
1976, was formerly an official in the Ministry of Finance and the Office of
the President. Although lacking prior banking experience, he has shown an
impressive grasp of BDRN's problems and is acting effectively to resolve
them. In July 1976, the organization was restructured into six new Depart-
ments: Commitments, responsible for overall exposure control; Development;



Administration; International Relations; Finance and Accounting; and Opera-
tions. New management was brought in for the Commitments and Operations
Departments. The General Manager, who has strong government support, is
competent to lead BDRN in an efficient manner. He has requested technical
support for the further strengthening of the institution.
2.06      Staff.  BDRN's management personnel are of good caliber but thinly
spread. Out of a total staff of 379, 46 persons may be considered profes-
sional, of whom eight are managers, and only four have university degrees.
BDRN's professional staff, however, is still the strongest of any institution
in Niger and BDRN has therefore seconded six members of this staff to manage
newly promoted projects. Three Tunisian advisers and a French volunteer
constitute BDRN's total expatriate staff. One Tunisian adviser has served
effectively as BDRN's Director of Accounts and Finance for nine years but is
expected to leave within two years. A counterpart is to be appointed this
summer. An economist/project analyst has just been appointed as the third
Tunisian adviser. The other adviser provides general assistance to the
Director.
2.07      Training.  Presently staff training is arranged on a case-by-case
basis and provides little assistance in developing staff capabilities in
project appraisal or credit management. Development of internal training
programs and recruitment of additional qualified staff are priorities for
BDRN's management. At present no institution in Niger provides specialized
training in finance and banking; a program in management is to be established
at the Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA), a UNDP-founded institution,
in the fall of 1978. The Nigerien Association of Banks, led by BDRN, has
requested the development of a banking management specialization within this
program.
2.08      Policies and Operating Guidelines.  BDRN's most recent policy state-
ment limits equity investments in a company to 25% of the company's share
capital and 15% of BDRN's net worth, whichever is smaller. BDRN's total equity
portfolio is limited, by statutes, to 100% of BDRN's available equity after
allowing for fixed assets. These limits are satisfactory. The policy state-
ment has recently been modified to limit BDRN's financial exposure in favor of
a single firm to 25% of net worth and its commitment to an individual project
to 75% of total project cost, with an exception allowed for a certain high
priority and economically beneficial projects such as SSE.
2.09      Foreign Exchange Risk.  To date, BDRN's treatment of exchange risk
has been negotiated on a case-by-case basis; BDRN has assumed the risk on
only one occasion, a 1967 KfW loan of DM 2 million. The Government has agreed
to assume the foreign exchange risk on this proposed IDA credit. We will
encourage BDRN to avoid assuming exchange risk in future financings.
2.10      Interest Rates.  In accordance with BCEAO guidelines, BDRN inter-
est rates on term loans now range from 8% to 10.5% and from 6.5% to 13.5%
on short-term credits. Deposit rates range from 2.5% to 6.75%. Interest
rates on term loans in the past were not set according to any fixed policy;
rates on the existing portfolio range from 5.5% to 10.5%. BDRN's management



- 9 -
is now interested in establishing a policy in which rates will be based on
the real cost of resources with assurance of a minimum adequate margin on
these operations.
2.11      Internal Control.  Procurement procedures are generally adequate.
A more effective disbursement control policy is being instituted to insure
disbursement only after verification of work performed and goods delivered.
BDRN's accounting practices appear acceptable but professional review is
needed. Improvements in internal control and information systems are also
needed. BDRN's first external audit has recently been completed and imple-
mentation of proposed reforms in internal systems has been initiated. BDRN
has also agreed to an annual audit of its accounts by an independent firm
acceptable to IDA.
2.12      Commercial Banking Operations.  Commercial operations represent
80% of BDRN's business and its primary source of profits. BDRN executes all
commercial transactions, including agricultural trade credits, documentary
credits, overdrafts, and international transactions. After fifteen years
in operation, BDRN is an effective commercial banking institution which has
facilitated access of Nigerien enterprises to commercial credit, a service
formerly dominated by foreign interests. Through its commercial business,
BDRN has developed a large commercial clientele which has proved its most
important asset in building its development financing and promotion activi-
ties. BDRN's commercial operations are expected to continue to support and
complement its development activities.
2.13      Development Department.  The Development Department is responsible
for all medium- and long-term financing activity for public and private sec-
tors, all economic research, project studies and statistical analysis, and
for the management of the equity portfolio. To supervise a portfolio of
more than CFAF4.8 billion, this Department presently has a staff of 11.
Except for the Director who attended an EDI course, none of the staff mem-
bers have specialized or advanced training. There is no adequately trained
Nigerien economist nor engineer. The newly-arrived Tunisian economist is
expected to help improve the Department's work but further strengthening
will be required.
2.14      Promotion.  BDRN's Development Department has been remarkably active
in project promotion; the vast majority of projects approved in recent years
were promoted and packaged by BDRN for Government and local investors. BDRN
provided the major share of financing for these projects through combined
credits and equity investments and, in five cases, BDRN even detached members
of its staff to organize and manage the company. BDRN, through these promo-
tion activities, has played a crucial role in filling the enterpreneurial gap
in the country. BDRN does not, however, have the staff capability to properly
prepare many of these projects. Needs for technical assistance are substan-
tial, as most of Niger's entrepreneurs are poorly trained and have little
industrial experience. As a result, several of BDRN's promoted projects
have not been properly conceived and some are likely to encounter difficulty.
BDRN's strong concern for the promotion of development projects, and its own
involvement in many such projects, has strained its limited staff resources,



- 10 -
and restricted both its capacity to process new financings and its efforts
to improve the q[uality of these activities. The development of an independent
but coordinate agency for industrial promotion and technical assistance will
relieve these pressures on BDRN and strengthen its development banking role.
2.15      Procedlures.  Appraisals for term credits and equity investments
are carried out by the Development Department. The quality of these studies
is acceptable but needs improvement. Project follow-up and supervision is
weak, but improvements are being made. A staff member has recently been
assigned to full-time supervision of BDRN's equity portfolio.
2.16      Develcpment Resources and Operations.  BDRN's major resources for
its development banking operations are equity, term deposits, a fixed small
percentage of sight deposits, BCEAO rediscount and term borrowings from CCCE
and from USAID through the USAID/Conseil de 1'Entente African Enterprise
Program and KfW. BDRN is now seeking to expand and diversify its resource
base and has recently signed an agreement with ADB for a 2 million units of
account line of credit to be used primarily for financing larger projects.
Undisbursed resources as of September 30, 1977 totaled CFAF 702 million,
representing the ADB credit (CFAF 526 million equivalent) and the balance of
second USAID/Conseil de l'Entente loan (CFAF 176 million), which is fully
committed. Repayment of the outstanding portfolio will also contribute
substantial funds each year.
2.17      A summary and analysis of BDRN's outstanding development financ-
ing portfolio is included in Annex 1. BDRN provides term financing for all
economic activities, except personal automobile purchase and housing. This
portfolio includes medium-term credits (2 to 10 years), long-term credits
(more than 10 years) and equity investments. BDRN has not found it necessary
to approve any long-term loans since 1974; the majority of such loans had been
reschedulings of medium-term loans in difficulty or reorganization of existing
companies including debt restructuring. The outstanding long-term portfolio
at September 30, 1977 totalled CFAF 620 million.
2.113     The medium-term portfolio is composed of 141 loans totaling almost
CFAF 3.6 billion. One large loan, the Government guaranteed Cominak project,
represents 35% of the amount of the portfolio.  Almost 90% by number of BDRN's
loans have assisted private concerns. These loans for an average amount of
CFAF 8 million represent only 30% of BDRN's total outstanding medium-term
portfolio. More than half of the medium-term loans have assisted very small
enterprises having a total investment below CFAF 10 million.  Agricultural
processing, varied light industry, construction and commercial transport are
the primary sectors assisted by BDRN's development financing. The volume of
small-scale operations declined in 1977 with the exhaustion of the two USAID/
Conseil de l'Entente lines of credit for SSE under the African Enterprise
Program. On the average, BDRN's participation in the financing of its medium-
terni portfolio represents 63% of the overall project cost. The weighted
average loan maturity of BDRN's medium-term loans is 5.1 years, although the
maturities of loans to SSE have tended to be shorter. Table 2 summarizes
BDRN's development financing approvals since 1973; the variation in the pace
of these activities reflects the changes in management as well in as economic
conditions.



Table 2:  Development Operations
Medium-Term Credits                        1973              1974                1975                 1976               1977
Number of Credits                       19                54                 46                    25                 9
Amounts                               732                531                315                2,392  c/            541.8
Average size of Credit                  38.5               9.8                6.8                 95.7-              60.2
of which:
Number of Credits smaller                                                                                              d
than CFAF30 million                  na                 30-                22                   21                  5'
Amounts such loans                      na               116.4               43.3                139.3               28.8
Average size of Credit                  na                 3.9                2.0                  6.6                5.8
Long-Term Credit
Number of Credits                        1                 1                                       -
Amounts                                 25                62
Average size of Credit                  25                62
Total Credits
Number of Credits                       20                55                 46                   25                  9
Amounts                                757                                  315                2,392                541.8
Average size of Credit                  37.8              10.8                6.8                 95.7               60.2
Equity
Number of Investments                    6                 3                  1                    1                  2
Amounts                                202.5-             56.0               83.6                  6.57              62.5
Average size Investment                 33.7              18.6               83.6                  6.57              31.3
a/  Reflects beginning of USAID/Conseil de l'Entente African Enterprise Probram, also reflected by  reducLion  in avera_-
credit size.
b/ Includes one loan, 2 billion CFA to COMINAK, a new parastatal uranium company, of which CFAF1 million was immediately
rediscounted with BCEAO.
c/  Average distorted by the above mentioned loan.  If this is excluded, average loan size is 5.2 million.
d/ Conseil de l'Entente line of credit for PME fully disbursed.



- 12 -
2.19      African Enterprise Program.  BDRN's active lending to small-scale
enterprise began in May 1974 with its first line of credit for the African
Enterprise Program, financed by USAID through the Conseil de 1'Entente. BDRN
disbursed its first $1 million line of credit for the program in 22 months for
48 projects, proving to be the most effective of the four national development
banks in Conseil de l'Entente countries participating in the program. With
the assistance of the Conseil de l'Entente, a separate SSE unit was estab-
lished in the Development Department to manage this program; the Conseil also
provided technical assistance and some training to the Chief of this unit, who
is now Deputy Director of the Development Department. African Enterprise
Program funds provided short- and medium-term credits for African enterprises
in industry, commerce, service and artisan sectors, under a fairly low free
limit. Average maturities of credits under this program tended to be somewhat
shorter than other development operations as most of the amounts required were
quite small or included working capital; the program authorized maturities of
up to five years and financing for a maximum of 60% of total project cost
including working capital, the balance to be provided by the promoter. The
Conseil refinanced the entire BDRN credit. The 40% self-financing requirement
has been a disincentive to small enterpreneurs who have had difficulty raising
more than 10-20% of total project costs; many otherwise eligible entrepeneurs
were turned away because they lacked the necessary equity contribution. Loans
were originally made at an interest rate of 6.33%; this rate was increased in
1976 to 8%. The USAID/Conseil de l'Entente line of credit has a 30-year term;
BDRN will, therefore, have substantial opportunity to revolve these funds. A
sezond line of credit for $1 million was signed in April, 1977 and is already
fully committed for three commercial transport projects.
2.20      Employment Creation.  More than 1,600 jobs have been created through
pr:jects in BDRN's outstanding portfolio.  Under the African Enterprise Pro-
gram, the median investment per job was only about $2,000, for commercial and
artisanal services. The median cost per job for medium and large scale
projects was about $8,500 - including one particularly attractive large
project, an edible oil processor employing 400 workers at an investment per
job of $4,000. Excluding this project, the median cost per job for BDRN's
larger projects exceeded $20,000 and ranged as high as $50,000 - a range
maintained in projects expected to be approved in the first six months of
1978. This high job creation cost reflects the high cost of construction and
diEficulties of equipment imports and frequent overdesign of projects.
Lacking any teclhnical capability, BDRN's staff and Niger's entrepreneurs have
beien completely dependent on suppliers' proposals and available financing in
thes choice of equipment for new projects. An engineer is therefore being
provided under the proposed project, to be shared by OPEN and BDRN, to advise
on more efficient and labor intensive project design as well as to encourage
the development of more appropriate technologies for Nigerien projects.
Achieving a substantial improvement in labor utilization and capital effi-
ciisncy in BDRN projects is a primary objective of the proposed project.
2.21      Equity Investments.  BDRN's equity portfolio totals CFAF 858 million
for 35 companies of which 17 are publicly controlled and five are foreign con-
trolled. Four of these companies, representing investments of CFAF 183 million



- 13 -
or 21% of portfolio, are in liquidation. Two of these projects were foreign-
owned companies purchased as subsidiaries by the previous management. Both
of these companies have recently been sold at reasonable prices. Partial
recovery of losses on the third company is expected through sale of its assets
to a new -nterprise. Eight other companies, representing investments of CFAF
160 million, have been unprofitable. Provisions taken on these two groups of
investments total CFAF 212 million, reducing net portfolio to CFAF 646 mil-
lion. Dividends received on equity participations in 1977 amounted to CFAF 27
million, or 4% of net portfolio. The remaining portfolio appears sound; BDRN
has improved its investment selection and control procedures to avert further
problems in the future.
2.22      BDRN frequently takes small participations in projects it finances,
receiving in return a seat on the company's Board. The substantial BDRN and
public sector participation in Nigerien enterprises reflects the general scar-
city of equity funds in economy. Through its commercial banking contacts,
BDRN has played an important role in bringing more local private capital into
the industrial sector, obtaining and managing funds provided by successful
Nigerien traders for investment in BDRN-promoted and managed projects.
2.23      State Transactions.  In addition to its normal development and
commercial banking operations, BDRN has assisted in the financing of several
projects for the State of Niger; BDRN's outstanding portfolio of such credits
amounted to CFAF6.3 billion as of September 30, 1977 (Annex 2). Of this total,
CFAF3.1 billion are loans with an average maturity of 4.7 years, authorized
by conventions with the Ministry of Finance, the balance representing bridge
financing for projects for which other financing is expected or for which
financing is not yet arranged. The volume of these transactions has doubled
since their introduction in 1975. BDRN performs no evaluation of any of
these projects which are fully secured by State guarantees. Concurrent with
the growth in these credits, State Treasury deposits for terms of six months
renewable, have increased from more than CFAF3 billion in 1975 to more than
CFAF8 billion in 1977. Lacking appropriate term resources for its non-
rediscountable State credits, BDRN has typically drawn upon these Treasury
deposits to finance these credits. We have received formal assurances from
the Government that the State will at all times maintain sufficient otherwise
uncommitted resources at BDRN to cover all outstanding credits in BDRN's State
Credits portfolio so as to maintain BDRN's financial equilibrium.
2.24      Financial Position.  As seen in the financial statements in Annex 3,
in the 1973-77 period, BDRN's total assets nearly tripled from CFAF11.6 bil-
lion ($47 million) in 1973 to CFAF33.4 billion ($136.5 million) in 1977.
This growth represents primarily expanded commercial operations, although
the development portfolio nearly doubled in the period and state credit
transactions were initiated. Total net worth more than doubled in the same
period. BDRN's ratio of long-term debt to equity, .56:1 as of September 30,
1977, is low, indicating BDRN retains considerable term borrowing capacity.
BDRN conforms with BCEAO regulations limiting total debt to equity to 12:1.
2.25      Arrears.  Outstanding credits, including commercial, in BDRN's
portfolio totalled CFAF21.2 billion (US$86 million) as of September 30, 1977,



- 14 -
vit:h doubtful loans and those in litigation amounting to CFAF4.1 billion,
or about 19% of the outstanding portfolio. Short-term loans to three major
Nigerien companies represent CFAF2 billion, or almost half of the total value
of doubtful and contentious loans. Resolution of the difficulties with these
three clients in a manner favorable to BDRN has been negotiated.  However,
a capital increase is being considered for 1979, in case substantial pro-
visions against these loans become necessary. The majority of the arrears
represent short-term credits; only 14 term loans having a total value of
CFAF 82.9 million, or 2.3% of the total outstanding term portfolio, are
affiected by arrears of more than three months. The total amount of arrears
for these 14 loaLns is CFAF56.3 million or 1.5% of the oustanding portfolio.
BDIN's total provisions of CFAF3.1 billion as of September 30, 1977 are
reaLsonable, as they represent more than 75% of the total outstanding arrears.
Gerneral provisions, maintained at 5% of annual outstanding, non-guaranteed
portfolio, totalled CFAF1.1 billion as of September 30, 1977. In addition,
specific provisions against arrears amounted to CFAF 2.0 billion. Total
teserves, including legal and special reserves and retained earnings, amounted
to CFAF947 million at end fiscal 1977. BDRN's financial position is sound.
2.26      Performance. BDRN's profits are substantial and have been increas-
ing rapidly. Profits in 1977 amounted to CFAF435 million, or 13.4% of net
worth, as compared with CFAF352 million in 1976, equal to 11.5% of net worth
(Annex 5). Profits would have been even more substantial had BDRN not taken
large provisions in 1976 and 1977.
2.27      Prospects.  Financial projections and the assumptions on which they
are based are presented in Annex 4. These projections assume the assistance
of this credit and a concomitant expansion in BDRN's development activities.
It is assumed that, reflecting the relative importance of commercial and
development activities, BDRN will allocate 80% of annual cash from operations
to finance the growth of its commercial activities. BDRN's pipeline of in-
dustrial projects (Annex 6) consists of over thirty projects requiring more
than $18.5 million in financing through 1981. The great majority of these
projects are in early stages of identification or study, but several would
qualify as small and medium-scale investments under the project including
textile projects, a tannery, brickmaking factories and various projects
to process local agricultural and livestock products. In addition, BDRN
typically finances at least twenty very small-scale and artisan projects each
year with an average credit of $25,000. BDRN has experienced some tightness
in its term resources in recent years and has depended on the revolving funds
from its Conseil de l'Entente lines of credit to finance its small-scale
entesrprise loans. The availability of increased resources will permit an
expansion in development operations which would be further facilitated by
improvement in BD)RN's technical assistance capabilities. In order to finance
the proposed lending program, BDRN will have to mobilize about CFAF3.5 bil-
lion ($14 million) in term resources in the 1978-81 period in addition to
the proposed IDA line of credit and the credit from the ADB. Most of these
addiLtional resources will be provided from amortization of BDRN's existing
terra portfolio and a small percentage of available cash from operations.



- 15 -
2.28      BDRN's financial position is expected to remain sound in the fore-
cast period. The rapid growth in reserves and retained earnings permits its
long-term debt/equity ratio to remain comfortably below the limit of 3.5:1
imposed for this credit. Debt service coverage and liquidity remain satisfac-
tory throughout. General provisions will be maintained at 5% of outstanding,
non-guaranteed, credits, with additional specific provisions of CFAF300 mil-
lion per year. Profitability improves impressively, averaging over 20% on
average equity, primarily due to the profitability of commercial operations.
The Artisan Center of the National Museum of Niger
2.29      The National Museum of Niger was founded in 1959 by a Spaniard as
an exhibition of Nigerien history, costumes and crafts. The Museum, generally
considered to be the major cultural institution in Niger and one of the most
distinguished in West Africa, is under the supervision of the Ministry of
Youth, Sport and Culture which has sought for several years to establish
museum branches in Niger's secondary cities. In addition to the several
exhibition pavillions and a zoo, the Museum comprises an education center, a
secretariat, and an artisan center. Since 1974, the Museum has been directed
by a Nigerien, assisted by a staff of more than 57 full-time and 20 part-time
Nigeriens, plus several young expatriates from CIDA, the U.S. Peace Corps and
France. The management of the Museum includes a deputy curator, with general
supervisory responsibilities including the Artisan Center, and an expatriate
technical adviser, responsible for education activities. Both report to the
Director. The Museum is supported by an annual Government budget allocation.
2.30      The Artisan Center.  In 1967, the Artisan Center of the Museum was
established as a living exhibition of Nigerien crafts, including leather,
jewelry and metalwork, textiles and ceramics. The more than 160 craftsmen
affiliated with the Museum have since 1977 been organized as a self-governing
cooperative; 100 of these craftsmen work on the Museum grounds, the others
in Maradi, Zinder and Agadez. Through the Artisan Center the Museum seeks
to promote quality artisanship and artisan employment while preserving tradi-
tional techniques and culture. It is generally accepted that the artisans
affiliated with the Museum are among the best in Niger. The Artisan Center
is therefore the most appropriate instrument through which to channel assis-
tance for this sub-sector. Present Artisan Center management is provided by
a small untrained staff, financed by the Artisans cooperative affiliated with
the Museum. Although the Center's facilities were contributed by the Govern-
ment, the Center itself is largely self-financing.
2.31      The Center provides a large but rough workshop on its grounds for
its affiliated artisans; the lack of more modern facilities has inhibited
craftsmen productivity. The Center also advances funds for bulk purchases
of leather from SONITAN, Niger's only operating tannery. The Center's funds
have not been adequate to allow the purchase of first quality skins and
the poor quality of the materials obtained has diminished the value of the
artisans work. Client deposits against special orders are the craftsmen's
only other source of working capital. As a result, little inventory is
maintained, most sales are by special order and, therefore, goods are pro-
duced only in small quantities preventing any economies of scale in use of



- 16 -
raw materials or production methods. Craftsmen make their own arrangements
for credit, tools, production, design and supply of raw materials other than
leather. The quality of these raw materials has deteriorated significantly,
especially silver. Tools are rough, traditional and not in adequate supply.
There is no organized apprenticeship program and little sharing of skills
among the artisans. Finished work tends to be of uneven quality and recently
has declined. Prices have increased significantly, reflecting the absence
of effective cost controls. The artisans have little awareness of market
requirements.
2.32      Sales.  The majority of artistic artisan products are sold through
the Museum shop. These commercial operations are not well organized and will
need improvement. After a rapid increase in sales at the Museum shop until
1972, when exports, including sales at international fairs, accounted for more
than a quarter of total turnover, sales have remained fairly stable at about
CFAF40 million while exports fell to below 3% of the total. Several factors
appear to have had a major influence on this decline. First, product quality
did not meet the expectations of many clients who placed special orders. In
addition, the craftsmen lack the means, in working capital, equipment or raw
materials, to maintain or expand production. Further, the standardization and
quality control necessary for sizable export sales cannot be achieved under
the existing system.
2.33      Prospects.  The Government and the Museum Director have now re-
quested IDA assistance in expanding and improving the operations of the
Artisan Center, including the development of an export market, as a parallel
activity to the Museum's continuing efforts to preserve Niger's traditional
crafts and techniques. Preliminary market tests of typical Artisan Center
products in Europe have indicated a sizable potential demand for these goods,
especially leather goods, if a large and stable supply of high quality goods
can be assured, and if cost controls are instituted to assure product com-
petitiveness in these markets. Leatherwork, which utilizes indigenous
materials, offers particularly attractive potential for development, as most
hides and skins are now exported unfinished. To meet these requirements,
artisan employment must increase and improvements will be required in their
materials, facilities, training and production methods. Artisan Center
operations would need considerable modification and expansion. Close coor-
dination will be required between marketing and production programs. The
proposed project will help build the Artisan Center into a commercially
viable operation offering employment to a substantial number of artisans
at a relatively low cost.
III.  THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The need for an employment creation project for small- and medium-
scale enterprises in Niger was first identified by a reconnaissance mission
in February, 1977. Concurrently, consultants reported optimistic results to



- 17 -
preliminary tests of Artisan Center products in European markets. A pre-
paration mission in June 1977 studied the development prospects and assist-
ance needs of small- and medium-scale industry and the activities of the
development bank and the Artisan Center. This report sets out the findings of
the appraisal mission which visited Niger in November 1977 anid recommends an
IDA credit nf US$5 million for technical and financial assistance.
3.02      The primary purpose of this project is to promote employment creation
in Niger's industrial sector while strengthening the sector's institutional
infrastructure through the provision of technical and financial assistance
and proposed improvements in industrial policies. Toward these ends, an IDA
credit of US$5 million is proposed to finance a project to be implemented over
a 3-year period, 1979 through 1981, and consisting of three main components:
(1) a credit of US$3.60 million for BDRN, of which a line of credit
of US$3.25 million would finance relatively labor-intensive
small- and medium-scale enterprises, the balance of the credit
providing technical assistance and training programs to upgrade
BDRN's Development Department. In addition, US$100,000 will
be passed through the Government for assistance to the Ecole
Nationale d'Administration (ENA) of Niger in the development of
a-'     Bank  Ianage ent Training Program;
-- -Q   (2)  financial and technical assistance in the amount of US$0.5
million for the establishment of an Office de Promotion de
treprise Nigerienne (OPEN), in cooperation with
(3)  financial and technical assistance for a total of US$800,000
to the Artisan Center of the National Museum.
3.03      Funds allocated for each of the above components are as follows:
BDRN:               Line of Credit                           US$3,250,000
Technical Assistance and Training             350,000
Training (through ENA)                        100,000
Sub-Total                          US$3,700,000
OPEN:                Technical Assistance and Training       US$  320,000
Furniture, Vehicles and Equipment             140,000
Installation Costs                            40,000
Sub-Total                          US$  500,000
Artisan  Center:    Technical Assistance                     US$  260,000
Facilities, Equipment and Vehicles           440,000
Revolving Fund for Working Capital      US$  100,000
Sub-Total                          US$  800,000
Total                              US$5,000,000



- 18 -
zLaial Features
Support for BDRN
3.04      Line of Credit.  The US$3.25 million line of credit to BDRN will
provide medium- and long-term financing for fixed investment and permanent
working capital in sound small- and medium-scale labor-intensive projects.
At least forty percent of the line of credit will be reserved for projects
having an investment cost per job of US$5,000 or less per job.  Such projects
are expected to assist small-scale enterprises, defined as having total fixed
assets below CFALF 30 million (US$125,000); however, as the primary objective
of these criteria is employment creation, larger enterprises which satisfy
the cost per job requirement will be eligible for assistance under this
segment. All projects which exceed the cost per job limit of $5,000 will be
considered for financing under the balance of the line of credit to give IDA
maximum opportunity to comment upon major BDRN investments. IDA review will
emphasize economic justification and capital efficiency of the investment.
Such projects are expected to assist medium size enterprises, with a target
size below CFAF 300 million in fixed assets and a target ceiling on cost per
job created at $15,000. It is expected that the review process and criteria
will encourage significant reductions in the capital intensity of typical BDRN
prcjects.  Several projects in BDRN's present pipeline would be acceptable for
financing under this credit, including textile, brickmaking and agricultural
and. livestock processing enterprises. BDRN will be authorized to finance
through both loan and equity investment up to 90% of the total cost of proj-
ects financed under the small-scale segment of the line of credit; IDA will
refinance the entire amount of such investments, including local costs which
are expected to represent 22% of the financing. For the projects above the
$5,000 per job ceiling, BDRN will be authorized to finance up to 75% of total
project costs; IDA will refinance total direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs of these projects up to 70% of total project cost or the amount of
BDRN's investment, if smaller. The terms of BDRN's subloans will be flexible
with a maximum of fifteen years and a minimum of three years; terms are
expected to average seven years with two years of grace. The on-lending rate
for all subloans will be 11%. For small-scale loans subject to the Central
Bank's ceiling of 8.5% on interest rates, BDRN will be compensated for the
2.5% difference in interest rates by a Government interest subsidy. A free
limit will apply to all projects under $100,000 financed under the small-scale
segment of the line of credit, after the first five such projects have been
approved, up to an aggregate amount of US$750,000.
3.05      Based on the present pipeline and past lending patterns, the line
of credit should assist at least 40 projects, as shown in Table 3 below:



- 19 -
Table 3: SUBPROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Medium-Scale                     Small-Scale
Investments          %           Investments        %
(CFAF)     (US$                 (CFAF       (US$
million)  thousand)             million)   thousand)
Average total
investment             136.5        557.0    100        10.5         42.5   100
Average BDRN
investment             102.0        417.0      75        9.0         37.1    87
of which IDA           (95.5)      (390.0)   (70)       (9.0)       (37.1)  (87)
Contribution of
entrepreneurs and
other sources           34.5        140.0      25        1.5         5.4     13
Number of Subprojects
expected                 5                              35
Total cost of
Sub-projects           680.0      2,785                365.0      1,485
Of which:  IDA        (478)      (1,950.0)    70      (318.5)   (1,300.0)  (87)
3.06      Technical Assistance.  In order to strengthen BDRN's development
operations, US$265,000 has been allocated to finance four man-years of tech-
nical assistance to BDRN: two man-years for a senior adviser to the Develop-
ment Director and two man-years for an economist/financial analyst for the
Development Department. The senior adviser would be responsible for improv-
ing the quality of project appraisal and supervision and management of term
resources, through the development of improved operating guidelines and pro-
cedures, staff supervision, and the organization and supervision of staff
training programs. The economist/financial analyst would advise on the
economic and financial aspects of project appraisal and implementation, pro-
vide technical assistance to BDRN clients and train a counterpart to assume
these functions. Assurances have been received that adequate professional
staff will be made available to BDRN to support its operations. Local costs
for housing, domestic travel and support services for the experts would be met
by BDRN.
3.07      Training.  US$85,000 has been allocated in the BDRN credit to
finance various programs of advanced and specialized training for BDRN staff.
US$70,000 of this amount will be allocated to the costs of tuition, currently
CFAF 650,000 (US$2,650) per student per year, for 24 student-years in the ENA
bank management program. 1/ BDRN will assume all other costs of these students,
1/   24 student-years in the three-year Bank management program = 4 students
in year 1, 8 students in year 2 (4 old plus 4 new) and 12 students in
year 3 (8 old plus 4 new).



- 20 -
including the maintenance of salary for present employees being upgraded or
typical subsistence requirements for other students sponsored by BDRN. The
remaining US$15,000 will finance a program of part-time courses and seminars
in bank management and development finance, and participation in training
programs sponsored by regional development organizations and by institutions
such as EDI. The senior adviser will be responsible for developing this
program in coordination with BDRN's Director.
3.08      ENA Training Program.  The Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA),
a U]NDP project, is Niger's only institution providing training in public
administration, social sciences and business. Instruction is provided at
elementary, intermediate (baccalaureate) and advanTced (university) levels.
The first advanced program in management is scheduled to begin in fall, 1978
as a three-year program offering specialization in various aspects of admin-
istration and finance. It has been agreed that a specialization in bank
6anagement will be included in this program, for which Niger's six financial
institutions will be allowed to nominate candidates and for which IDA will
allocate $100,000 under the project to assist ENA in curriculum design and
instruction.- Of this total, US$25,000 is allocated for three to four months
of short-term consultancy to design this program; an additional US$65,000 is
allocated to finance one man-year of a full-time senior faculty member to
direct the first year of implementation of the Banking Course in 1980-81, the
third and most ailvanced year of the management program. The Government will
assume all local costs for housing, domestic travel and support services for
these experts. Finally, an additional $10,000 is allocated for materials and
equzipment needed for this program.
3.09      Onlending Terms and Conditions.  The US$3.60 million to support
BDR1i's activities would be on-lent to BDRN by the Government at the current
Banlc lending rate and a term of fifteen years and three years of grace. The
amortization of the BDRN line of credit would be in equal, semi-annual pay-
ments of principal and interest. BDRN is expected to roll-over the funds
onces for medium projects, perhaps twice for small projects. A fixed amortiza-
tion schedule is justified to ease for the Government the burden of amortiza-
tion schedule readjustment and to provide BDRN with increased term resources.
The Bank's standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% would apply.  The foreign
exchange risk on the credit to BDRN would be assumed by the Government for a
fee of .5%, to be passed on to BDRN's clients.  Signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between BDRN and the Government which specifies these on-lending
conditions will be a condition of effectiveness of this Credit.  BDRN's debt/
equ:Lty ratio wou:Ld be limited to 3.5:1 for long-term debt (over one year).
BDRN will on-lend IDA funds to subprojects at an interest rate of 11%, plus
the fee for assumption of foreign exchange risk. For those loans subject
to ]3CEAO's interest ceiling for SSE, the Government would provide an interest
subsidy to assure BDRN adequate margin on these operations.
3.10      Under the project, BDRN will be required to undergo an annual
independent audil of its accounts, by auditors acceptable to IDA, beginning
the year ending 'September 1978. Appointment of technical assistance staff and
of Nigerien counterparts is required within 6 months of the date of signature
of the credit.



- 21-
3.11      Conditions of ENA Financing.  Formal agreement to establish the
Banking Management Program at ENA by the Ministry of Public Service, ENA's
supervising ministry,is a condition of disbursement of this component. It is
recommended that a qualified faculty member of ENA be invited to participate
in an EDI project evaluation course.
Support for the Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
3.12      A total of $500,000 is to be allocated from the credit to help
establish, in cooperation with UNDP, an Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise
-igerienne (OPEN).  This office will (i) promote new enterprises and irivest-
ments, through project identification, entrepreneur development and project
packaging; (ii) provide technical assistance to both new and ongoing enter-
prises; (iii) study and prepare projects for Bank financing; (iv) provide or
sponsor training in management, basic business skills and technical skills in
cooperation with BDRN. OPEN will also be responsible for administration of
the proposed guarantee and equity participation funds, in cooperation with
BDRN. OPEN may also eventually administer a program of common services to
small enterprises, such as technical service centers, workshops and raw
material bulk purchase schemes. 'OPEN and BDRN will share engineering and
technical staffs. Common evaluation standards and procedures will be devel-
oped between OPEN and BDRN's Development Department to ensure coordinated
project development. The Director of BDRN will become a member of OPEN's
Board and management committee, both to be chaired by the Minister of Economic
Affairs, Industry and Commerce. Initial Nigerien staff of the OPEN will in-
clude six Nigerien professionals, including the Director, and six support
staff. OPEN would receive an annual budget allocation from the Government and
an annual personnel allocation of both experienced staff and young graduates.
3.13      Technical Assistance and Training.  Five expatriate advisors,
equivalent to fifteen man-years of assistance, would be financed under this
project: four advisors under a UNDP program, for an estimated cost of US$1.1,
million, to be executed to UNIDO, and one, the senior advisor, to be financed
from the proposed IDA credit, at an estimated cost of $250,000 for three
manyears. The senior advisor would be responsible for advising the Director
of OPEN on all aspects of the agency's development and operations, including
project preparation and appraisal procedures in cooperation with BDRN, the
development of technical assistance and training services and the administra-
tion of common services programs. The UNDP-financed advisors would include an
engineer (to be shared with BDRN), responsible for technical supervision and
appraisal of projects, a project economist and a financial analyst, both to
advise on project studies and technical assistance, and a training advisor, to
organize and supervise OPEN's training services.   All advisors will be
required to train Nigerien counterparts. $70,000 is to be allocated from the
credit to finance a program of 12 seminars for Nigerien entrepreneurs and
managers in management and business skills.
3.14      Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles and Installation Costs.  The IDA
credit will finance the rehabilitation and furnishing of appropriate office



- 22 -
and training facilities, housing furnishings for the five advisors and the
purchase and maintenance of four vehicles for the OPEN, up to a total cost
of $180,000 including local costs and contingencies, of which $40,000 rep-
resents a contribution to recurrent costs for the three year project period.
3.15      Terms and Conditions.  The Nigerien Government will provide the
balance of the local operating costs of OPEN including remaining local costs
of technical assistance and the provision of local staff, for a total cost of
$65C0,000 for three years. The draft statutes establishing OPEN have been
reviewed and found acceptable by the Association. Confirmation of a global
financing plan, including UNDP participation, for the Office is a condition"
of disbursement of this component. Appointment of technical advisors and
their counterparts, including a qualified Nigerien Director for the OPEN,
are required withLin six months of the signature of the credit.
Support to the Artisan Center
3.16      A total. of $800,000 is to be allocated to support the Artisan Center
of t:he National Museum of Niger to improve artisai employment and productivity
in t:he leather work subsector to serve the export market. The Artisan Center
will, be established as an independent entity in coordination with the Museum
but under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Industry and
Commerce.  Within the Artisan Center, new training, production, raw material
purchasing and maLrketing sections will be established, and commercial services
will be reorganized and modernized. Satellite centers will be established
in ALgadez, Zinder and Maradi, the main regional artisan locations, to supple-
ment: the Museum's services in Niamey. The component will be directed by a
Nigerien, serving as Director of the Artisan Center. The managers of the
satellite centers will report to the Director of the Artisan Center.
3.17      Constrtuction, Equipment and Vehicles:  The IDA credit will finance
the construction of training, workshop and warehouse centers in the four
cities, as well as equipment and vehicles for the centers, up to a total
cost: of $440,000, including local costs and contingencies.
3.18      Credit--in-kind.  $100,000 from the proceeds of the credit will be
allocated to finance the establishment by the Artisan Center of a permanent
revolving fund of $100,000 to provide credit in-kind loans for raw materials,
small equipment and other supplies for artisans affiliated with the Center.
Borrowers will be required to contribute 10% of the total financing from their
own resources. The average loan size is expected to be $2,500 and loans would
range from a few dollars (working capital) to a maximum of $10,000 for arti-
sanal cooperatives and $2,000 for individual artisans to finance small equip-
ment. Credit terms will be flexible depending on the nature of the investment,
with grace periocds from 6 months to 18 months and terms ranging from two years
to 8 years with an interest rate of 8.5%, in conformity with BCEAO guidelines
on credit to SSE. The average term is expected to be 3 years with 12 months
grace. IDA will review with the Center semi-annually their forecasts of
creclit operation and records of recent operation.



- 23 -
3.19      Technical Assistance.  Under the project, $225,000 has been allo-
cated for seven man-years of technical assistance. Of this, $70,000 repre-
sents the cost for two man-years of a senior adviser to the Director of the
Artisan Center, $50,000 represents the cost of two man-years for a training
adviser and US$105,000 the cost of three man-years for experienced leather-
workers to supervise production at the four centers. The Senior Adviser
will be responsible for proposing production, credit, supply and inventory
systems, re-organizing commercial operations and establishing an efficient
system of accounts and reporting. In addition, US$35,000 is allocated for
about 6 man-months of short-term assistance in marketing and design. Since
coordination between production and marketing is essential to the success of
this venture, these services should all be combined into one contract, to be
awarded on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The firm selected should
be required to commit itself to the purchase of a substantial share of the
items produced to its marketing specifications at mutually agreed terms, as a
guarantee of its marketing assistance. Signature of this technical services
contract is required within six months of the date of signature of this
Credit.
3.20      Terms and Conditions.  The Nigerien Government has agreed to meet
the local costs of technical assistance and consultancy, estimated at $90,000
over the two year period, and to cover the Center's annual operating costs
for at least the first two years of this program, for an estimated $110,000
per year. Appointment of a Nigerien Director for the Center qualified to
direct this component and of qualified counterparts to the technical advisors
is required within six months of the date of signature of this Credit.
3.21      Forecasts of artisan center operation (Annex 7), based on available
market data and assuming the improvement of facilities, materials and finan-
cing as well as the assistance described above, indicate that within 2.5
years, 370 additional artisans may be supported by the Artisan Center at
investment per job created of about $1,500. By 1982, the Center is expected
to become a self-sustaining commercial operation.
Project Costs and Financing
3.22      Total project costs are estimated to be US$8.1 million, including
US$.15 million in taxes. The foreign component would be US$5.4 million or 68%
of net project costs. The Bank Group's share in project financing would be
US$5.0 million or 63% of net project costs, covering US$4.3 million of the
foreign cost component as well as US$700,000 towards local costs. For the
credit components, local entrepreneurs and artisans and BDRN would contribute
to local costs. For the technical assistance components, the Government and
BDRN would meet the balance of local costs not covered by the IDA credit,
and UNDP would finance US$1.1 million in foreign costs. It is estimated that
IDA's contribution towards local costs of US$700,000, amounting to 14% of
the credit, would include $280,000 for BDRN loans to small-scale subborrowers,
$50,000 for credit-in-kind to artisans, $210,000 for construction, equip-
ment and vehicles for the Artisan Center, $85,000 for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and installation costs for OPEN and $75,000 to support BDRN parti-
cipation in ENA's Bank management program and other training programs. The



- 24 -
Govrernment's tot:al contribution to local costs will amount to $870,000,
inc:luding $650,000 for OPEN and $220,000 for the Artisan Center. This
amount represents about $320,000 in recurrent costs for each of the first
two years of the project and $230,000 for the third year.
3.23      Project costs and the proposed financing arrangements are slummar-
ize!d in Table 4.
Implementation
3.24      Monitoring.  BDRN, OPEN and the Artisan Center would be required
to submit to IDA regular operational and financial reports. For BDRN, these
requirements cover normal DFC information, including semi-annual financial
statements, arrears and resource positions, operations (approvals, commitments
and disbursement as well as employment creation and investment data), training
activities and annual reports and audits. OPEN would submit semi-annual state-
ments describing its promotion, technical assistance and project preparation
activities and the operations of the guarantee and equity funds. The Artisan
Center would be required to send quarterly operation statements (employment,
production) and financial statements starting January 1979.
3.25      Technical Assistance.  The qualifications, terms and conditions
of employment of advisors under the project would be subject to IDA approval.
Provision has been made to finance a total of 27 man-years of full-time
advisors under the project, of which 15 man-years would be financed from the
IDA credit and 12 man-years from UNDP funds, and nine man-months of short-term
advisors for training and for artisan products marketing. The average cost of
advisors and consultants is expected to be equivalent to US$3,000 per man-month
for the artisans component and US$6,000 per man-month for BDRN, OPEN and ENA.
3.26      Procurement.  The purchase of equipment and goods under the project
is not suitable for international competitive bidding, given the small-size
and the nature of most of the sub-projects to be financed and goods to be
procured. BDRN will follow standard DFC procurement procedures. OPEN and
the Artisan Center are expected to follow local competitive bidding pro-
cedures, which are acceptable to IDA, to ensure that goods and services are
suitable and reasonably priced.
3.27      Disbursement.  Disbursement of the entire credit will be managed
by BDRN. For disbursement of the line of credit, BDRN would follow regular
DFC procedures. To simplify management of the credit-in-kind fund, the
Artisan Center would submit through BDRN periodic claims for reimbursement
of funds, retaining more detailed documentation on credit allocated for
review by IDA during supervision missions.
3.23      The non-credit proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed as
follows:
(a) 100% of equivalent remuneration for expert
services ($875,000);



- 23 -
jbl~,h. 4_
j,,lbEt. Coa  1sINt matutes
CfrLfM3 Li. L{2L'~UIt q....1l l-]~ 
Taxes    Lrcail _            _o,L  Totnl   _anes    Loylt _   F.l-tel    Total
Credit
ArtisanCet-Ier                            2.00    11.00       14.00      27.00        10.00    50.00       50.00    110.00
Small-Scale (tIDRN)                       _      110.00      255.00    365.00                 445,00   1,040.00  1,485.00
MediaM-Scall- (RDaRN)                      -     205.00     _         O                 .00-            195000  2.785.00
2.00   326.00      744.00  1,072.00         10.00 1,'30.00   3,040,00  4,380.00
Dirert lnvestnent
Artisan Cetter
ColIstruction                              -      33.00       23.00      56.00          -     135.00       95,00    230,00
Equipment                                         13.00       26.00      39.00          -      55.00      105,00    150,00
Vehicles                                   -       4.00        9,00      13.00          -      20.00        30.00     50.00
J0.00      58.00    108.00           -      210.00      230.00    440.00
OPEN
Equipment and Furniture                   -                   24.90      24.90          -      30.00       75.00    105.00
Vehicles                                   _       _           7.70       7.70          _      l.00       20.00      30.00
Building Rehabilitation                   _       1.10         1.10       1.10          -       5.00          -        5.00
-      1.10        32.60      33.70          -      45.00       95.00    140.00
Technical Assistance. Trantini,
Operating Expenses
ENA
E.petriate salaries                        _         -        22.00      22.00           -         -       90.00      90,do
Equipment and materials                    -         -         2.00       2.00                     -       10.00      10.00
Operating expenses    -                    2,00    3.00                   5.00          5.00   15.00           -      20.00
B081                                  2.00    3.00        24.00     29.00           S.00   15.00      100.00    120.00
Expatriate salaries                         -        -        64.90     64.90            -         -      265,00    '65.00
Operating expenses                        6.00     9.00         -        15.00         20.00   40.00           -      6r.00
Training services                           -        -         3.70       3.70           -      5.00       10.00      15.00
Tuition                                    -      17.20         -        17.20           -     70.00          -       70.00
1I    26.20         68.60    100,800         20.00  15.oo       275,00    410.00
OPEN
Expatriate Salaries                       -        -         330.30    330.30           -        -      1,350.00  1,350.00
Operating Expenses                      24.50  117.50          3.20    145.20        100.00   575.00       15.00    690.00
Training Courses                          _        -          15.00      15.00          -        _         J0.00      70.00
24.50  11.7.50      34S.50    490.50        100.00   575.00   1,435.00  2,L10.00
*:rttsar .c.ter
Expatriate salaries                         -       -         64.00     64.00            -        -       260.00    260.00
Operating Expenseu                       5.00    44.00          -        49.00         20.00  15O.OO           -     200.00
5.00    44.00       b,4.00    113.00         2C,Qo  180,00      280.00    460.00
TOTAL             3950   567.0   1,3i.70  1,947.00              ..C L, Z 420,.     5,433.00 C ,0u0. 0
Proposed Financing (USS M-.)
Covernnent                 Other
UA          BDRN                                         Local
Center        OPEN         EA      Sources a              Total
and
Entrepreneurs
Credit
Artisans                 0.100                -          -                  -         0,010              0,110
Small Scale              1.300           _        -             -          -          0.185       -       iS45
Medium Scale             1.950                    -                 '       -         0.70.       -       2.785
3.350         0.135    -              -           -          0.895      -       4.780
Construction. Supplies,
Artisan Center           0.440                                                          -         -      0.440
OPEN                     0.250           -        -             -           -                     -      0.250
Technfcul A.sstqn-e_Training,
Operatn   nss
BD!3L                    0.350         o.060                                            -         -      0.460
ENA                      0.100           _        -             _         0.020         -                0.120
OrPl                      0.360                               O0.60,0       -                    I I.1W   2.110
Artisan CCntetr           0.260           -      0.700                                      -            0.41G
TI t.l               -1)10         0.19',  (.200         U.6.'       1,021)     0,1, 10.2(0)   .l,
2                6,2.0           2.4     i.4           11.0        0 .2      Il.l       1 I.f 



- 26 -
(b)  100% oif foreign or local expenditures for equipment,
vehicles and construction for the Artisan Center ($440,000);
(c)  100% oE the costs of training programs for BDRN staff
($85,000) and for OPEN ($70,000);
(d)  100% of the costs of furniture, equipment, vehicles and
installation for OPEN ($180,000).
A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 7. Disbursements will be
fully documented.
Benefits and Justification
3.29      The long-run potential for the development of Niger's industrial
sector, while modest, seems reasonably hopeful, given the stimuli of an im-
proving domestic economy, growing investment surpluses from uranium production
and the expanding trade with Nigeria. The primary purpose of the proposed
project is to assist Government in focusing this development on creation
of employment opportunities for the growing numbers of urban unemployed by
introducing significant changes in Government's industrial policies, by
assisting in the establishment of a promotion and technical assistance agency
for small Nigerien enterprises, OPEN, and by strengthening BDRN, the primary
intermediary for the promotion of industrial development in Niger. By up-
grading BDRN's staff quality and capability, improving internal organization
and financial control, project appraisal and other operational policies, the
project would contribute to better designed, more efficient and more viable
projects with increased labor intensity. Assistance to OPEN will encourage
the efficient development of small and artisan enterprises, the most labor
intensive employers in the industrial sector. Under the proposed line of
credit we expect to create employment for more than 500 persons at an average
cost per job of about US$6,000, which represents a major improvement in the
capital efficiency of Niger's industrial sector. By encouraging Niger's small
entrepreneurs, through improved access to financing and technical assistance,
the project will provide a sound basis for future expansion of the sector and
thu.s increase the potential for project replicability.
3.30      By strengthening the Artisan Center, artisan employment and produc-
tivity will increase, helping the poorer segments of the urban population.
The. development of regional centers will extend this assistance to less devel-
oped urban areas. The proposed assistance to the Artisan Center will create
employment for 370 persons, at an average cost of about US$1,500. The eco-
nomic rate of return on this component is expected to exceed 30%. Assuming
that Artisan Center products maintain expected quality and cost standards, and
that external markets expand as suggested in preliminary market tests, still
further increases in artisan employment and development of additional regional
centers should be possible in successive projects. Such expansion of employ-
ment should be possible without further external technical assistance, as
Nigeriens will be trained in this project to assume all the functions of the
prciposed foreign advisors.



- 27 -
Risks
3.31      Given the historic capital intensity of BDRN projects, there is
some risk that BDRN would encounter difficulty in identifying a sufficient
number of projects meeting the investment per job created criterion for
the IDA credit. For this reason, an engineering adviser to be shared by
OPEN and BDRN will be provided under the project to improve project design
and encourage the use of more labor-intensive technologies in their projects.
There would be some risk that the employment creation target in the artisans
component might not be achieved if the export market does not develop suffi-
ciently quickly to support the added employment or if the needed improvements
in product finishing and quality are not realized rapidly and consistently.
Market and product studies suggest that the present targets are realistic.
However, to minimize this risk, we are requiring that the firm providing
technical and marketing assistance to the artisans also guarantee the pur-
chase of a reasonable quantity of products produced to its specifications.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      An IDA credit of US$5 million is recommended.  BDRN would be the
recipient of a US$3.60 million credit on-lent by the Government of standard
bank terms with a fixed term of fifteen years including three years of grace
on principal repayments. Of the remaining US$1.4 million, $100,000 would
benefit ENA, $500,000 would benefit the OPEN, and $800,000 would benefit the
Artisan Center.
4.02      The only condition of credit effectiveness is the signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between BDRN and the Government.
4.03      A condition of disbursement of the OPEN component is the confirma-
tion of a global financing program including the UNDP contribution. A condi-
tion of disbursement for the ENA component is the formal authorization of the
Bank management training program.
4.04      Appointment of technical advisors and their counterparts for all
project components, including the Director of the Artisan Center, is required
within six months of the signature of the credit, with the exception of ENA's
faculty member for the Banking Program who need not assume his duties until
summer 1981.
4.05      With the above conditions fulfilled, the proposed project would
be suitable for a credit of US$5 million.



AFRICANI mTEN'EIrIsE ItAIoIRAI i08Cl I.1
AS OF IEPT4EERJQLA 2II
(inaCEA Millflons
MANE                  aCTOR~~~~~~Bm          LkgCATION             TYTh            DAI' OLF           TOTAL          WORI         DURATION           INTEREST3          MLOI.N42            217111
APPROVAL          1NV2217421       __A_       (olA    PERTOD)~        RATE              IONTES         _PER_JOB
Salou Mero.                 Chicken yamng.                   NiaJOy              Naw              1914              0).15i          0. L.            la                6.55               2                 510
fUas    anoplating                                        Nicey                Me..97                              1.0            1                12               6.5~3               6                 696
Abols Iooaooi          Cold Storage                    Nicety              Mew               1974              o.6            o.6            12 (s)              6.53h38
Ros.saIl.a MeSessa   Food                            Doeso                Mew              1914               3.0            5.0           IS (3)              6.,3                1              6,250
Lasl  Katie                   aoieMtlS.lfsMw1T                                                                      1.7            5. 1           1(6)               6.53                 . 
Nouaca  AliSeS             G.arag                          Nle.aey              Hew              19714              2.0            2.0              26               6.33                7                 711
SOPAC                       Paper                           M1.a.y               Mew              1974             67.0           27.1               48               6.53               14             si,714
AlSo.. Sidliots             Tourist                         Nis,ey            E.t.nsion           1974               9.5            5.0            84 (12)             6.35               8               4,904
Comnoonger                  Agr-ludu.try -                    ar-d1              New              1974              10.5            s.S            84 (12)             6.53               8               2,904
A-do.c 0sarou               Shoe..                          Niaasey              New              1914              21.3           10.0            66 (6~              6.5,       ~       6               1,175
3,ooltrma                   I4c-doatarS                                          New              1974               3.2           2.0             30 (6              6.33                6               1,529
Cents Seyk,ou               Toe                             Miesay               Me               191?4              7.3            5.5            46 (6)              6.35               7               4,071
DesAlo1BJbia         A-nleol FereOng_                 Mlacy               Mew               1Y74              2',0stvS6.35                                                          I              o CAns
Ma ..sro  Ijibo             Wood Soduetry                   Nim-ey               Nesw             1974              i6.4            8.o            72 (6))             6.35              17               2,567
La.ali Dens                 Touism                          HaraSS               New              5974               4.2            2.5            48 (6)             6.55                6              2,912
i.e Blh.ea.. LesSar.                                          aradS              Now              5914               2.6           2.6             so (4)             6.35               a86
Soolbrlqueei                Conutrsct.lo                    Haradi               Ne.              1914             86.o           56.              96 (12)            6.33               54              5,633
All.. Mo..a                  Oera,ge                        2AeSer               N.w              1974               6.6            4,1            30                 6.33                8               5,070
Yorcolee Aewerne Awe.. Con.structIon                        miaswey              New              19714              1.5            1.5            27 ()6.53                             11                 266
Woonkeshe soss              Agroledustry                    Nilay               N.w              1914               1.0            o.8            5o (6)             6.53                2               2,085
AL-s.eoou Sanda             fire..e blook Haling            Zinder               Mew              1974               2.0            2.0            28 (4)              6.33              15                 446
As.o4lu Rulagne              Meoheolol                      Mliemey              New              1974               1.8            i.8            27 (3)             6.53                9                 s8)
51122                       llohnca                           iwsy               New              5974               8.7            6.o            50 (6)             6.33                6              2,608
ferrisete At...             TrAnoport                       ml ws.ey             Mow              1974               1.6            o.8            a6 (e)             6.33                2               s3ss)
Thr,hl.e T,1                "ecl..el-a                      N1.-y            Et.LesIosI           1974               1.8            1.5           63 (24)             6.33                6              1,167
I.o.oufoc (onrarO           El Strific.tlon                 homey                New              1971s             0.2            0.2            55 (5)              6.55                3                279
M-arga A-."eo               Cold Storage                    Niece                Mew              1975               0.7            0.5            26 (4)             6.35                4                 725
SWuho  lle--o               Chlokes. Fermieg                mIecy                New              1915s              5.8            1.3           s4 (14)             6.33                2              1,906
ilrdjle Sobos               Cosremie,saey                                       MNew              1971               1.0            1,0              t2               6.s3                                  -
Badie tls.Le                Touris                          Till.b.ry            New              5975               0.4            0.2               5               6.3                 5                 512                              >
Rookery Soown...            Coerea  proocesuleg             Trodl                Mew              1975               o.8           0.5            ii (L)              6.33                2               1,666                             c
Kalil00 Soyhoc              Tou-la..                        m1eey                New              1975               1.1            0.6              12               6.335                                 545
Lao-ll Katieha              Toole.                          Dift.            F. te...lon.         1975               o.6           0.5            12 (2)              6.5s                                  208
Mo-oe  Gu.se.nid            Metal W-rS,lg                     insses             Mews             1975               0.5            0.4            18 (5)             6.ss 
Wt.oss  Keildog             Metal Rorieg                    MIssaes              Nsw              1975               0.6            o.6            18 03)             8.0                11                  sO
Adte-. Abdo..               Chlokee Farmi.4g                 hany                Me.              1975               o.8            6.o              la               8.0                 6              4,260
b.ea.t Dan A-,.al           trenuport                       Zieder               New              1975             58.6            s4.s            48 ((6)            6.55               12             19,556
SonIfrIn                    Cold Storage                    NIcsa,               Me.              1975              6.9             3.0           48 (6)              6.53                7              8,212
S.o, Cesia                  Agr.1lndustry                   Agadet               Mew              1975              0.9            0.7               24               6.3                 2              1,927
Marsuow Dan lou1o-          Woad I.dustry                   Meradl               Be.              1975               2.8            2.0            St (5)             8.0                 4              2,954
ilad.sl     AtOnu           Sport                           Mlasay               Mew              1975               3.5            2.9            51 (3)             6.33                4              5,646
0essro. Id.Taepr                                            Niamey               New              1975               5.1            1.0            56 (3              8.0                ii              1,458
I,0,.Mloon                    hsiasMIesy                                         Mew              1975              2.1             i.7            33  5)i            8. a    .           1
Adds RIO                  Agrcutue                          e..Me                               1975              5.0             1,0           22  2.              8.o                 1 S'
Aiscu AlgIne                Teetile Confeotlon              NIcet~y          KEte.awlos           1975               0,5            052                                 .                                 ,4
Rao..  Megiowood                                            T .a. osa            Mew              1975               1.7           1.5               36               8.0                 4              1,954
Deo-da Rueae                MooeclNtasmey                                        New              19,76              6.s            4.o            40 (4)             8.o                 7                 -
Rafloc N..Cf.               Cosruto                         Nasy                 N.e              5976               1.3            1.0              24               8.o                 4                770
All Dlsr-snyp                lrse-e RSook Hailg             Nises,y              Ne               5916             23.1             8.8              ha8               8.o               17                 -
M.-otspha Racier            Agroledutry                     ZInder               Mew              1976               5.0            5.1            50 (5)             8.0                 2-
Albc--o  Dia1lo             Garag.                          Mide                 Me               1976               5.2            3.2           28 (4)              8.0                16         .       -
So.saIha AhScii.            TeetI1e Conecton                  nr                 Nei976                              1.1           o.7            t8 (4)              8.o                 4         .       -
T1.  Mok,t                   Cosusrce                       Karm                 New.             1976               1.4            1.0           27 (3)              8.o                 2 
Eng-nic.                    Con.truclios                    Zinder               Mw.              1976i            21.0            9.5            66 (6)              8.0                8a
Gra..de  i-lrit-re           lrrr                           MInsy                New              19j6             15.0            8,0             148 (2)            8.0                 6-
MatIns Della                Tourlo                          Tes..aoua            Mew              1976             15.0            7.8            148 (12)            8.o                 6-
Alto M~..u..                bottle  Confection              flames               New              1976               l.a,          o.8            26 (2)              8.0                 3-
Dirted Di go.h       Cho~kes ftirmIg                 Nla,aey          Estenelop            1916              3.4            1.1            24 (5)              8.0                 3-
Kel..noI Tufir-o            l-ss-                           MIssesy              Mew              1976              7.8            7.8            814 (12)            8.0 C) 
Zako-  lows                 Agjroisolotry                   Niece                Mew              1976              0.5            0.1            20 (2)              8.o                 2-
uAr-so                      Cons.tr.Uolon                   Zluder               meg              1976             i8.o           12.0            48 (12)             9.75t               6-
H."sbetl                    Toerlas                         Mlaey                Meg              19)6              s.6            4.o            57 (7)              9.71               11-
Agoun Djiho  io-            Chemicals                       Nisacey              New              1976             61.o            4.0            50 (6)              8.o                i,                 -
El.. tab            ~~~~~~Co1llee                    Maradt           Extension            1976              6.-i           6.0               4a               9.75               11-
ebb. W--sea Ktos..t.p.    Garage                            Ll,.der          Esteneson            1976              MA            13.0            s6 (6)              9.75               ILA-
bc.oho...e All              Garage                          NIa,ey           KoLen.lse            1971              NA            13.0              tMA               9.75               12        
Cenoa Datoee                Garage                          D....                Mew              1977              5.2             3.0            52 (4)             9.75                9-
DenY Sooley                 Medical Center                  Nisxey               Mew              1977              2.7             1.8            54 (8)             9.75                5-
Goonrouc  Sos-              Transp-rt                       Niece                New              1977             11.5             8.o            29 03)             9.72               12-
M-.ao  Dcutohl              Treesport                       li-rsO               New              1977             14.9           10 0             50 (6,)            9.75               MA-
Hessens M-rIna              Tran..port                      Ziedur           ExtensIon            1977            169).0         11.2.0             .57              10.5               ::A-
toct11 Dan Aco.so           Transport                       tinder           Eateeclon            1917            11A.0           89.0               27              144.5               MA-
All AEFt  nepl    priesteiy ened
7]   1. s.sse  aoss  lecude  Jobs existIng before expnsolo  prjeot.



29
ANU 1
Page 2
Analvyis of the Afrlcn EntrrIse Program Loan Portfolio
s of Seetr 30. 1977
(Amounts in CAN HW.Ltliou)
Cr dit Size                    Number           2          Amount           S
of Prolects
Up to 10 M                        63          87.5           177.2        30.3
11 to 30 K                         6           8.3           90           15.4
31 to 100 n                        2           2.8           175          30
54.3
10L to 300.H                       1           1.4          142           24.3
72         100            584.2        100
Proiect Size. /                Num  Ar                                      2
of rrosectx
Up to 10 n                        55          78.5           153.3        18.8
U. to 30 If                      10           14.3          164.4         20.1
31 to 100 n-                       3           4.3          211.6         25.9
101 to 300 M                      2.           2.9          287           35.2
70         100            816.3        100
CoSt oar iob                   Number           2         Aant of           2
of Proleocs                   Credit
less than 1.200 $                 15          37.5           16.8          7.9
1.201 - 2,500 $                    t          20             17.8          8.4
2,501 - 5,000 $                   11.         27.5           42.5         20
5,001 - 10,000 $                   4          101            93           43.9
10.001 - 20,000 5                  2           5             42           19.8
40         t00            212.1        100
Sector                         Number           2         Afoiut of         2
Credit
Agriculture, A&roinduMsr          13          18              23.2         4
Construction                       9          12.5           122          21
Garage and lsetheaical            12          16.7           56.2          9.6
Transport                          7           9.7          265.3         45.4
Servicees                          7           9.7           21.6          3.7
Tourism                            7           9.7           20.7          3.5
Otherl/                           17          23.6            75.2        12.8
72          99.9          584.2        100
Retion                         Number           2         Amount of         S
Credit
Niamy                             43          59.7           157.1        26.9
Zinder                            11          15.3          291.2         49.8
Maradi                             a      .   11.1           116.6        20
Other                             10          13.9            19.3         3.3
72         100            584.2        100
1/ 2 projects have no data oan project saie
2/ Only 40 new projects have data allowing this table, representing 602 of
total mount loaned; data on extension projectsdoes not reflect marginal
cost per job.
3/  Other includes: cold storage, plumbing, food, paper, metalvare, shoemaking.
tailor and chemical enterprisas.



bDRN
ELEEC'ED MEDIUM AND LARGE PROJECTS
AS OF SEPTEMBER 50, 1q77
in CFAF Million..
NAMP;                SECTOR          L-OCATION       uoWNElOiiP       DATE OF         TOTAL        BDRN         DURATION        INTEREST          NUMBER            F1YED
APPROVAL       INVESTMENT    ILOAK      (GRACE PERIOD        RATE        JOBS CRE.ATED 'IITSJEN1     T
PER JOB
Sepani                    Agroindustry       Zinder       Private                 1971           975         240        9 years (2)          7              128               51.667
Navalon                   Tourism            Niamey       Private                 1971            71           35       6        (1)         7               NA
Sonexcl I                 Services           Niamey       Private                 1972            50           20       5                    7               15               16.o25
Soniprim                  Agroindustry       Niamey       Publie/Private          1913            90.5         10       5        (1)         7.25            NA
Siconlger                 Agroindustry       Maradi       Public/Private                         891.4       450        6        (2)         7              5808.46
Aseena                    Transport          Niamey       Public                                  64.8         32       7        (2)         7.5             NA
Sopae                     Paper              Niamey       Private                 1974            85           15       4        (1)         8               28               8.929
Mahamane Chlaoveye I      Transport          Maradi       Private                                 50           50       3                    6.35             8               26.041
SCICE I                   llousing           Niamey       Public                                 360         36o        6        (1)         9.5             NA
Dem Dicko                 Housilng           Niamey       Private                                 NA           42.2     NA                   9               NA
Luclen DeJean             Mechanical         Niamey       Private                                  2.5          2       5        (1)         5.5              5               2.085
Ousmaaie Canha            Printing           Niamey       Private                                  2.6          2.c     3        (1)        11                6                1.737
Fermes Pilotes            Agriculture        Niamey       Public                   .              NA           41.4     6        (1)         3               NA
Laosialy Dan Azokni       Transport          Zitider      Private                 1975            58.6         10       4        (1)        55                6              40.695
Mhmarne IJjitaou          Tourism            Maradi       Private                                128           50       6        (i)         8.55            10               52.500
Soreniger                 Tyres              Niamey       Private                                 80.5        20        6        (1)        11.75            13              24.520
Mme Bolh)o                Services           Niamey       Private                  ".7                         1.5      3                   12                3
Diallo Gmar Kodo          Housingt            Niamey      Private                                 NA           6        3                   11               NA
Air Afrique               Transport          Niamey       Public/Private          1976           200        100         5                   10.5             NA                 -
SN1'N                     Trarnsport         Dosso        Public/Private                          97.5       70         6        (1)        1C.5             NA                 _               0
SNCTN                     Housin g           Niamey       Public/Private                          NA         70         6        (1)        10.75            NA                 -
College S.ni All Her      School             Niamey       Private                  6              20.7       15         6        (1)        10.5             18                4.791
College Humanit4          School             Niamey       Private                                 21.4        13        4        (1)        10.5             14                6.375
Atlantide                 Tourism            Agadez       Private                                 51          17.7      6        (1)        10.5              7               28.1,50
Cominak                   Mining             Agadez       Public/Private                       2000        2000         4        (2)        10.5             NA
Sonitan                   Leather            Maradi       Public/Private                         28           18        6                   110.5            18                6.475
OIFEDES                   Agriculture        Niarney      Public                   U              NA         22.8       6        (1)         9               NA
3(:ICiC  Tl               li-using           Niamey       Public                 ly77            70          70         6   ' 1)            10.5             NA
,l-nexci lI               Services           Niamey       Private                 197'7         124          89        10   "   (1)         10.5             18              28.708
Mahamane Cha'veye 11      Garage             Niamey       Private                 1977           149        129         6        (1)        10.5            -20               26.875



- 31-                          MIU  I
A.Ays1S ot ttadlug od Larsm Prolecto
of Seatemier 30. 1977
( C   rlr CFS1al lo
Prolt Stze2/                Number          2         AUMt C                  without Coejoak -
(CtAt dllto}              Gof Projects    ___
(CIA? million)                    -           -    -
Up to 10                       3          12               5.8    0.2              O. 
11 to 30                       3          12             46       1.2              2.5
31 to  .00                    11          44            329.8    8.7              18.3
101 to 300                     4          16            368       9.7             20.4
301 to 1.999                   3          12          1.050      27.6             58.3
25                         1          *           2,000      52.6              -
25        LaO           3.799.6  100               99.9
CLtgLt size                 Number          2         A2 t2 witbc   Co-in"
(CIA? e11llon)            of_Proj*ct. -             -        -
up to 10                       4          13.3           -11.7    0.3              0.7
13 to 30                      10          33.3          161.3    4                 8.1
31 to 100                     10          33.3          529.6   13.3              26.7
101 to 300                     3          10            469      1l.8             23.6
301 to 1.99                    2           6.7          810      20.4             40.3
2.000                          1          3.3         2.000      50.2             -
30         99.9         3.991.8  100              100
3/            .    1          I          A2         c 7.
IMLAA0-L~ of rtoj*oz                       _         of Credit
L*etcha  $S 1.2C               a
1.20L - 2,500                  2          12.5            4.2    0.4
2.301 - 5.000                  1           6.2           15       1.3
5.001. - 10.000                4          25            496      44.2
1000,W- 20.000                1           6.2           20       1.8
20.001 - 40,000                6          37.5          525.7   46.9
40.000                         2          12.5           60       5.4
16         99.9         1.120.9  100
Average $4,293
Resion                     ot               I         Amount       2         without Co!loek
of  ftolette              OfC2r3.t -
Tism"  Ir  70          1.096      27              55.3
Mh tdL                         4          1.3.3          548     14               27.7
Cindr                          Z           6.7          230       6               12.6
Ao"s                      2          6.7         2,017.8   51                0.8
Othar                          1           3.3           70       2                3.5
30        100           3.981.8  100               99.9
Sector           hmber                                             2      2 without Coudnok
of Proleccs
Agroindut?V  A" A1rIcUltUre-       ST          16.6           764.2   19.2             35.5
Cottructto and boomS                5          16.6           548.2   13.8             27.6
Transport                           6          20             311      9.3             18.7
S.r,inss including tourism          0          26.6          241.2    6                12.2
Other ioaductrie/                   5          16.6            57.2    1.4              2.9
K3.LUS                              1           3.3        2.000      50.2              -
30         99.7         3,981.8   99.9             99.9
2/  05 project. Comimek. represents abowe 50.27 of th. tot-l portfolio;
2/ onli 25 pro5ects. out of 30. have data allowing this table, representing 955  of
the total portfolJo.
3/ Only 16 proj cts, out of 30, hes data ello,d-        this cable.  They repre.soc only
56.35 of the total, but thai co,er the ,hols range of the projsets scala.
4/  Other lodcrisa include paper. princlot. tir. and leather iodatriAs.



BDRN
Long-term Loan Portfolio
As of September 30, 1977
(in CFAF million)
Name          Sector      Location   Ownership       Date of       Total Project   BDRN   Duration   Interest   Nuwber
Approval         Investment    Loan(grace period)  Rate    Of Jobs
Created
Nitex          Textile         Niamey    Public/Private  1968               21183        640   10 years (5)   6%         200
Sonitan        Leather         Maradi      Public/Private 1970                 80         20   10               7X        40
Asecna         Transport       Niamey      Public          1970               NA          80    8               6%        NA
Sepani         Agroindustry   Mageria    Private           1971               973        165   10              7%        128
Sorentente     Tourism         Ayorou     Public/Private 1973                  90         25   14 (3 )         8%         NA
OPT            Telecommunica- Niamey       Public          1974               140         62,5 12               6%        NA
tions
oo N
Ln 



tquity Portfolio.   e    Sept.0ber 30. 19Tr
Date of          Initial         V.I, of             Tto1
e 8 AtoueAUnt O7                   Sf5                                              34                -           ForeiMn     rec                               C - ts
Investtent             As of 9/t017       A.                                   -           Mig.rIeD
Sonuci                iousins                   1962               33.7            33.7               115             63            29              8                _            _
Copro Niger           Trad-                                        30              60                 600             834            10            "A               KA           2.5
Sonar.               Agricultur'                                   62.5            62.5               700             78             9             MA               NA           3.5
Credit du Niger       SenSlIg                   1963               40              40                 l1o             b6            27              9               18            -
SRC Ce-nt                                                          87.1            81.I               900             NA                           MA               KA                        P Frovalion;   50 K.
SNGTN                 Public WorS"                                 11              11                 200             70             11             2               17            -            oully Pro-isioe4 - Ibw coapny 1' contitutlon
Soniteam             H.l.1                      1965               23.8            23.8 t2175                         75             i8             6                1            -           Bad Situatlon
Chemical                                     15.2            15.2               175             18             8             36               38           9,5
SNTU                 Transport                                      0.3             0.3                 5             95             5             -                -             -           Taken over by 6NS
Soocer.                Minirg                   1966                3.5             3.5                62             89              6             5
Bit Niger             Agriculture               1966                0.5             0.5                30.4           98              2                             - _
Air Niger             Tranport                  1967                1.41 1.3                           28             51              5             -               44
Sotrami              Agroindu.try                                   0.3             0.3                59             96             0.5            2.5              1            -
Br nignr              Food l4duatry                                33              33                 495             -              T             -                95           5.3          PiDR's particip.tions   234 H. ip 67, 3  . in 76.
WItet                 Te.tilco                  1968                38.8          438.8               721              9              6             15              70             -          Very S.d aituatino. Prov-io         43 3.8.8 1.
Soniprim              Agriculture               19t0                1.9             1.9                20             75             9              1               17             .          Proviions   1.9 M.
Sucr du Niger        Agriculture                                   3.               4                   5             20            a0             -                -             -           Proviala   43. M. New proect In view
SNPE                 Sori.ce.                   19.1                3.5             3.5                12.5           -             28             72               -             -           Frowisions   3.5 HK.
Nigelec               Public utilitieS                             20              20               2,3C0             33  5           1            -                 0.5          -
SNCP                 Agriculture                                    5.2             5.2                60             84             9              5                2            -
Miler Tours           Touri                     19721                               1                   5             80            20       _        _     _                                 Pruvisione ; 1 t4 Conb    lquid te4
SNT?                 Transport                    "5                                4                  60             95             6               1                                        h a 8d los-es
Sonitm               Arir lture                 1973                3               3                  52             27              6             6               61             -
siconiger             Agroindustry                                 13.3            135                450             35              3              5              63             -          iDR I'a prticliptio :  10 Id. An 73,  3  K4 in 76
INN                  Printing                                      21.5           21.5                 40             -             S0                              50            -
SNAt                  Services                                      7.5            14.4               IS              8               9IIA                          IIA            -
SopaC                 Paper                                        12.5            12.5                25             -             50             50               -           13
Sonhiph              C-rce                                        140.5           140.5               140.5           _             100            -                _             _           Subsidiary ot elDRN - Fuly provisIoned
Montehaln            Textilea                   193                12              12                 430             -              50             -               S0                        Provinions   12 M. FADA project ip  lew
mitr-                 Tracuport                                     I              11                 100             3.6            11              8               55
G.gosin  .eOcr.l     C-mere                                        30              29                 100             71             29             _-                                        New colvc ny in vie-
S.-nich.r            Public utillt"on           1975               80              80                 760             89             11            _-                              -          Starting up co any
SIIA                 TouriSm                    1976                1.8             1.8                73             -              2.5           -                97.5          -
P igy Niger           Cesicale                  197'1              37.5            37.5              IS0             26             25             _                49            _           DlvlioP of Soniph.
..nifvc              l'ectilec                                     25             22                  100            17             25             -                58
BW.2                                                                                                   s



BDRN
State Credits Portfolio
As of September 3, 1977
(in CFAF Millions)
Date of        Amount          Amount                       Interest
Name             Convention      Authorized      Disbursed    Outstanding         Rate       Duration
Prefinancin~gs                             (Convention not yet  signed or bridge financing)
Solar Energy                       _             97.0           92.1            7.3           8.5%           -
FH-TV OPT                          -          2,280.0        1,026.7             -            9%             -
Airplane Purchase                  -            751.9          713.9          713.9           8.5%           -
National Defence                   -            480.8          455.9          455.9           8/5%           -
CES Airport Agadez                 -            354.4          345.4          345.4           8.5%           -
IBRD Maradi Project                -             72.8           46.9           46.9           0.75%          -
Term Credits
Agriculture Koutkale              8/75          461.0           442.0         369.0           5,5%        5 years
Road Arlit - Agadez              11/75           34.9            32,0          13,0           6%          3   "
CEG 73                            5/74           83,3           75,0           NA             4%          4   "
Laboratory Construction           8/75           94.0           94.0           76.5           6%          6
CEG 75                            8/75          405,1          392,0          324.4           5.5%        6
Road Guidimouni - Guidiquir       8/75           80.0           80.0           65.1           6%          5   "
Nigelec                           8/75          286.0          286,0          232.6           6%          6
Rice Palantation Tillabery        6/68           83.0           83.0           19.4           5%          7   "
Hotel Sahel                       3/72           77.5           77.5            8.6           6%          7   "
S,N.G.T.N.                        1/73          260,0          260.0          160.3           4%          7
Sonara                            7/76       1,671.7         1,671.7        1,464             8.5%        4
Grain Silos                       7/76          360.0          215.1          403 V/          8,5%        3
Sonichar                          7/76       1,200.0         1,130,15       1,509.5 -         9%          4
O.C,B.N.                          7/75          100.0          100,0           95.4           7,5%        4
1/  Includes temporary advance CFAF 188 million
2/     Includes temporary advance of CFAF 379 million                                                                  N



BDRN
Income Statements
1973 - 1977
(in CFAF millions)
1973     x      1974   %      1975    %      1976    %        1977    %
Income
Interest from loans                     624    72,7   1,060  76.4  1,249   74.6  2,188  78.6    2,759   76.9
Fees and Commissions                     216    25,1      309  22.3    374   22.3    453  16.3          678   19
Other Income                              18     2,2       18   1.3      52    3.1    142   5           119    3.3
Extraordinary profits                     -       -        -,    -      -      -         2   0.1         30    0.8
Total Income                     858   100      1,387  100   1,675   100   2,785  100         3,586   100
Expenditures
Personnel Expenses                      124    18.2       151   13.5   171    13.6   202   9.2          240    8.5
Other Administrative Expenses           100    14.7       169   15      108      8.6   128   5.8        168    5.8
U-n
Total Administrative             224   (32.9)    320  (28.5)  279   (22.2)  330  (15.0)    408   (14.3)
Expenses
Financial Charges                       194    28.5       354   31.6   321    25.6   942   42.8   1,052    36.7
Depreciation                              18     2.6       21    1.9    25       2.      26    1.2       46      1.6
Taxes and duties                           7     1         10    0.9      8      0.6      9    0.4       12      0.4
Provisions                              237    34.9       416   37.    621    49.5   892   40.6   1,344    47.
Extraordinary losses                     -        -         1    0.1      1      0.1    -      -         -       -
Total Expenditures              680      100    1,122   100   1,255   100  2,199   100    2,862    100
Net profit before Taxes                178                265            420           586              724
Taxes                                   62                106            147           234              290
Net profit after Taxes                 116                159            273           352              434
Pa 
aQ 
H 



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
BDRN
191-197397                   95977
(I?CAV M411innim
Assets
Cash, banks and correspondents                   36273        ,2436     28416       42,5        3,76954
Discount62                                                   102           84         09375
Curreunt Acconts                                 31059       6,403      9,750      11,368      12,625
Current Accounts                                   395         373         573        956       1,221
Checks aad Bills in circulation                  1,141       1,516       4,308      2,987       3,024
Misc. derbtrs and other                            (701)      (525)       (605)    (2,436)    (1,969)
Total Current Assets Net                   8,304     11T396      18,080      23,082     21,350
State Credits                                      684         924      2,980       3,447       6,339
Staff Housing Loans  /           -                             1
DeveLopment Portfolio
Medium Term                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~1,041  769  2,055      3,601
(Provisions)                              2,060         (17)        (17)       (17)        (19)
Long--Tern                                                   1,152        830         804         620
Equi-tyrs                                          466         496        520         744        858
(quity                                            -            (84)       (72)       (173)       (212)
(Provisions)                              2,526       2,588      2,030      3,413       4,848
Net portfolioets                                   117         114        169         399         764
Total Assets                                 11, 631    1 741       23,256      27,652     33,442
Liabilities
Current: Accounts                                5,836       6,464      8,498       9,781      12,077
Deposits of Six Months; or less                  1,472       3,814      3,431       2,718        2,578
Misc. Short-Term Liabllities                     1,367       2,251.     7,160       4,792        7,154
Treasury Deposits                                 -           -          -          6,000        6,800
Deposits one year or more.                                                279         279          279
Savings Deposits                                  -           -            24          48           79
Term Borrowings                                  1,414       1.347      1,337       1,336        1,233
Total Liabilities                        10,089      13,891     20,729      24,954       30,200
Equitz
Share Capital                                    1,000       1,000      1,150       1,150       1,150
Reserves and Returned Earnings                     204         265        393         600          947
General Provisions                                 337         548        984         948       1,145
Total Net Worth                            1541       1,86J       2,527        ,698       3,242
Total Liabilities and Equity                    11,630      15,738     23,256      27,652      33,442
~J    Staff Housing Loans included in medium term portfolio in 1973 and  1975,



BDRN                                      ALEX 4
Page 1
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.        forecast of Loan Approvals (CFAF millions)
1977        1978        1979        1980        1981      1982
SSE                   30          10          150         180         215      260
Other                510          668       1,031       1,157 -       945    1,089
Total              540          778       1,181      1,337       1,160    1,349
2.        Forecast of Equity Approvals (in CFAF millions)
1977         1978       1979        1980        1981      1982
62         120         180         210         240       265
3.        Commitments and Disbursements.  Commitments of development loan
are expected as follows:
P.M:  80% of approved amount in year of approval and 20% in next.
Other:  75% in year of approval and 25% in next.
Disbursmeents of commitments expected as follows:
PME: 90% disbursed in year committed and 10% in next year.
Other: 75% disbursed in year committed and 25% in next year.
4.        Term.  FME loans are expected to average four year terms with one
year of grace. Other new development loans will average seven years with
one year grace.
5.        Revenues.   Above and beyond present financial income, BDRN will
earn i) a margin of 3% on the growth of the term portfolio; ii) a 10%
average return on re-invested cash from operations, and iii) a 6% margin
on the increase in current accounts.  No earnings are expected from the
equity porttoiio.  All other income including rents and fees is expected
to grow by 8% per year.
6.        Administrative Expenses.   Administrative expenses including
personnel are expected to grow by 25% in 1978 and 20% thereafter, reflecting
increased staff, technical assistance and training expenses.
7.        Provisions.  General provisions are maintained at 5% of the net
portfolio excluding state guaranteed and doubtful credits. CFAF 300 million
in specific provisions will be written off against the portfolio each year.
8.        Fixed Assets.  Building investment is expected to increase by
CFAF 100 million in 1978 and CFAF 75 million in 1979, 80 and 81 for new
1/  Includes large Sonichar project (state coal mine)
2/ Includes large Maradi Brewery project.



_38  _                                ANNEX 4
Page 2
agencies. Annual replacement investment will be CFAF 20 million. Investment
in niew equipment and furniture is expected to be CFAF 20 million per annum.
9.        Depreciation Expenses.  The cost of building construction is
depreciated over 20 years, equipment and furniture over five years.
10.       Dividernds.  Dividend payout is increased to 10% of capital in 1978
and thereafter.
11.       Taxes.  Taxes on earnings are 40% of net profit.
12.       Other Reserves and Retained Earnings.  15% of annual net profit
must be applied to reserves by law. All after-tax profits, after deduction
of ainnual dividends and the employee welfare contribution of CFAF 30 million,
are added to reserves.
13.       CaDital.  In 1978, capit-al is doubled to CFAF 2.3 billion by incor-
porat:ion of reserves.
14.       Short-term Assets.  Approximately 80% of the annual cash flow from
operations is to be allocated to finance the growth of net short-term assets.
15.       State Credits/Treasury Deposits.  State Credits and State Treasury
Deposits are both assumed to remain constant at the 1977 level.
16.       Current Liabilities. Current accounts are assumed to grow at 5%
per annum. Other liabilities remain constant.
17.       Other Borrowings.  The net increase in other borrowings represents
new borrowings minus debt repayment. The IDA credit is assumed to be repaid
over fifteen years, with three years grace. Other borrowings are to be repaid
as specified on page 2. For new borrowings, it is assumed that the ADB credit
will be entirely approved in 1978 and disbursed half in 1978 and half in 1979.
The total IDA credit is to be disbursed as follows (in CFAF millions):
1979      1980         1981
Line of Credit:                 240       348          110
Technical Assistance
and Training                  37        37            1
Unidentified borrowings equal CEAF 250 million in 1981 and CFAF 400 million
in 1982; repayment of these borrowings will not begin until after the forecast
period.
18.       Other Resources.   It is assumed that the remaining growth of the
term and equity portfolio is financed by amortization of the existing portfolio
plus 10% of the annual cash from operations.
19.       Signature Risk.  Off balance sheets credits, including guarantee and
documentary credits, are constant at the 1977 level.



BDRN
Terms of Foreign Borrowing
(CFAF millions)
as of 30 September 1977
Source                 Date                Amount              Interest                   Maturity               Amount
Loaned                Rate                                         Outstanding
Foreign
C.C.C.E. I                8/ 9/65                39                   3.75%                14 years with                9
5 years grace
.C.C.C.E. II               7/10/68               640                   4.5%                 10 years with              353
6 years grace
C.C.C.E. III              6/27/70                20                   4.5%                  9 years with               10
5 years grace
C.C.C.E. IV              11/21/70                80                   3.5%                 11 years with               72
7 years grace
C.C.C%E. V               10j30/74                63                   5%                   12 years with               62.5
7 years grace
USAID                     5/30/64                89                   4%                   17 years with               29
6 years grace
KFW                      12/ 6/66          Dm 2 million               3%                   14 years with               49.6
231.3 CFA                                      2 years grace
Conseil de               12/17/73               226                   3.5%                 30 years with              226
1'Eintente I                                                                             4.5 years grace
Conseil de                3/29/76               251                   3.5%                 30 years with 4             75 (total
l'Entente II                                                                             years of grace                  disbursed)
African Development       9/23/77          2 million units            8.5%   .75%          10 years with           uncommitted
Bank                                      of account           commitment fee             3 years grace
1 Local
Emprunt National          1/ 1/62               674                   4%                   18 years with              346
3 years grace
OQ2



BIRN
Forecast Balance Sheet
-1a77 - L98
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982
Assets
Cash                       1.4    462      1,301     1,869      2,550     3?155      3.900      9
Net Short Term Assets    62,5 20,888    21,384    22,206    23,000    23,838    24,716    57,2
Net Total Current Assets(63,9)21,350    22,685    24,075    25,550    26,993    28,621   (66.2)
State Credits     18.9  6,339      6,339      6,339     6,339      6,339      6,339    14.7
Term Portfolio            13    4,343      4,600     4,846      5,165     5,480      5,871    13,6
Equity                     1.9    646        766       946      1,156     1,396      1,661      3,8
Net Fixed Assets           2,3    764        826       813        795       812        749      1.7              1
Total Assets     100   33,442    35,216    37,019    39,005    41,030    43,241   100                    S
Liabilities
Current Accounts          43,8 14,655    15,300    16,000    16,800    17,600    18,500    42.8
Other Borrowings           3,7  1,233      1,413     1,612      1,84?     2,071      2,367      5,5
Treasury Deposits         20.3  6,800      6,800     6,800      6,800     6,800      6,800    15,7
Other Liabilities         22.5  7,512      7,512     7,512      7,512     7,512      7,512    17.4
Total Liabilities(90.3)30,200    31,025    31,924    32,959    33,983    35,179   (81.4)
Equity
Share Capital                3,41,150      1,150     2,300      2,300     2,300      2,300     5,3
Reserves & Returned Earn$ng.2,3  947       1,850     1,550      2,444     3,374      4,327    10,0   18,6
General Provisions           3,41,145      1,189     1,245      1,302     1,361      1,424     3,3
Total Liabilities & Equity    100 33,442    35,216    37,019    39,005    41,020    43,23f   100
GIIPZ 



BDRN
Forecast Income Statements
1977 - 1982
(CFAF millions)
1977  %      1978   1979        1980       1981       1982      X
Income
Net Financial Income                                  1,802      1,935      2,066      2,203    61.5
Yield on Invested Cash Flow                              193        99        104        109      3
Margin on New Term Investments                             4          4         3          5       .1
Margin on Current Accounts                                26         28        30         33       .9
Total Financial Incomej 1,707  67.4    1,935 1,935          2,066      2,203      2,350   (65.5)
Other Income              827  32.6       893   982       1,060      1,145     1,237    34.5
Total Income            2,534 100       2,695 2,917       3,126      3,348      3,587   100
Expenses
Administrative Expenses           420  23.2       525   630        756        907      1,088    70
Provisions                      1,344  74.3       344   356        357        359        363    23.4
Depreciation                       46   2.5        78    88          93        98        103      6.6
Total Expenses          1,810 100          947 1,074      1,206      1,364      1,554   100
Net Profit before Tax    724 100         1,758 1,843      1,920      1,987      2,033   100
Tax                       290  40          697   737        768        795        813    40
Net Profit after Tax      434(59. 9)    1,049 1,016       1,152      1,192      1,220   (60)
Fonds Social                       30  4.1         30    30          30        30         30      1.5
Dividends                          57  7.9        114   228         228       228        228    11.2
Reserves & retain earnings        347 48          905   848        894        934        962    47.6
oq 4
in -t



-  42  -A. N                                  4
BDR~~~~~  ~~         ~       'age&
BDRN
Forecast of Development Operationa
1978-82
(in CYAF Millions)
1978         .979        1980        1981        1982
Approvals
SSE                 110          150         180         215         260
Other               668         1031        1157         945'       1089
Equity             120          18O         210         240         265
Coumitments
SSE                 88          142         174         208         251
Other              501          607         868         709         817
Disbursements
SSE                  89          137         171         204         247
Other               376          580         803         749         790
Equity             120          180         210         240         265
Undisb.others      645          266          -           --
1231         1163        1184        1193        1302
Repayments
SSE                  25           69          86        107         134
Old Medium          669          574         488        414         352
Long-Term           100          100         100        100         100
Transport            60            60         32         -           -
New Medium           -             54        129       *227         300
Total             854          857         835        848         886
Net Portfolio
Term Lending       4600         4846        5165       5480        5871
Equity              766          946        1156       1396        1661
5366         5792        6321      6876        7532
N'et Increase in
Portfolio             377          306         349        345         416



_43   _               ANNEX  4
Page 7
B D R N
Projected Cash Flow Statement
1978-1982
(in CFAF millions)
Sources                         1978      1979       1980       1981      1982
Cash from Operations  I        1,027       992      1,044      1,091     1,128
New borrowings.                  180       199        235        224        296
Increase Current
liabilities                   645        700        800        800       900
Total Sources          1,852      3,041      2,079     2,115      2,324
Uses
Increase Short-term Assets  1  496         822        794        838       878
Increase Term Portfolio          257       246        319        315       391
Increase Equity Portfolio        120       180        210        240       265
Gross Fixed Assets               140        75         75        115         40
Total Uses             1,013      1,323      1,398     1,508      1,574
Sources over Uses                839       568        681        603       750
Accumulated Cash               1,301     1,869      2,550      3,157     3,905
1/      Cash from Operations = Net profit after tax tDepreciation +Provisions  (CFAF 300
million in provisions written off each, year -t Fonds Social - Dividends)
2/      It is assumed that 80% of the previous yearts cash from operations is used to
finance the growthi n short-term assets.



B D R N
Actual and Proiected Financial Ratios
1973     1974(    1975       1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Income and Expenses as X
of average total assets
=gross income                        7.7      10         8.6     iO.9      ii.7
11.    7.8       8.1    38.2         8.4     8.5
-less  --financial expenses          1.7       2.5       1.6       3.7      3.4 J                                 J         J
-administrative expenses    2.2         2.5       1.6       1.4       1.5       1.8       2         2.2       2.5       2.8
-provisions                   2.1       3         3.2       3.5       4.4       1         1         1         0.9       0.9
-taxes                        0.6       0.8       0.8       0.9       1         2         2         2         2         2
-Profit after taxes                  1.1       1.2       1.4       1.4      1.4       3         3.1       3         3          2.8
Profit as % of share capital -        11.6      15.9      23.7      30.6      37.7     91.2      48.1      50         51.7      53
Profit as % of average equity          7.7       9.5      12.6      13.5      14.6     28.2      23.8      20.7       18.2      16.2
Debt/Equity ratio
-term debt/equity 2/                 0.9       0.7      0.6       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.4       0.3       0.3       0.3
-total debt/equity -/                6.5       7.7       8.2       7        7.2       5.8       5         .4.3      4          3.5
Debt service coverage                             -         -         -         -       6.8       6.4       8.5        9.6      11.8
1/ Net profit tax.
2/ Excluding treasury deposits (special convention).
ILA



As    9os Ppein
PISSOt 35m5              Sector          Promotor                     IcOstioS     Total  Lord   hm ra gs  o!r                                                                                hCd.1   f lM                                   Cosesents
______   _____1___                12          !W    IfhE                     Beginn1t        Beginning
crested    13     Other  m03PootrOhr Niaer-Voreig,.   Appr-ocal  of Construoction  of Operstitn
Nl.ctrlc Batteries    A5se-bly Industry           .Irate          New       Ni..y          1.60    120     "A o      u5        1o        250   to        56       314      Nigsr           1/78            3/78            12/78         In construction
tosato Concentrate    Agroind"tary                   'Maradi                               220    11.0     180        so       180        -    20        20       60                       3/78          SWd 78            1S97
.satl,,g bricks         Agro1d,,stry                                        Niassay         60     20       1.0       30        10        205  -        100        -                        KA             ILA              aA
Dehydrated onions      igroind.stry                                         Sais           180      68      66         80      100        66   20       .10       70                       1978           1919             1960
Lir                    Mining                    Sonihaux    Ictonslc,n   Konl              20     10       -         20        ii        -    KA        KA       KA                       1978           19718           1978           Under atdoy
WEdona Textile.         Textiles                 pyiv.at         No.        Madonn       2,000    800   1,200    2,00          600       700   25        76            r oreiga(6o$)    sod 1978b         1978             1979
t.n.t  nSoachig         Agrolodstry                                         Gays           Bo0    200      600       500       300       300   25        75            Foreign(60%)                       1979             1960          Need kenat culture .atenslon
Cycles g fotory-o.s  As e...by Industry                                     misse,y        200    150       10        1.0      125        -    20        50        30      Niger           2/78           1978             1979          Under study
Beor canning           Agr.Indu.try              Xi.ed (2tate                              350    100      210        NA       100       150   20        20        60       Niger          1978           1979             1960
partIcLIpat Son)
Cotrinig.r             Tactile.                  priesta                                   590   j180      210       363       113       M2   20%        20%       60%  Prei.gfl(6%        1978           1978             1979          Take or,   mtcl.sir a ...ts
Hosiery                                                                     Medsoos         80      20      60         30        30       -    10        60        30      NIger           1978           1979             1980
Cotcon bandages                                                             Mac-dt         100     1.0      60         ii       60        -    20        50        30         -Not riced                    -               -Cotton q.eilty proble,w
PscrtilIl.r            igroindustry                               -         Nsay            65     20       1.5       NiA       35        -    -        100        --Under study
Snnichar EIectArIitv  Public utility             Mixed (Stats               Aed.ec    33,000       NA       NLA       NA    1,200    8,750    2          38       60                                        -                            y..sibtiity studies dons
participatioa)
Suga.- Projoot         Agriculture               State                      TIlIIhery 10,000  1.,000   6,000          NA    1,000    5,000   20          60       20
Insurance CosPany      Nervlces                  BONN                       Nilamey        150    150       -         MA        -        -       9       -        91                       1977           1977             1977          Co"pay ce-sted
Nosul Industry          Mec-facturing             ILA                          NA           50      20      30        NA        25       -      10       50        1.0        -Not ti.ed                                     -
S-oniger Mlatchbes                              Fri-st.                    Mardi          i80      55     125        55       110              -        lB        25    NlIger (80)        91              -                                                                 ,
Tennery                 Leather                   50141                     mia.sey        1.8    100      j8        100        50        30   20        20        60       Niger          1978           197              1980          Under study                         )
Floor H4i11            Agroinduetry                               0            C           100      35      65        MA        50        30   20        20       60          e1978                       1979             1980
Mineral Wster           Food                     PIA                        Ag.des       Not eatleate4                     Not sstimted                                       -Not ficed                    -                -           Not studied yet
Agriculturs1           AgroIedustr                KA                           MA          1.00     NA      NA        NA       200        -    20        10        70
Cattle Feed            Agroind-atry              state                  MAseaI lAnder   1.50    100        350        NA       200        -    20        10        70                      17                  
Cotton o1l             Agolndustry               Hixod (State                  M A         tw0     so       60        NA        20        -    10        50        1.0        -1979                         C               -              1iOnIger t.ro.jct
Processing                                       participAtion)
Maradi Be.-nry          Fodirio,te                                          hlredt       1.801      -    1,801         65  Not fIxed  1,530  Not ft.a4                    Oiger (80%)       1977          nd77           78 -79
Baker's Shop           Agroinduotry                               C         Aged.&n         20       1.     15        NA        10        -    -        100        -        Niger          1977           1978           78   79
industrial GIn         Agroloduotry                                                     M ot Ostisated                      Not e5tisated                                     -          Not fixed         -                -            qolity prohlaf
Plaster                Mining                                                           Mot sstiated                        Nu.t satIfaled                                               Not fixad 
B.a-s Canning          Agroloduatry              klI.ed (State              " Issy         100     20       80        NA        50        -    10        20        1.0      Nlger          1.919           -                             Take n.ar by INCA
participtIo,i)
Coan Fasbric            Mannicturios               "A                        NA             60      15      1.5       NA        30        -    t0        50       N.o                      1979--
Menioc                 Agrolndustry              Priests                    lAnder      Not esttmtd                         Not estisiated                                               Not fixed- 
Traceforestion,
Suger PaIlfnery        Agoindes-try                                            C         C-                                          CC--
Urban Tr .n.Porn        Tra,sport                                Ilke-                                                                                                                                     --I
Metal Workshop         M.tL.Working                                            C          C      CC                                  CC                                                         C
C-nfectioe-y           Agro.icd, try                                                      CC5                                                                                                   C
Cnontruction           Co.truction                  CCC,                                                                              
M.tert.18



- 46 -                                Annex 7
Page 1
NIGER
Selected Documents and Data Available
on Project File
A. Secto- Reports and Studies
(i)   Industrial Sector
- Nigerien Investment Codes and Statutes
- Nigerien Labor Regulations
- Nigerien Trade Regulations
- Consultant's Report on Artistic Artisan Sector
(ii)   Financial Sector
- Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO):
Policy Statements
Credit Regulations
B. Project Related Reports and Studies
(1)   BDRN
- Annual Reports and Accounts, 1971-1977
- Audit Report on 1977 Accounts
- Statutes and Policy Statement
Miscellaneous subproject appraisal and other reports and
internal documents
Consultant's Study of BDRN Operations
Conseil de l'Entente Project Documents
(2)   Artisan Center
History of National Museum
- Consultant's Report on Artisan Sector, Artisan Center
Operations and Products
-- Various Government studies of artistic artisan activities
(3)   OPEN
-- Proposed Statutes
(4)   ENA
- UNDP Project Document



Annex 7
- 47 -                        Page 2
C. Working Papers
- Data on BDRN's operations, investments, resources and
finances
- Data on BDRN's organization, staffing, recruitment
and training
- Various preparation reports
- Detailed proposals for OPEN
- Terms of reference for technical assistance and services
for all components
- Detailed forecasts; Artisan training, employment and
operation.



-48-
Annex 8
NIGER
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$000)
Fiscal Year                                         Cumulative
1979
1st quarter                -
2nd quarter               200
3rd quarter               250
4th quarter               300                        750
1980
lst quarter               400
2nd quarter               480
3rd quarter               510
4th quarter               600                     2,740
1981
1st qluarter              600
2nd quarter               600
3rd qjuarter              400
4th qjuarter              310                     4,650
1982
1st q[uarter              200
2nd qiuarter              150                     5,000



