FILE COpy                                Doumenmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqprt No. P-2217-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUITVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN SECTOR
EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
May 10, 1978
This documet has resftitd dituibu. mud may be usd by recipients only in the perfornce ef
their oflclal dut. Its eotents may not otherwie be disclsed withut World Bank authborizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = CFAF 245
The Communaute Financiere d'Afrique Franc (CFAF) is fixed with
respect to the French Franc (1FF = CFAF 50). In this report the following
conversion has been used:
US$1 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million = US$4,082
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       African Development Bank
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDRN      Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger
BIAO      Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BFCE      Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
COFIFA    Compagnie Financiere France Afrique
CPCT      Caisse de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales
CEAO      Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
DEG       Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
ENA       Ecole Nationale d'Administration
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEN      Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne
SONICA    Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile
STB       Societe Tunisienne de Banque
UMOA      Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP      United Nations Development Agency
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Niger
Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:      Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BDRN)
Artisan Center of the National Museum of Niger
Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA)
Amount:           US$5 million
Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Relending         US$3.60 million of the proceeds of the credit will be relent
Terms:           to the BDRN for a term of fifteen years including three years
of grace at the prevailing World Bank interest rate to be
repaid under a fixed amortization schedule. Of this amount
US$265,000 would be for technical assistance, $85,000 for
staff training and US$3.25 million for a line of credit.
The remaining US$1.4 million of the proceeds of the credit
will be allocated to the Artisan Center of the National
Museum, the Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne
and the Ecole Nationale d'Administration.
Project           The promotion of labor intensive employment in Niger's
Description:     industrial and artisan sectors is the primary objective of
this project which also seeks to strengthen the sector's
institutional infrastructure. A line of credit to BDRN
financed by this credit will assist relatively labor-
intensive small- and medium-scale enterprises. Technical
assistance and training programs for BDRN, including the
development of a Bank Management Training Program at ENA
to serve all six Nigerien financial institutions, will
help upgrade BDRN's Development Department. The project
would also provide financial and technical assistance,
with UNDP, for OPEN, a new agency which will provide tech-
nical assistance and training for local entrepreneurs.
Financial and technical assistance is also provided under
the project to the Artisans Center of the National Museum
to improve the productivity and employment of artisans
affiliated with the Center and to develop the export market
for their products; through this component the project will
assist some of the poorest segments of the urban population.
It is estimated that 500 jobs will be created in the modern
and utilitarian artisan sectors and 370 jobs in the artistic
artisan sub-sector. The project faces no special risks,
although realization of the employment creation goals will
depend on BDRN's success in reducing the capital intensity
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of its investments and OPEN's success in project promotion
and preparation. The technical assistance to be financed
under the project is intended to assist these institutions
in this effort.
Estimated Cost:  Total project costs are estimated at US$8.1 million,
including US$0.15 million for taxes to be paid by BDRN,
entrepreneurs and other local sources. The proposed IDA
credit of US$5.0 million would cover 63 percent of total
costs net of taxes. Details of cost estimates including
taxes are summarized in the following table:
Local   Foreign   Total
…    (US$ million)-----
BDRN
Credit line for Project financing            1.280    2.990    4.270
Training and Technical Assistance             .135     .275      .410
Government
National Museum
Technical Assistance                     .090      .260     .350
Credit                                   .060      .050     .110
Construction, Equipment and Vehicles   .210        .230     .440
Operating Costs                          .110        -      .110
OPEN
Training and Technical Assistance        .100    1.420    1.520
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles        .035      .105     .140
Operating Costs                          .590        -      .590
ENA
Banking Management Program               .020      .100     .120
2.630    5.430    8.060
Financing Plan:  The Association's contribution of US$5.0 million toward
project costs would cover US$4.3 million of the foreign
cost component and US$0.7 million of local costs.  It is
estimated that IDA's contribution towards local costs of
US$700,000, amounting to 14 percent of the credit, would
include $280,000 for BDRN loans to small-scale borrowers,
$50,000 for credit-in-kind to artisans, $210,000 for con-
struction, equipment and vehicles for the Artisan Center,
$85,000 for furniture, equipment, and installation costs
for OPEN and $75,000 to support BDRN participation in ENA's



- iii. -
Bank management and other training programs. For the
credit component, local entrepreneurs and artisans and
BDRN would contribute the balance of local costs, for
an estimated US$1 million equivalent. For technical
assistance, training and operating costs, including taxes,
the Government and BDRN would meet the balance of local
costs not covered by the IDA credit for an estimated US$.93
million equivalent. UNDP would finance the balance of the
foreign exchange costs of technical assistance, for an
estimated US$1.1 million.
Proposed Financing
(US$ million)
Other
Local
Sources
Government           and
Artisan                   Entre-
IDA    BDRN   Center   OPEN    ENA   preneurs  UNDP  Total
Credit
Artisans             0.100    -         -       -       -      0.010      -   0.110
Small Scale          1.300    -         -       -       -     0.185       -   1.485
Medium Scale         1.950  0.135       -       -       -      0.700      -   2.785
3.350  0.135      -        -      -      0.895       -   4.380
Construction,
Supplies, Equipment
Artisan Center       0.440    -         -       -       -       -         -   0.440
OPEN                 0.250    -         -       -       -       -         -   0.250
Technical Assistance,
Training, Operating
Expenses
BDRN                 0.350  0.060       -       -       -       -         -   0.410
ENA                  0.100    -         -       -    0.020      -         -   0.120
OPEN                 0.250    -        -      0.650    -        -       1.100 2.000
Artisan Center       0.260    -      0.200      -       -       -         -   0.460
Total             5.000  0.195   0.200   0.650  0.020   0.895    1.100 8.060
%              63.0    2.4      2.4     8.0    0.2    11.1       13.6    100



- i.v -
Final Date
of Project       June 1981
Submission:
Free Limit:       US$100,000 for individual sub-projects financed under the
small-scale component, after the first five sub-projects
have been approved, up to an aggregate amount of $750,000.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Fiscal Year                Annual       Cumulative
------(us$  000)------
1979                        750            750
1980                      1,990          2,740
1981                      1,910          4,650
1982                        350          5,000
Rate of           For Artisan Center Component, the rate of return exceeds
Return           30 percent.
Appraisal         Staff Appraisal Report of an Industrial and Artisan Sector
Report:          Employment Creation Project, Niger, No. 1886b-NIR, dated
April 28, 1978.
Map:              IBRD 3535R of July, 1974.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND ARTISAN SECTOR EMPLOYMENT CREATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of US$5 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for industrial and
artisan sector employment creation. US$3.60 million of the proceeds of the
credit would be relent to the Banque de Developpement de la Republique du
Niger for 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at the
standard bank rate. The United Nations Development Program would also con-
tribute US$1.1 million to the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. More recent economic
information from various sources is also incorporated in the following para-
graphs. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of about US$160 in 1976, Niger is one of
the poorest African countries and among the 29 "least developed countries"
so classified by the United Nations. The country faces a number of formidable
constraints to development including poor soils, unfavorable climatic condi-
tions, landlocked position, high energy costs, high dependence on foreign
factors and low levels of education and technical ability. Since indepen-
dence in 1960, the economy has undergone little structural change: agricul-
ture and livestock together provide employment and livelihood to over 90
percent of the population and account for nearly half of GNP and a sizeable
portion of export earnings. However, substantial growth was achieved in
recent years in industry which contributes a little over 10 percent of GNP
and particularly in uranium mining which has become an important factor in
expanding the Government's tax base and diversifying the country's exports.
Consumption has traditionally been rather high (about 95 percent of GNP)
and domestic savings modest; since investments have been relatively impor-
tant (16-18 percent of GNP), the resulting resource gap has been financed
by the substantial inflows of foreign resources.
Recent Developments
4.        Niger's recent economic developments have been characterized by
virtual stagnation in the agricultural sector and rapid expansion in mining
and industrial production. During the 1968-74 period, increasingly unfavor-
able weather and in particular the disastrous 1973/74 drought resulted in a



- 2 -
40 percent decline in the output of the staple crops (millet and sorghum)
while production of groundnuts, the single most important export crop, fell
by 70 percent and the size of cattle herds was almost reduced to half. In
1974/75, production of the main staples picked up again, thanks to improved
rainfall and increases in producer prices, but output fell again in 1975/76
to about 80 percent of the pre-drought level because of premature ending and
uneven distribution of rainfall in some of the principal cultivation areas.
In 1976/77, rainfall was almost normal and the food situation significantly
improved. The outlook for 1977/78 appears to be relatively good compared
with other Sahelian countries where inadequate and untimely rainfall caused
again severe crop failures.
5.        The dominant feature of the economy in recent years has been the
continuous expansion in uranium mining activities. Between 1971 and 1976,
investments in this sector by foreign concerns amounted to some US$275 mil-
lion and uranium concentrates production increased rapidly from some 400 tons
to about 1,600 tons, thereby facilitating the economy's recovery from the
severe effects of the 1973 drought. Thus in 1974-1976 overall real GNP growth
exceeded 32 percent and, in 1976, uranium mining accounted for about 6 percent
of GDP, over half of total exports, and provided about one-third of total
Government revenue. Present forecasts indicate that uranium production will
reach about 3,500-4,000 tons by 1980 with the entry into production of a
second mine.
6.        Stimulated by this improvement in domestic income and by the impact
of the growing trade with Nigeria, the industrial and services sectors, in-
cluding transport and construction, have also expanded rapidly and accounted
for about 26 percent of GDP in 1976, although this relative increase also re-
flects the drought-induced decline of agricultural and livestock activities.
Public Finance
7.        Over the last seven years, an austere spending policy, together with
rapidly rising revenue, mostly from uranium mining, have enabled the Govern-
ment to generate substantial current budgetary savings which amounted to
about CFAF 10.0 billion (US$41 million) in fiscal 1976/77 and may reach
CFAF 13 billion (US$53 million) in fiscal 1977/78. Two features of particular
importance are introduced in the current 1977/78 budget: first, the elimina-
tion of the head tax levied on all citizens between the ages of 15 and 65,
with a view to reducing the tax burden on lower income groups; and second, the
rise in capital expenditures in absolute as well as in relative terms, from
CFAF 10 billion in 1976/77 (28 percent of total budgetary expenditures) to
CFAF 13 billion (31 percent) with a corresponding increase in the share of
rural development investments. Both measures reflect Government's increasing
concern with the problems of social equity and economic growth. The substan-
tial increase in budgetary savings has also facilitated the elimination of
French budgetary grants which averaged about CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5.0 mil-
lion) annually over the 1970-75 period, and the increase in the proportion of
budgeted capital expenditures in total public investments from 10 percent in
1970-75 to almost 20 percent in 1977/78.



-3-
Balance of Payments
8.        Following a deficit of CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.1 million) in 1974,
when depressed agricultural exports and worldwide inflation resulted in the
doubling of trade balance deficit, the balance of payments returned to equili-
brium in 1975, and recorded a substantial surplus amounting to CFAF 10.4 bil-
lion (US$42.4 million) in 1976. The main factors underlying this outstanding
performance are the considerable reduction of trade balance deficit due not
only to rapidly increased uranium exports, but also to sizeable reduction in
the importation of materials and equipment. The indication for 1977 is good,
with the expected increase in uranium exports to at least 1,800 tons and the
43 percent increase in uranium prices in early 1977, and providing the rising
trend of foreign aid of recent years continues.
Development Issues and Prospects
9.        Niger's medium-term development potential lies primarily in the
rural sector which provides employment and livelihood of about 90 percent
of total population. Thus the Government's strategy rightly gives top prior-
ity to efforts to improve agricultural productivity and to alleviate the
economy's vulnerability to the vagaries of the weather, with a view to en-
suring some degree of food self-sufficiency and promoting cash crops. The
basic constraints to be tackled are the poor and apparently deteriorating
soil fertility and the scarcity of arable land in relation to the rapidly
growing population: the cropping area amounts to about 10 percent of total
land area, only one-fifth of which (i.e. 2 percent) is under cultivation
at any given time under the existing system of shifting cultivation. The
Government has therefore initiated a "productivity program" aimed at intro-
ducing more intensive farming through provision of extension services, dis-
semination of adapted varieties and introduction of appropriate agricultural
techniques and implements. Special efforts are needed to restore exports of
a few cash crops, cotton and especially groundnuts which have suffered from
the drought in 1972/74 and attacks from pests in recent years. Increasing
attention is also given to forestry in recognition of the vital role of
forests in maintaining the country's fragile ecological equilibrium and as
the most important source of energy in the medium term.
10.       While the productivity program, which is expected to eventually
cover the entire rainfed agriculture area, represents the best way to improve
the standards of living of the vast majority of the rural population, it
cannot alleviate the precariousness of Niger's long-term food situation.
The Government therefore gives priority to development of hydro-agricultural
schemes which alone could lessen the country's vulnerability to the vagaries
of the weather and offer a viable solution to the land shortage problem.
Development of the country's considerable irrigation potential (up to 200,000
ha) would, however, await construction of a proposed regulatory dam on the
Niger River. In the meantime, there are some 16,000 ha which the Government
intends to develop for double cropping at the rate of about 1,000-2,000 ha
annually.



- 4 -
11.       Regarding livestock, the herd reconstitution program initiated in
1978 is progressing satisfactorily but pre-drought cattle numbers will not be
reached until 1990. In order to avoid problems of overgrazing, the strategy
for full development of the livestock potential also aims at establishment
of an organization for land use and grazing patterns based on a recognition
of the complementarity of Niger's different ecological zones.
12.       While the thrust of development efforts is centered on the rural
sector, Government also attaches priority to the prospecting and exploita-
tion of the country's mineral resources. As indicated above, uranium already
provides much needed momentum to the economy through substantial Government
revenues and export earnings. In addition, there are indications of large
but as yet unassessed phosphate deposits which could be exploited for exports
and for fertilizer production. Several foreign companies are also actively
engaged in oil and gas prospection. There is therefore a considerable poten-
tial for mineral production; the judicious utilization of the resulting mining
proceeds could lay a sound basis for sustained economic growth and diversifi-
cation. The industrial sector offers favorable opportunities for productive
employment of Niger's urban and rural population. Prospects for development
of trade with Nigeria, import substitution activities, construction, services
and agro-industries to support and stimulate rural sector development, are
most attractive. However, some improvements are needed in Government indus-
trial policies as well as technical assistance and increased investment funds.
13.       Despite considerable achievement in the past two decades in terms
of primary and secondary school enrollments, Niger's education base has im-
proved only marginally: more than 90 percent of the population is still
illiterate and, overall, the shortage of qualified manpower for project iden-
tification, preparation and implementation, constitutes the most critical
development constraint in the medium term. There is therefore increasing
recognition within Government that a major educational reform is needed.
Inadequacy of economic infrastructure, mainly for transport, is another
limiting factor which has also received high priority and increased finan-
cial resources.
Interim Program (1976-1978)
14.       This general line of the Government's strategy is broadly reflected
in the Interim Program, currently being implemented, which proposed public
investments of CFAF 78.2 billion (US$320 million) during the 1976-1978 period.
This plan gives emphasis to infrastructure and power (46 percent of total in-
vestments), agriculture (33 percent) and development of human resources (18
percent). About one-fourth of total investment was expected to be financed
by domestic resources, reflecting the Government's determination to mobilize
domestic savings to the fullest extent possible. Nevertheless, in view of
Niger's poverty and still limited growth prospects, external funds should
continue to be provided on the most concessionary terms. Moreover, foreign
aid agencies should consider financing a high proportion of total project
costs, including local costs.



- 5 -
15.       Between 1971 and 1975, Niger's total recorded net flow of resources
from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about U$$80 million
annually of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. No reliable infor-
mation is available on external flows from other sources. The European
Development Bank (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major
aid donors along with Saudi Arabia and Algeria which have expanded their
programs in the last two years.
16.       At the end of 1975, external public debt outstanding amounted to
US$231.7 million, including an undisbursed amount of US$109.1 million. The
ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services was 3.5
percent in 1973 and remained manageable at 5.8 percent in 1975. No signifi-
cant increase in external debt has taken place over the last two years and no
debt servicing problems are foreseen in the near future. The Bank Group ranks
as Niger's second largest creditor with 17.3 percent of total debt outstanding
and disbursed. This level reflects the fact that the major bilateral donors
are making most of their aid available on a grant basis. IDA's share in total
debt service payments is insignificant.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
17.       Beginning with an IDA credit for road construction in 1964, eleven
IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so far been approved
for Niger totalling US$53.5 million net of cancellations. A twelfth credit
for a forestry project is to be considered by the Executive Directors shortly.
Past Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated on transport and communica-
tions, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of the country:
of the nine projects approved to date, four aimed at expanding and up-grading
the domestic road network, one provided for improvement and extension of
existing facilities at Niamey international airport and another for the
installation of a more reliable telecommunications system. The Association's
lending to date for the rural sector includes an agricultural credit project,
a drought relief project and the Maradi rural development project. In general
these operations are proceeding satisfactorily. Annex II contains a summary
statement of these credits as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of
on-going projects.
18.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will increasingly focus on efforts to ensure some degree of
food self-sufficiency and to improve the incomes and standards of living of
the rural population; to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure where
there are still deficiencies to overcome; to develop alternative approaches
to training and educational reform; and to diversify the economic structure
and expand modern sector employment. We will also continue to advise Govern-
ment on long-term issues and options through our economic work.
19.       For the three fiscal years 1978-80, about half of IDA's lending to
Niger will go to the rural sector. In addition to the forestry project which
will shortly be presented to the Board, we plan to finance: an irrigation



project aimed at developing rice production and at assisting Government in
carrying out institutional reforms in this sector, including the establishment
of a national agency for the construction and management of all irrigation
schemes; a livestock project in support of efforts to speed up the reconsti-
tution of herds, to increase livestock productivity and to promote effective
participation of the pastoralists in the management and improvement of com-
munal rangelands and stock watering points; and a second rural development
project designed to achieve sustained increase in foodgrain production and
in rural incomes in the Dosso area.
20.       In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance in the con-
struction of a network of secondary and access roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program while continuing our support for maintenance of
the existing infrastructure; the feeder roads project currently under prep-
aration will mark a first step towards this objective. The proposed education
project will address the urgent problem of developing qualified high and mid-
dle level manpower, particularly for agricultural development activities; it
will also aim at some limited expansion in enrollment, improvement in the
quality of existing institutions and development of non-formal education pro-
grams. In general, all future projects will also include, as needed, train-
ing, technical assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening
institutions. Regarding the industrial sector, the proposed industrial and
artisan sector employment creation project would provide technical and finan-
cial assistance for employment creation activities and form the basis for our
dialogue with Government on the future development of this sector.
PART III - THE SECTOR
21.       As is typical in West Africa, informal and small-scale industries
dominate Niger's industrial sector, although the still small modern sector
is assuming increased importance. Twenty-five companies employing a total
of 3,000 persons constitute the core of the modern non-construction industrial
sub-sector. Eleven new modern sector enterprises, to employ 300 persons, are
in preparation. The burgeoning construction sector employs in excess of
8,000 persons. The artisan subsector is probably the dominant component of
the industrial sector, but there is no accurate data to measure its real con-
tribution; estimates of artisan employment range up to 25,000 persons. 1/
The highest skilled of these artisans have maintained traditional techniques
of handwork in leatherwork, silverwork, weaving and pottery. The Artisan
Center of the National Museum of Niger, in Niamey, has become the focal point
for these so-called "artistic-artisans", providing various services as well
as a sales outlet for the work of about 160 affiliated artisans.
22.       Prospects.  The stimulus of an improving domestic economy plus the
considerable impact of the growing trade with Nigeria, its southern neighbor,
offer attractive prospects for Niger's industrial development. Reasonable
1/   IMF Staff estimates.



potential for further development of both the modern and artisanal elements
of the sector may be found in import substitution industries, in the process-
ing of local materials, including agricultural products, in the production
and repair of equipment for agriculture, in construction industries to serve
the requirements of the growing urban centers as well as the large rural
development projects, and in exporting the products of the artistic artisans.
23.       Constraints.  The continued sound expansion of Niger's industrial
sector will depend on overcoming the obstacles posed by high transport, energy
and construction costs, inadequate local production capacity for building
materials, the critical scarcity of skilled labor and technical assistance
and the inadequacy of term financing and investment capital resources. Bal-
anced development of the sector is further restricted by burdensome regula-
tions and a poor incentive system which, for example, excludes all enterprises
with fixed assets below 10 million CFAF from incentive benefits.
24.       A Government commission is presently reviewing the whole structure
of policies and incentives with the objective of rationalizing these regula-
tions. The Association will advise the Government on these issues in the
context of a forthcoming industrial sector mission. Elimination of present
discrimination against smaller enterprises and artisans, as the first step in
the longer process of policy reform, is an immediate objective of the proposed
IDA credit. Toward this end, the Government has confirmed that all expendi-
tures for goods and services financed under the proposed line of credit for
this project will be exempt from all taxes and duties. Thus, small enter-
prises and artisans assisted by this credit will receive benefits equivalent
to those offered by the investment codes.
Interest Rates and Financial Regulation
25.       As a member of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA), Niger shares
a common currency (CFAF), Central Bank (BCEAO) and credit and monetary poli-
cies with Senegal, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo and Upper Volta. BCEAO super-
vises all of Niger's financial institutions. Interest rates charged by banks
in BCEAO member countries are regulated by BCEAO policy. A standard redis-
count rate of 8.0 percent is charged, with an allowable spread of up to 5
percent, permitting a final maximum rate of 13 percent except for priority
sectors including Government, housing, small-scale enterprises (defined as
locally owned enterprises having outstanding credit of CFAF 20 million or
less) and agricultural trade for which final maximum lending rate is 8.5
percent. However, in order to permit mobilization of external resources for
lending to these preferential sectors, BCEAO allows member states to create
an interest subsidy fund, financed by BCEAO profits in that state. For small-
scale loans subject to the Central Bank's ceiling of 8.5 percent on final
interest rates, BDRN will be compensated by a Government interest subsidy
of 2.5 percent, being the difference between BDRN's on-lending rate of 11
percent for medium-scale loans and the on-lending rate for small-scale loans
(Section 3.01(b) of the Credit Agreement).



-8-
Institutional Framework
26.       The Banking System.  Six institutions comprise the Nigerien banking
system. The Caisse de Prets aux Collectivites Territoriales (CPCT) finances
regional infrastructure projects. Societe Nigerienne de Credit Automobile
(SONICA) finances personal vehicles. Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(CNCA) serves the agricultural sector exclusively. Credit du Niger provides
housing and consumer loans. Niger has two commercial banks: the Banque
Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BIAO) and the Banque de Developpement
de la Republique du Niger (BDRN), which is also Niger's main development
financing institution.  BDRN's main purpose has been to assure access to
credit for Nigerien entrepreneurs. All financial institutions except BIAO are
public-owned or controlled and managed primarily by Nigeriens. In 1975, BDRN
provided more than 63 percent of all credits in the economy and more than 80
percent of all term credits to industry. BDRN is the key financial interme-
diary for the development of Niger's industrial sector.
27.       Project Intermediaries.  Two existing institutions have been iden-
tified as primary intermediaries for the proposed IDA project: BDRN and the
Artisan Center of the National Museum. A proposed Bank Management Training
program would be carried out by the Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA).
A new institution would also be created under the project, the Office de
Promotion de l'Entreprise Nigerienne (OPEN), a technical assistance agency
for the industrial sector.
Banque de Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BDRN)
28. BDRN was established in 1961 by the Government of Niger, with the
assistance of Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB), which is still providing
technical assistance through seconded staff. BDRN's capital of CFAF 1.15
billion (US$4.7 million) is 53 percent controlled by Government and para-
statal entities. BDRN's commercial operations represent 80 percent of its
business. BDRN has received support from CCCE, ADB and KfW, as well as USAID,
both directly and through the Conseil de l'Entente's African Enterprise Pro-
gram of assistance to small Nigerien entrepreneurs. Professional staff,
which numbers 46 out of a total staff of 379, is of good caliber but thinly
spread. Improved staff training programs are clearly needed.
29.       Policies and Procedures.  At the recommendation of the Associa-
tion, BDRN's policy statement is being modified to further limit its finan-
cial exposure in a single enterprise or its commitment to an individual
project. BDRN's first audit by an independent firm acceptable to the Asso-
ciation has just been completed. BDRN has also agreed to have such audits
conducted by an acceptable firm on an annual basis (Section 3.02 of Project
Agreement).



-9-
30.       Development Operations.  BDRN's outstanding medium- and long-term
development loan portfolio totaled CFAF 4.3 billion as of September 30, 1977;
outstanding equity investments amounted to CFAF 858 million. Almost 90 per-
cent by number of BDRN's loans have assisted private concerns; more than half
of the term loans have assisted enterprises having a total investment below
CFAF 10 million. The volume of loans to small scale enterprises declined in
1977 with the exhaustion of the second USAID/Conseil de l'Entente lines of
credit under the African Enterprise Program. In 1977, BDRN approved nine
medium-term credits totaling CFAF 542 million and 2 equity investments total-
ing CFAF 62.5 million. Agricultural processing and agro-industry, miscel-
laneous industry and construction are the primary sectors assisted by BDRN's
development financing.
31.       More than 1,600 jobs have been created through projects in BDRN's
outstanding portfolio. Under the African Enterprise Program, the median in-
vestment per job was only about $2,000 for commercial and artisanal services.
The median cost per job for medium and large projects was about $8,500 - the
average reflecting the effect of one particularly attractive large project
with a median cost per job of $4,000. Excluding this project, the median
cost per job for BDRN's larger projects exceeded $20,000 and ranged as high
as $50,000 - a range maintained in projects expected to be approved in the
first six months of 1978. This high job creation cost reflects the high cost
of construction and imported equipment and frequent overdesign of projects.
An engineer is therefore being financed under the proposed project, to be
shared by OPEN and BDRN, to advise on more efficient and labor intensive
project design as well as to encourage the development of more appropriate
technologies for Nigerien projects.
32.       State Transactions.  In addition to its normal development and
commercial banking operations, BDRN had, as of September 30, 1977, an out-
standing fully guaranteed portfolio of CFAF 6.3 billion in short and medium-
term credits to state investment projects. To finance these non-discountable
credits, BDRN has depended on state treasury deposits, presently totaling
CFAF 6.8 billion for a term of six months renewable. To insure BDRN's long-
term financial equilibrium, assurances have been received from the Government
that the State will at all times maintain sufficient otherwise uncommitted
resources at BDRN to cover all outstanding credits in BDRN's state credits
portfolio.
33.       Financial Performance and Prospects.  At the end of 1977, BDRN's
total assets amounted to CFAF 33.4 billion (US$136.5 million), reflecting
primarily the growth of commercial operations. BDRN's ratio of long-term
debt to equity, 0.56:1 as of September 30, 1977, is low, demonstrating BDRN's
considerable term-borrowing capacity. BDRN's profits have been increasing
rapidly and in 1977 amounted to CFAF 435 million, or 13.4 percent of net worth.
The portfolio affected by arrears amounts to CFAF 4 billion, or about 19 per-
cent of outstanding total portfolio, primarily for short-term credits. How-
ever, negotiations to resolve these arrears are proceeding successfully with
the three large companies responsible for 50 percent of this amount. General
provisions equal to 5 percent of the total, non-guaranteed, portfolio plus



- 10 -
substantial specific provisions assure adequate coverage of these arrears.
BDRN's financial position is basically sound and is expected to remain so over
the forecast period.
The National Museum of Niger
34.       The National Museum of Niger, founded in 1959, is the major cultural
institution in Niger and one of the most respected in Africa. The Museum is
supported by an annual Government budget allocation. About 160 of Niger's
best craftsmen are affiliated with the Museum's Artisan Center, established in
1967 to promote traditional quality handwork. The Artisan Center is managed
by a small untrained staff financed by the cooperative of artisans affiliated
with the Center.
35.       With very limited financial resources, the Center provides a rough
workshop for the artisans, maintains a shop through which are sold the majority
of artisan's products and advances funds for leather purchase. Sales through
the Museum shop have stagnated since 1972 at the CFAF 40 million level. This
appears to be due to the inability of the artisans, in the present situation,
to mobilize the resources necessary to maintain or expand output or to achieve
the quality control necessary for sizeable export sales.
36.       Prospects.  Preliminary market tests in Europe of typical Artisan
Center products have indicated a sizeable potential demand for these goods,
especially leather goods, if a large and stable supply of high quality goods
can be assured. The proposed project will help build the Artisan Center
into a commercially viable operation offering employment to a substantial
number of artisans at relatively low cost.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was first identified by a reconnaissance
mission in February 1977 and was appraised in November 1977. Negotiations
were held in Washington on April 20-22, 1978, with a Government delegation
led by the Minister of Economic Affairs, Industry and Commerce. Annex III
contains supplementary project data, and the Staff Appraisal Report No.
1886b-NIR is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description and Objectives
38.       The primary objective of this three year project (1979-81), is to
promote employment creation in Niger's industrial sector while strengthening
the sector's institutional infrastructure through the provision of technical
and financial assistance and improvements in the industrial policies. Toward
these ends, an IDA credit of US$5 million will provide:



- 11 -
(a)  a credit of US$3.60 million for BDRN, of which a line of credit
of US$3.25 million would finance relatively labor-intensive
small- and medium-scale enterprises, the balance of the credit
providing technical assistance and training programs to upgrade
BDRN's Development Department. In addition, US$100,000 will be
allocated to the Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA) for the
development of a Bank Management Training Program;
(b)  financial and technical assistance in the amount of US$500,000
for the establishment and operation of the Office de Promotion
de l'Entreprise Nigerienne (OPEN) to assist small and medium-
scale Nigerien entrepreneurs;
(c)  financial and technical assistance for a total of US$800,000 to
the Artisans Center of the National Museum to increase artistic
artisan employment and productivity while building up an export
market.
BDRN
39.       US$3.25 million of the proceeds of the credit would be on-lent to
BDRN to provide medium- and long-term financing for fixed investment and
permanent working capital in sound small- and medium-scale labor-intensive
projects. At least forty percent of the line of credit will be reserved for
projects having an investment cost per job of US$5,000 or less. Such proj-
ects are expected to assist small-scale enterprises; however, as the primary
objective of this criterion is employment creation, larger enterprises which
satisfy the cost-per-job requirement will be eligible for assistance under
this segment. Projects which exceed the cost per job limit of $5,000 will
be eligible for financing under the balance of this line of credit (Schedule
of the Project Agreement). Such projects are expected to assist medium size
enterprises, with a target size below CFAF 300 million in fixed assets and a
target ceiling on cost per job created at $15,000. It is expected that the
Association's review of subloans, the establishment of appraisal criteria
and the availability of an engineering advisor will encourage significant
reductions in the capital intensity of typical BDRN projects.
40.       BDRN will be authorized to finance up to 90 percent of the total
cost of projects financed under the small-scale segment of the line of credit;
the Association will refinance the entire amount of such loans, including
local costs which are expected to represent about 22 percent of the financ-
ing. For the projects above the US$5,000 per job ceiling, BDRN will be
authorized to finance up to 75 percent of total project costs; the Associa-
tion will refinance total direct and indirect foreign exchange costs (esti-
mated to be 70 percent of project cost) up to the amount of BDRN's loan.
The terms of BDRN's subloans will be flexible with a maximum of 15 years and
a minimum of 3 years; terms are expected to average 7 years with 2 years of
grace. The on-lending rate for medium-scale loans will be 11 percent (Sched-
ule of the Project Agreement). For small-scale loans subject to the Central



- 12 -
Bank's ceiling of 8.5 percent on final interest rates, BDRN will be compen-
sated for the 2.5 percent difference in final lending rates by a Government
interest subsidy (see para. 25). A free limit will apply to all projects
under US$100,000 financed under the small-scale segment of the line of credit,
after the first five such projects have been approved, up to an aggregate
amount of US$750,000 (Section 2.02(b) of the Credit Agreement). BDRN's ratio
of long-term debt to equity will be limited to 3.5:1 (Section 3.03 of the
Project Agreement).
41.       Based on the present pipeline and past lending patterns, the line
of credit should assist at least 40 projects, including 35 small-scale at
an expected average size of $42,400 and 5 medium-scale at an average size
of $557,000. Total cost of the 35 small-scale sub-projects is expected
to reach $1.5 million of which 87 percent would represent the Association's
financing through BDRN; 13 percent being the entrepreneur's contribution.
The 5 medium-scale subprojects would represent a total investment of $2.8
million. 70 percent would be financed under the Association's line of credit
through BDRN; 5 percent by BDRN from its own resources and 25 percent by
entrepreneur's contributions.
42.       A total of four man-years of technical assistance have been provided
to BDRN to finance an economist/financial analyst for the Development Depart-
ment and senior adviser to the Department's Director. BDRN would also share
the engineering advisor to be financed for OPEN. Appointment of these technical
advisors will be required within six months of credit signing (Section 2.09
of the Project Agreement). Funds have also been allocated in the credit to
finance various training programs for BDRN, including 24 student-years in the
Bank Management Program to be established by ENA (Section 3.09 of Development
Credit Agreement).
43.       The funds would be on-lent to BDRN by the Government at the standard
World Bank lending rate and a term of 15 years and 3 years of grace. The amor-
tization of the BDRN line of credit would be in equal, semi-annual payments of
principal and interest. The Bank's standard commitment fee of 3/4 of 1 per-
cent would apply. The foreign exchange risk on the credit to BDRN would be
assumed by the Government for a fee of 0.5 percent, to be passed on to BDRN's
clients in addition to interest charges. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between BDRN and the Government specifying these on-lending conditions
will be a condition of effectiveness of this Credit (Section 5.01 of the
Credit Agreement).
Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA)
44.       The Nigerien Association of Banks, led by BDRN, has proposed the
establishment of a banking management specialization within the new management
program being developed at the ENA, a UNDP-founded institution. ENA is the
only institution in Niger offering training in finance or administration.
US$100,000 of the proceeds of the IDA credit therefore will be used by Govern-
ment to finance three to four months of short-term consultancy to design, and



- 13 -
one man-year for a senior faculty member to direct, the proposed bank man-
agement specialization at ENA. Formal agreement to establish this program
by the Ministry of Public Service will be a condition of disbursement of
this component. (Schedule 1, para. 4, of the Credit Agreement).
Support for the Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise Nigerienne (OPEN)
45.       A total of $500,000 is to be allocated from the credit to help
establish, in cooperation with UNDP, an Office de Promotion de l'Enterprise
Nigerienne (OPEN).  This office will (i) promote new enterprises and invest-
ments through project identification, entrepreneur development and project
packaging; (ii) provide technical assistance to both new and ongoing enter-
prises; (iii) study and prepare projects for Bank financing; (iv) provide or
sponsor training in management, basic business skills and technical skills in
cooperation with BDRN. OPEN will also be responsible for administration of
proposed guarantee and equity participation funds, in cooperation with BDRN.
Common evaluation standards and procedures will be developed between OPEN and
BDRN's Development Department to ensure coordinated project development. The
Director of BDRN will become a member of OPEN's Board and Management Committee,
both to be chaired by the Minister of Economic Affairs, Industry and Commerce.
46.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Fifteen man-years of technical
assistance for five expatriate advisors would be financed under this project:
twelve man-years for a UNDP Program to be executed by UNIDO at an estimated
cost of US$1.1 million, and three man-years, for the senior advisor, to be
financed from the proposed IDA credit, at an estimated cost of $250,000. The
senior advisor would be responsible for advising the Director of OPEN on all
aspects of the agency's development and operations, including project prep-
aration and appraisal procedures in cooperation with BDRN, the development of
technical assistance and training services and the administration of common
services programs. The UNDP-financed advisors would include an engineer (to
be shared with BDRN), a project economist and a financial analyst, both to
advise on project studies and technical assistance, and a training advisor.
All advisors will be required to train Nigerien counterparts. $70,000 is to
be allocated from the credit to finance a program of 12 seminars for Nigerien
entrepreneurs and managers in management and business skills.
47.       Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles and Installation Costs.  The Associa-
tion's credit will finance the offices and housing for the five advisors and
the purchase and maintenance of four vehicles for the OPEN, up to a total
cost of $180,000 including local costs and contingencies, of which $40,000
represents a contribution to recurrent costs for the three year project
period.
48.       Terms and Conditions.  The Nigerien Government will provide the
balance of the local operating costs of OPEN for three years, including the
provision of local staff, for a total cost of $650,000. The draft statutes
establishing OPEN have been discussed with the Association. Confirmation of
a global financing plan, including UNDP participation, for the OPEN is a con-
dition of disbursement of this component (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the Credit



- 14 -
Agreement. Appointment of technical advisors and their counterparts, includ-
ing a qualified Nigerien Director for the OPEN, are required within six months
of the signature of the credit (Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement).
The Artisan Center
49.       US$800,000 of the proceeds of the credit would benefit the Artisan
Center of the National Museum. Within the Artisan Center, new training, pro-
duction, raw material purchasing and marketing sections will be established,
and commercial services will be reorganized and modernized. Regional centers
will be established in Agadez, Zinder and Maradi to supplement the Center's
services in Niamey.
50.       The Association's credit will finance the construction of training,
workshop and warehouse centers and provision of equipment and vehicles for all
the centers, up to a total of US$440,000 including local costs.
51.       US$100,000 of the IDA credit will be allocated to finance the
establishment by the Artisan Center of a permanent revolving credit-in-kind
fund which would supply raw materials through bulk purchase as well as small
equipment and other supplies to artisans affiliated with the Center. The per-
manent revolving fund will be managed by the Artisan Center and collection
of credit-in-kind will be facilitated by the fact that the Center will also
be responsible for marketing. The average loan size is expected to be US$2,500
and loans would range from a few dollars (working capital) to a maximum of
US$10,000 for artisanal cooperatives and US$2,000 for individual artisans
to finance small equipment. Credit terms will be flexible depending on the
nature of investment, with grace periods from 6 months to 18 months and terms
ranging from 2 years to 8 years with an interest rate of 8.5 percent, in con-
formity with BCEAO guidelines on credit to small scale enterprise (Section
3.10 of Credit Agreement). The average term is expected to be 3 years with
12 months of grace.
52.       A total of seven man-years of full-time technical assistance and six
man-months of short-term assistance in marketing and design would be provided
to the Artisan Center with an allocation of US$260,000 from the IDA credit.
Two man-years are provided for a senior adviser to the Artisan Center Director.
Three man-years of assistance are provided for two experienced leatherworkers
to supervise production and another two man-years for a training supervisor.
Since coordination between production and marketing is essential to the suc-
cess of this venture, these services and assistance should be combined into
one contract, to be recruited on terms and conditions acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. The firm selected should be required to commit itself to the pur-
chase, at mutually agreed terms, of a substantal share of the items produced
with its technical assistance.
53.       Appointment of a qualified Nigerien Director for the Artisan Center
and of the technical advisors and their counterparts is required within six
months of credit signing (Section 3.03 of Draft Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
54.       Forecasts of Artisan Center operation based on available market data
indicate that within the proposed project 370 additional artisans may be sup-
ported by the Artisan Center at investment per job created of about US$1,500.
By 1982, the Center is expected to become a self-sustaining commercial opera-
tion.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       Total project costs are estimated to be US$8.1 million including
US$0.15 million in taxes to be paid by BDRN, entrepreneurs and other local
sources. The foreign cost component would be US$5.4 million or 68 percent
of net project costs. The Bank Group's share in project financing would be
US$5.0 million or 63 percent of the net project cost, covering US$4.3 million
of the foreign cost component as well as US$700,000 toward local costs. For
the credit components, local entrepreneurs and artisans and BDRN would con-
tribute to local costs and pay taxes. For the technical assistance compo-
nents, the Government and BDRN would meet the balance of local costs not
covered by the IDA credit and UNDP would provide US$1.1 million of the for-
eign costs not covered by the credit. The Government's total contribution
to local costs will amount to US$870,000 for recurrent costs (US$320,000
annually for two years and about US$230,000 in year 3) for the artisans
component OPEN and ENA.
56.       The Association's contribution toward local costs of US$700,000 would
include US$280,000 for BDRN loans to small-scale sub-borrowers, US$50,000 for
credit-in-kind to artisans, US$210,000 for construction, equipment and vehicles
for the Artisan Center, $85,000 for furniture, equipment, and installation
costs for OPEN and US$75,000 to support BDRN participation in ENA's Bank
Management Program and other training. The balance of the local costs of the
project including taxes will be provided by Government, BDRN, local entrepre-
neurs, artisans and other local sources.
57.       Provision has been made for Association financing of a total of 15
man-years for full-time advisors (BDRN, 4 man-years; ENA, 1 man-year; Artisan
Center, 7 man-years; OPEN, 3 man-years) and UNDP financing of 12 man-years
for full-time advisors. 9 man-months of short-term advisors for the ENA
program and for artisan work marketing is also included. The average foreign
cost of advisers and consultants is expected to be equivalent to US$3,000 per
man-month for the artisans component and US$6,000 per man-month for BDRN and
ENA. The low costs per man-month indicate, in the former case, the limited
qualifications required for artisan advisors and, in the latter case, BDRN's
experience with consultants.
Monitoring
58.       BDRN, OPEN and the Artisan Center would be required to submit to
IDA regular operational and financial reports. For BDRN, these requirements
cover normal DFC information. The Artisan Center would be required to send
quarterly operation statements and financial statements starting January 1979.
OPEN would submit semi-annual statements describing its promoton, technical
assistance and project preparation activities and the operations of the
guarantee and equity funds.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       The purchase of equipment and goods under the project is not suit-
able for international competitive bidding, given the small size and the
nature of most of the sub-projects to be financed and goods to be procured.
The Artisan Center, ENA, OPEN and BDRN will follow local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Association.  BDRN would follow regular
DFC procedures for disbursement. To simplify management of the credit-in-kind
fund, monthly claims would be submitted for reimbursement of funds advanced by
the Artisan Center. The Center will retain detailed documentation on credits
allocated to artisans for review by the Association during supervision mis-
sions.
60.       The non-credit proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or equivalent remuneration
for expert services ($875,000);
(b) 100 percent of foreign or local expenditures for equipment,
vehicles and construction for the Artisan Center ($440,000);
(c) 100 percent of the costs of training programs for BDRN staff
($85,000) and for OPEN ($70,000);
(d) 100 percent of the costs of furniture, equipment, vehicles and
installation for OPEN ($180,000).
Disbursements will be fully documented.
Benefits and Justification
61.       The long-run potential for the development of Niger's industrial
sector, while modest, seems reasonably hopeful, given the stimuli of an
improving domestic economy, growing investment surpluses from uranium pro-
duction and the expanding trade with Nigeria.  The primary purpose of the
proposed project is to assist Government in focusing this development on
creation of employment opportunities for the growing numbers of urban unem-
ployed by improving Government's industrial policies, by assisting in the
establishment of OPEN and by strengthening BDRN.  By upgrading BDRN's staff
quality and capability, improving internal organization and financial control,
project appraisal and other operational policies, the project would contribute
to better designed, more efficient and more viable projects with increased
labor intensity. The promotion of small enterprise and artisan development
through OPEN will encourage expansion of the most labor intensive segment of
Niger's industrial sector. The proposed line of credit is expected to create
employment for more than 500 persons at an average cost per job of about
US$6,000, which represents an improvement in the capital efficiency of Niger's
industrial sector. By encouraging Niger's small entrepreneurs, through im-
proved access to financing and technical assistance, the project will provide
a sound basis for future expansion of the sector and thus increase the poten-
tial for project replicability.



- 17 -
62.       By strengthening the Artisan Center at the Museum, artisan employ-
ment and productivity will increase, helping the poorer segments of the urban
population. The development of regional centers will extend this assistance
to less developed urban areas. The proposed assistance to the Artisan Center
will create employment for 370 persons, at an average cost of about US$1,500.
The economic rate of return on this component is expected to exceed 30 percent.
Assuming that Artisan Center products can maintain quality and cost standards,
and that external markets expand as suggested in preliminary market tests,
still further increases in artisan employment and development of additional
regional centers should be possible in successive projects. Such expansion of
employment should be possible without further external technical assistance,
as Nigeriens will be trained in this project to assume all the functions of
the proposed foreign advisors.
Risks
63.       Given the historical capital intensity of BDRN projects, there is
some risk that BDRN would encounter difficulty in identifying a sufficient
number of projects having acceptable labor intensity for the IDA credit. For
this reason, an engineering advisor will be provided under the project to
encourage more efficient and labor-intensive project design. There would be
some risk that the employment creation target in the artisans component might
not be achieved if the export market does not develop sufficiently quickly to
support the added employment or if the needed improvements in product finish-
ing and quality are not realized rapidly and consistently. Market and product
studies suggest that present targets are realistic. However, to minimize this
risk, the firm providing technical and marketing assistance to the artisans
would also guarantee the purchase of a reasonable quantity of products pro-
duced to its specifications.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Niger
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the Banque du Developpement de la Republique du Niger (BDRN) and the recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. An additional condition of effectiveness is the
entering into of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (Section 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement). Conditions of disbursement include authorization of ENA's bank-
ing management program (para 4, Schedule 1, Credit Agreement) and agreement
on OPEN's financing plan (para 4, Schedule 1, Credit Agreement).
65.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of special
interest are listed in section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 23, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
hIGER                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA trHOU KK2)                                                - - - --------- -- --------------
NIGER                     ,                                 (1970)
TOTAL     1267.0                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     180.0                         1960       1970   ESTIMATE           MALAWI            DPIRE        SENEGAL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       80.0*    100.0*    160.0/a*               70.0*      170.0       270.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              3.1       4.0         4.7/a               4.5         1.6         4.4
POPULA1.ON DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                         2.0        3.0        4.0 /a             38.0          3.0        22.0
PeR SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         17.0       22.0       26.0I  100.0                     27.0        5S.O
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)          52.4       52.3       52.2                49.3         45.4        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           29.4       25.7       25.5                 28.1        26.4        24.4
INFANF MORTALITY RATE t/THOU)        200.0                 162.0 lb                .
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        35.9       38.5       38.5                38.5         39.0        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1        3.5        3.5                  3.2         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CX)
TOT1L                                  2.5        2.8        2.6                 2.6          2.2         2.6
URBAN                                  4.5        6.3        S.5                  5.0         7.2         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)             4.8       8.2         9.4                 5.8        30.1        29.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        43.8       44.5       43.0                43.9         42.1        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                        53.0       52.6       52.2/c              52.1         54.8        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVCR                      3.2        2.9         4.87W              4.0          3.1         3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.9         0.9                 0.9         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.9 /a     I.0/a       ..                 1.1/a       0.9/a       1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)             ..        ..          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        ..          ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)           770.0 /b 1900.0           ..             1900.0        820.o      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          97.0 7E   91.0           ..               89.0         91.0        73.0
UNEMPLOYED 1% OF LABOP FORCE)              ..         ..         ..                  ..          ...
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                  -
% OF PRIVAiE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             23.0          ..         .                29.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             42.0          ..        ..                52.9
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.0               ..                      5.7
LONEST  40S Of HOUSEHOLDS             15.0                    *-                15.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         ..         ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS             ..         ..         ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATlON PER PHYSICIAN             71000.0/C 58260.0   41060.0               75250.0   38330.0       16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         7500.0 7   7040.0    4970.0                    ..     1280.0/b   2610.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSelTAL BED           18B0.0 7   2230.0    1790-0/d              640.0       460.0(--    810.07 
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          93.0       83.0       78.0                93.0        96.0        91.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               74.0       72.0       74.0                54.0        48.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       24.0/b       ..                 9.0/b      22.0        2.0o/d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..         ..         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         5.0       14.0       17.0                39.0        69.0        43.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       0.3        1.0        2.0                 2.0         5.0        10.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0       13.0       14.0                14.0       10-12        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
C% OF SECONDARY)                       4.0        3.0        2.2                 3.0        12.0         9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  5.0          ..        ..                22.0          ..        10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ..        ..         ..                 1.9 /c
OCCUPIED EDELLINGS WITHoUT
PIPED MATER (X)                         ..         ..         ..                78.0 /c,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DHELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                 6.0 /cd
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECtED
TO ELECTRICITY (S)                      ..         ..         ..
CONSUMPTIV4
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           1.0       36.0         ..                20.0        30.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THou POP)            0.3        1.0        2.0                 2.0         4.0         9.0
ELECTRICI,  (KWH/YR PER CAP)             3.0       10.0       15.0                32.0        29.0        73.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                o.1fd       ..         ..                  ..          ..         a.,
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4s pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1977 andl 1975.
07fNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas Methodology (1974-76 basis).
00Senegal has been selected ds an objeCtive countryr SintO its 1970 CM  is about three tinae, that of Niger, both coutries ame  L. the  an
geographical are&s, have similar production patterns (with the same dtuinsnt crop-groundouta) , share the same monatarp lyatets and have
shoot the sams population.
rIlCiR                1910      Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;    /b~ e.cludes labor force of Nion'ey cd ty,
nomad population and foreigners;          lv  1962;      /d  1964.
1970   /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1964-66.
MOST kECENiT ETITnATE:    /a  1976;    _/b  1972;    /c  Age 15-59 and 60 years and over reapectively;                    Id. 1971.
lIAtAI                1970   /a  Ratio of population under. 15 and 65 and over to total labor forte;                  /b  1964-66;    /c  1967;    /d  Urban only.
CEN7IRAL il-RICAN     1970   Ia  Ratio of populationt under 15 and 65 and ower to total labor force;                 /b  Including midwives and assistant nurses.
EMPIIE
SENEGAL               1970   Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Including aasisatnt nurses;
/c  Govermanast hospital establishments only;    /d  1964-66.
17, December 22, 1977
DM'ITTMO OF SOCIAL INDIrATORI
Land Ar-a (thog '_2                                                                             Population par nursing pecao  - Population divided by nmbar sf practicing
Total - T...al  -of-c  ace  coopristog land area and intand vaer.                                  sI  and f-1.l grd.t.ure,  t-iaind' or  certfifd"  ..rse   .. *d
&gtic. - mont re .ant .catstos     of agricultural araa used temporarily at pacma-                auxsiliary pereoonel with training or a.perianc.a
nea tly for cropapstrs,        narkat & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     population oar hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital baed
available in p.blic and privata gene.ral and sp..tali..d hospital and
CIF per c-pit. (LIS$) - GNP per capita esatinates at current market  pricaa.                       rahabilitatiom canters;...aludas nureing hms  and *stabliahmemta  for
calculat.d by sam  con-eraion ached as World Bank Atias (1973-75 basis);                        cuatodial and Preventio, cars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                     per cspita suriol, of caloriea  (% of re,uiresnta) - Computed fro. onergy
eqQivalent of oat fund aupplias availabla in country par capita per day;
Popalati-r and vital ettiotic,                                                                     available supplies caprisa  dansa tic productima, imports less seports , and
Ponato. dd-veer niIllo,)   Ae of July first:  if nor available, average                     chaccga in etock; net supplies e-clud  anLIm  feed, .aads, quantities usad
of two cad-year eatimates; 1 60, 1970 end 1975 date.                                            in food processing end losses. in distribution; r-quiremeant  "rer  esCimated
by FAO based on physiological asad for normal .cttviry and health consld-
Populatica density -per aq,are lke - Mid.-ye.r population per agnear  kilometer                   gri"og eviroatal tomparstur, hody waighta, aga  nd sac discriburiama of
(110 hectares) of total ar.a,                                                                   population, and allwaiog 101 for ..acte at hosehbold lavel.
Populatioe dens,ity   p ar socare ho of  pric, land - CoepatwA as above for                     Par capita supply. of protain  (irame per day) - Protein content of pet capita
ag:ricultural loand only.                                                                        net supply of food per d,,y; set aupply of food i-s defined aSo above; require-
manta for aLl  omntri.. ae-eblihbad by inlis teonMiC gaa.earch Servicse
VIta   tatiatics                                                                                 prowide for a m.inimum allowance of 60 gros of total protein par day, and
Cr,le birth rate per thous..d.  -vr.go - Annual live births per thounand of                        20 growe of animal and pulsa protein, of which 10 gress sheuld he a.einaI
mid-year  .poplation; teo-y-e  aritimotlc averae  sdiag in 1960 and 1970,                       protein; these standards arm basr then chsos  of 75 gr-  of total p-ecels
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimsate.                                 end 23 groma of animal protein as an average for the a,rld, propassd by FhO
Crudaddeath rate ner hiad  average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                        in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ton-yearoraiaacnevrgseding in 1960 and 1970 and gite-                             par capita Protain -tpply fro  animal .ad Po1se - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for mos t recant estImate,                                          derived from  animals and pulses in gress Per day.
loftat mots.lity rate (/tho.)- Annual deaths of infants under ome year of age                   Death rate (/thou( agtes 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per rhoo sad livo  birth..                                                                      yea.rs, to children in this age group; assgea ted as an indicator of
Life ..pectancy at birth (v-cs)   Average wmbser of years of life rameainitng at                   malnutrition.
birth; usualIly ftre-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 sad 1975 for develop-
iog cotuntries.                                                                               Educationt
Groes reprud.ction rate - Average number of live daughters a woan will bear                      Adjusted enrollmett ratio -. primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her nornal reprod.ctive period if she experiences present age-specific                       centage of primary school-age population; Includes childeam  agd 6-11I.y."
fertility rates; usually five.yer averagee ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                        but adjusted for difierant lengths of primar-y *ducatic,,; ferc outncils  with
for davalopig countries,                                                                        universal education, enrollment may exceedl I00% since soe  pupils are belowe
Population Krowth rate (',) - total - Compound annvual growth rectm  of mid-year                   or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Adiusted enroll:sent ratio - secondary school - Computed as above, secondary
fc,n.istoa  rcwtho rate (7TI - orbon - COMputad like growth rate of total                          education requirea at least four years of apprcovd primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                    providaa general, vocational or teacher training inarcceionn  for Pupils
data among countries,t.                                                                        ,of 12 toc 17 year  ofs; correspondence courses am  general1y excluded.
Urban PoPoletioa fT of toa) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                     yaso   nol    provided  fift-t sad second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban  rasmay, affect comparabIlity of data asong countriae.                     schooling; at asecondary leveL, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely eoacluded.
AMss etr--.r foerceota  - Children (0-14 years) , woring-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational enrollae.t (. Of  -ecodary) - Vaoccioasli nstitutions  Inoclude
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year popualation.                          technIcal, ind" triaL or cther pre5rom  which operate independently or as
Age dcpuod-cy ratito - Ratio of population under 1$ and 65 and over to those                       deprtmanto of secondary institutiona.
of aces 15 throu.gh b6a.                                                                      Adult Liesrrc   7)-iteret. adults (able to read and writ.) as per-
Economic dpnec   ai  - Rtito of population under IS and 65 and over to                             cantage of total adult Population *gad 15 years end ovr.
the labor force in age group ef 15-64 yesrs.
Family DInin     acptr   Cumulative. thou) - OCumalative matmber of acceptors                   Rousing
of birth-acnrol devices under auspices of national family Planning Program                   Persons per none  urban) - Average n,ber of permsona pr room In occopiad
since inception.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~conventional dwellings in urban areas; dvsllinge exclude non-pemanent
Fami1y pl-aning -useers (1 of1 narled woo)-Percentages of married wcamo of                         structures and unoccupied parts.
child-hearing age (15-i-  years) who use birth-control devices to Sll macrind                 occupied dwllingts without Piped -aster ('1  - Occupied coe-ntioalI dwelin.gs
women in  am age group,                                                                          in urban and ruraL areas without inside or outside  Lpipd waeer facilittas
as percentage of all occupied d..1Liga.
tEployant                                                                                        Acceas to elcrct    lo   l   wlig)-Conventional dwellings with
Total labor forte (thousand) - Economaically active perec,as, including aimed                      electricity in living quarters at percent of total dwellings in urban ..d
forces and acapne   ut excluding housewives, atoadente, etc. ; definitions                      rural areas..
in various cootrice ame not coaperbla.                                                        Rocal dwellings connected to electricity  CZ) - Computetd as abae, for rural
Labor forte in agriculture Cl) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                   dwellinsg  only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unopl,yedfl.of abo  fote)- fnewployed are usually defined So pre-n  wha                 Consunotion
aaable Sod willing to take a )ah, out of a job on a given day, remainad out                 Radio receivers (cr thou pop) - All types of receiver  for radio broad..asts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not  -exeding one                      to general public per thousand of population; extLu-as unlicensed receivers
week; may nor be comparable hetwen counErian dos to different definitlons,                       In countries -and to years when regiac-ation of redio acn  .ea In affect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office stetistica, #mple                      data far recent years may not he comparable since most countciea, abolished
son-wys, compulesory unaployment insurance,                                                      licens ing.
- Prceet.e. of p                                        r~~~~~~~~assencr care  prto   on       asne  cars rompriae motor tars ..atiag
Inic-m  distribution  -  eretae  fprvte incoms  (both in. cah and kind)                            less than eight pesn;    ldes amhuL.acce., hear... ..nd military
received by richest 5ST, richest 201, poorest 207., and poorest 401 of house-                    vahicles.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity_(kwhtyr_er cap)_ - Annual consmption of tndustrial. tousereial.
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distributive of land owership -Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 101                         band on production d.ta, witheuc allowance Isr Isses in grids hut allo-
,atd poursat 101 of land owners.                                                                  ing for importe and .opocca of  L-scri.ity.
ISeweprint 1kgt/yr Per cap) - Per capita aonnas consumeption in kilograms
health and N.trition                                                                             astimated from domestic production plus nca  impacts of  -owprit -
j2ZjcL!gRo t.rphrlc    - PopulatIon divided by n,ber of practicing
phy.ti-io   quaLified from. wa mdlcI ehool at university leve.t



ANhEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976: Us$160
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 *                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7. CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ Million      .                            1960-1973              1973-1975
GNP at Market Prices                 639.4       100.0
Gross Domestic Investment            118.5        18.6
Gross National Savings                43.4         6.8
Current Account Balance              -85.1       -13.3
Exports of Goods, NFS                167.8        26.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                226.5        35.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million     %
Agriculture                   281.3        47.1
Mining                         28.0         4.7
Industry                      84.1         14.1
Services                     204.2         34.1
Total                         597.6       100.0
ODVEFRNMENT FINANCE
Ceneral Government
(CFAF billion)               . of GDP
1975/76   1976/77         1975/76  1976/77
Current Revenues (a)             25.7 (4.5) 32.2 (8.0)        18.7      19.0
Current Expenditurc.             20.0       23.9              14.6      14.1
Current Balance                  +3-7       +8F 3T 4 i                   4 
Capital Expenditure              -4.0      -10.3               2.9       6.1
External Assistance               1.5         0.0              1.1
pverall Balance                  +3. 2       -2 0              2.3       1.2
MMNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1971     1972      1973      1974      1975     1976
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money               12.1      12.9     15.5      20.3      22.3      29.2
Bank credit to Public Sector        -2.3      -3.5     -3.4      -7.2    -11.5    -12.3
Bank credit to Private Sector        9.7      10.7     12.5      21.0      28.5      28.6
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 104.2    114.4    127.8    132.1    144.1    178.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                  *         9.8     11.7       3.4       9.1     23.6
Bank credit to Public Sector
Bank credit to Private Sector                 10.3     16.8      68.0      35.7      0.4
* Staff estimates
Not available
Not applicable
(a) - revenue from uranium mining.                                                                     December 21, 1977



ANNtX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
-    (in millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         -    _    197         1974*         1975*             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS    (1975-76)
Exports of Goods, NFS                128.3        111.0         167.8                              USS Million         %
Imports of Goods, NFS                168 8        221.4        226_1
Resource Gap (deficit = _)           -40.5       -110.4        -58.7              Livestock             28.4          21.7
Uranium              76.0          58.0
Interest Payments (net)               -3.7         -8.3        -10.7              Groundnuts            9.1            7.0
Workers' Remittances                 -16.3        -17.9        -18.7              All other             17.4          13.3
Other Factor Payments (net)            4.1          3.2           3.0               Total              130.9         100.0
Net Transfers
Balance on Current Accounts          -56.4       -133.4        -85.1              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Direct Foreign Investment (net)        0.8          6.9          15.8             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         231.7
Official Capital Grants               81.4        119.8          77.1             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net MLT Borrowings                     9.6          10.5         17.0             Total outstanding and disbursed    122.6
Disbursements                   (10.3)       (10.6)       (18.8)            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976
Repayment                        (0.7)        (0.1)        (1.8)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Other items l/                       -31.3        -10.5        -19.8              Non-Cuaranteed Private Debt
Change in Reserves (end year)          4.1         -6.7           5.0             Total outstanding and disbursed         5.8%
Foreign Reserves (end year)           53.5         44.3         51.4
Fuel and Related Materials                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING. OCTOBER 31. 1977
Imports:                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed              26.8
Undisbursed                            28.4
of which:  Petroleum              6.6         13.1         12.8             Outstanding incl. undisbursed          55 2
Exports:
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1971:    US$1.00 - CFAF  277.03
1972:    US$1.00 - CFAF  252.21
1973:    US$1.00 - CFAF  222.70
1974:    Us$1.00 = CFAF  240.50
1975:    US$1.00 = CFAF  214.32
1976:    US$1.00 a CFAF  245.00
1/  Including errors and omissions.
2/ BCEAO estimates.
*   Staff estimate                                                                         December 21, 1977
Not available
Not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1978)
Credit                                                         US$ million
Number  Year   Borrower                Purpose          Amount (less cancellation)
IDA       Undisbursed
Six credits fully disbursed                               15.0
441    1973    Republic of Niger   Drought Relief          2.0           0.4
473    1974    Republic of Niger   Niamey Airport          5.0           0.4
608    1975    Republic of Niger   Maradi Rural           10.7           8.0
Development
612    1976    Republic of Niger   Niger Third
Highway             15.6          11.7
634    1976    Republic of Niger   Telecommunications
Project              5.2           5.1
Total                                              53.5          25.6
of which has been repaid*
Total now outstanding and held by IDA /1           53.5
Total undisbursed
*$62,396.83 repaid
/L   Prior to exchange adjustment.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1978)
Nil.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 441   Drought Relief Project, US$2.0 Million; Credit of December 7,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
This credit, approved on November 13, 1973, is one of six credits
made to the six Sahelian countries to help the population in drought-affected
areas to re-establish their self-sufficiency through redevelopment and improve-
ment of their farms and herds. The Banque de Developpement de la Republique
du Niger (BDRN) is serving as the intermediary for channeling funds to the
different Government agencies which have responsibility for the execution
of various sub-projects. This project is nearing satisfactory completion.
Out of the seven sub-projects, five (training scheme, construction of rural
warehouses, spot repairs of a feeder road, engineering studies of an irriga-
tion project and construction of erosion control facilities) are completed;
one (protection of gum tree natural groves) is nearly completed and one
(construction and operation of calf feeding units) has now begun following
delays due to water supply problems. However, the number of these units was
reduced from six to two because of substantial cost overruns resulting from
increases in the prices of materials and cattle and necessary changes in
construction design.
Credit 473   Niamey Airport Project; US$5.0 Million; Credit of May 24, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
This credit provides for improvement to existing facilities so as
to enable modern, large body aircraft to operate safely and economically to
and from Niamey airport, including strengthening and lengthening the runway,
strengthening the taxiway, enlarging and strengthening the aircraft parking
apron as well as the upgrading and relocation of the Instrument Landing
System. The project as originally defined is completed and the airport is
fully operational; final disbursement is expected by end of May 1978 following
delivery of distance measuring equipment (DME).
Credit 608   Maradi Rural Development Project; US$10.7 Million; Credit of
February 6, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 8, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides production packages for the improvement of
the productivity of major crops, including groundnuts and millet, in areas
covered by 15 selected "Associations Locales de Cooperatives"; it aims to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3 pages
strengthen these cooperative institutions, expand educational and training
programs, to develop irrigation potential in the Goulbi de Maradi; to con-
struct one road, to improve livestock services, to increase productivity
of fuel wood plantations and to establish a project education unit. Having
overcome initial delays in implementation due mainly to a shortage of qual-
ified local staff, the project has, in the past year, made considerable
progress. Staffing is virtually complete, and buildings have been constructed.
Preliminary results from the last mission indicate that due to poor rainfall,
production varied greatly between districts. Emphasis is therefore being
placed on implementation in order to ensure a well-balanced agricultural
development program.
Credit 612   Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims at assisting Government with the implementation
of a four-year program of periodic maintenance, including procurement of
equipment and training of specialized public work staff, construction and
improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian
border road (40 km). The project became effective only on January 31, 1977
due to delays in signature and effectiveness of the co-financiers' loan agree-
ment, and implementation is about one year behind schedule. The contract for
technical assistance and training was signed by Government in November 1977
and will be effective shortly. Bids for road maintenance equipment were
called and should have been received by mid-March 1978. The contract for the
study of the domestic construction industry will be signed shortly. Comple-
tion of the construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border road was expected by
end of February and that of Zinder-Nigerian bprder road by March 1979.
Credit 634   Telecommunications Project:  US$5.2 Million; Credit of June 11,
1976; Effectiveness Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project includes installation of automatic switching equipment
with cable and subscriber distribution networks; provision of trunk switching
equipment, three BHF links and one HF radio link, overhead line and carrier
equipment; civil works, miscellaneous equipment, vehicles and tools and
services of engineering and financial consultants. Project implementation
started in January 1977, about six months behind scheduled. ICB is now
progressing satisfactorily. Bidding documents have been approved by IDA
and bids opening is expected in May 1968. Improvements in accounting systems
and procedures, which have been worked out by financial consultants, should be
implemented during 1978. Auditors have not yet been appointed.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 9 months
(b) Agencies that prepared the project: BDRN, the National Museum
of Niger
(c) Date of the first presentation to the Bank: February, 1977
Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project:
February 1977
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: November 12, 1978
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations: April 22, 1978
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: 90 days following credit signing.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Frequent supervision (every 6 months) missions are planned for at
least the first year.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government will subsidize BDRN's financing for enterprises
falling under BCEAO's interest rate ceiling for small scale
enterprises (para. 25).
(b) BDRN will have its accounts audited annually by a firm accept-
able to the Association (para. 29).
(c) No more than 60 percent of the line of credit to BDRN will be
committed to projects having a cost per job in excess of $5,000
(para. 39).
(d)  Government will assume the foreign exchange risk on the line
of credit to BDRN (para. 43).
(e)  The Government confirmed that all expenditures financed under
BDRN's line of credit will be exempt from all taxes on goods and
services to assure to small enterprises and artisans benefits
equivalent to these offered larger enterprises by the investment
codes (para. 24).
(f) The Government has confirmed that BDRN will have adequate
resources to cover its State Credits portfolio (para. 32).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(g)  The Government will maintain budgetary support to the OPEN, the
Artisan Center and ENA to permit them to maintain the operations
(para. 55).
(h)  BDRN's ratio of long-term debt to equity will be limited to
3.5:1 (para. 40).
(i)  Prior to disbursement of funds for ENA, the Bank management
program will be formally authorized (para. 44).
(j)  Prior to disbursement of the funds for OPEN, the global finan-
cing plan, will be confirmed (para. 48).
(k)  Within six months of credit signing a qualified Nigerien
Director of the Artisan Center, a qualified Nigerien Director
for the OPEN, technical advisors acceptable to the Association
and Nigerien counterparts for all components shall be appointed
(paras. 42, 48, 53).
(1)  A condition of effectiveness will be the signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BDRN
(para. 43).



.FORESTRY .E PROJECT -
O AGADEZ
-,~ ~~~ -- Wi ,, , ,,I
TAHOUA(
/  ------------OZINDEWR  -JLJFF  ..~N
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DF
~.DOSSO f.*2
800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
Li P P E R                      ha                                                                        1
V  OLTA                      g mm____   the le_at_sta tu of
0    ,0            > ?/          tfl ort( Bt Slsb (-   thf yoF wedw   fr . t_ _ '     
1 N - 3*1ttit6htetEf-  @                                  A                    .                       -  ,tRA       N 



