CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 809 NIR
Project Agreement
(Employment Creation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
Dated June 7, 1978


﻿CREDIT NO. 809 NIR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1978, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinafter called
BDRN), a company established and operating under the laws of the
Republic of Niger (hereinafter called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower, for relending in part to
BDRN, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BDRN
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BDRN, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BDRN
Section 2.01. (a) BDRN shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and
conduct its operations and affairs, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial and


﻿-2-
investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with its Statutes and By-laws and
with the lending policies and procedures set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
(b) BDRN shall provide, promptly as needed, all funds,
facilities and resources necessary to carry out Part A.2 of the
Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BDRN shall furnish
to the Association proposals for Investment Projects for approval
or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit
Account.
(b) (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, BDRN
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satis-
factory to the Association, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed
thereunder (including a description of the expenditures for
such Investment Project proposed to be financed by BDRN and an
appraisal of the Investment Project) and the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayLent to the Borrower
of the amount to be used for the Investment, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request; and (ii)
such appraisals will include a calculation of the fixed invest-
ment per job created, economic benefits and the internal finan-
cial rate of return and, in cases of import substitution, an
evaluation of the economic rate of return, established in accor-
dance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by BDRN for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval


﻿-3-
by the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization
by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in
respect of such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and BDRN shall otherwise
agree, BDRN shall submit applications for approval of Investment
Projects purs,;).t to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this
Section and req    s for authorizations to withdraw from the
Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1981.
Section 2.03. (a) BDRN undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be rade
on terms whereby BDRN shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and of BDRN, including, in the case of any
such Sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate
in the case of any such Investment: (i) the right to require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan or Investment be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association
and of BDRN to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right
to require that the Invebtment Enterprise take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice and that, without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Invest-
ment to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the Invest-
ment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right
to obtain all such information as the Association or BDRN shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and (vi) the right of BDRN to suspend or terminate the
right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of


﻿-4-
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its agreement with BDRN.
(b) BDRN shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of BDRN, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BDRN shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and Investments,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Sub-loans and the Investments.
Section 2.05. BDRN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BDRN shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, or amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN shall take all action necessary to maintain
its corporate existence and right to carry on operations and
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.07. BDRN shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BDRN under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. BDRN shall not amend its By-laws in any mate-
rial way except in agreement with the Association and shall
exchange views with the Association on any proposal to modify its
Statutes.
Section 2.09. In order to assist BDRN in carrying out Parts
A.2 and A.3 of the Project, BDRN shall employ within six months
of the date of this Agreement a senior advisor to the Director
of its Development Department and an economic advisor for such
Department, each qualified and experienced and employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, as well as
a Nigerien counterpart to such economic advisor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BDRN shall maintain record adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BDRN and shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. BDRN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of BDRN and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN shall not incur or permit any Subsidiary
to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
consolidated debt of BDRN and all its Subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed three and one-half times the consoli-
dated capital and surplus of BDRN and all its Subsidiaries. For
the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by BDRN or
any Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date or which
it is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
BDRN or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to
be incurred (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date
and to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the


﻿-6-
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of CFA Francs debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable in Niger for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of BDRN and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of BDRN and all its
Subsidiaries excluding (i) debt owed by BDRN to any Subsidiary or
by any Subsidiary to BDRN or to any other Subsidiary and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of BDRN
and all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of BDRN
and of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts
as shall represent equity interests of BDRN in any Subsidiary, or
of any such Subsidiary in BDRN or in any other Subsidiary and (ii)
such amount of any loan which the Association may determine to be
included in the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Extept as the Association and BDRN shall
otherwise agree, BDRN shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than deposits)
having an original term exceeding one year.
Section 3.05. BDRN shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including CFA Francs) used in its borrow-
ing and lending operations.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and BDRN shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished. To that end, the Association and BDRN shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the


﻿'7
þëtftttie by         ftlIg of its oblig  tig titder this Agtettiet and
the SUbatldlåty Lödn Agrteednëtit, the  id hl tnh, nobiatiinus änd
ti   aI1titål tdti h  of  URN åtid other tftttets teltting tn the
hUt00,4 df the CUedit.
(b) Mjto 'h0d11 fttu-ittsh to the Asaoriation alt cirh finfontin
t fötåt the Asoidtiott shal reå-iötiåbl   reque,t rottretnrtig the
ddi1tåtkttotintp, c etastia änd finarial rnditiotn of ~0N änd ftn
subsidiåtes, if ätty.
Sect1ott 4. 02. 9~kN mhtll prnptlyl tiform the A  ociatiton of
åtty cottdition whIch 1titetferes with, or threäterm tn itrfere
With, the acertdpI1ishtenttt- of the purposes of the Crvdlt or the
Potföttötice by 90RN of its thitgatinu  uidet this Agreeentt  nr the
SubjidIdty Lon Agreetettt.
Sectfoti 4.(). BURN shall etble the Ansocintion's reptpsn
tattves to Itspect the rerötds referred t-n Itt Section 3.01 of thli
Agtëeofltt åttd åtly teltevanit docnr(tq.
ARtiCLV v
ttfective båte; Termibåtiori
Cåttcellttion and Suspelslof
Section 5.01. This Agreetmentt shall cotue into force and
eftect ot the date upon whIch the tevelopmfent Credit Agreetnent
becomes effective.
8ctlont 5.02. (a) this Agreemett and all obitgattons of
the Aociattiou atid of 13ORN thereunider shall termtinate or the
ëåtliet of the föllowitig two datedå
(1)  the date ob which the Developmtent Credit Agreement
shäll terttidtatë; or
(ii) a date ëIghtetnt years after the date of this
Agreemht.
(b) if the hevéloppieit Ctedit Agteediett tetmitates before
the däte specifiëd Ii paragtaph (å) (ii) of this Section, the
Assocatiöt sháål tolptiy notify ffRN of this event, atd upon the
gIVtg of Euch botice, tids Agtetëient ad all obligations of the
þatties theteundet shall förthwtth tertmidate.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement, or by BDRN on behalf of
the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, or under
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement,
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or
by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram.to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    24423  (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For BDRN:
Banque de D&veloppement de la
R&publique du Niger
Boite Postale 227
Niamey
Ripublique du Niger
Cable address:                      Telex:
Boite Postale 227                   5213 NI
Niamey                              SONIBANK


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed by BDRN
under this Agreement, or under Section 2.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement by BDRN on behalf of the Borrower, may be taken
or executed by the Directeur General of BDRN or by such other
person or persons as BDRN shall designate in writing, and BDRN
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Andre Joseph Wright
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "Small-scale Enterprise" means an Investment Enterprise
of which the majority of the outstanding voting stock or other
proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by
nationals of the Borrower and for which in the Investment Project
the ratio of fixed investment cost to jobs to be created is equal
to or less than the equivalent of $5,000, such amount being
subject to modification by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) "Medium-scale Enterprise" means an Investment Enter-
prise of which the majority of the outstanding voting stock or
other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by
nationals of the Borrower and for which in the Investment Project
the ratio of fixed investment cost to jobs to be created is above
the amount established under paragraph (a) above.
2.   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no more than
60% of the amount withdrawn under Part A.1 of the Praject shall be
relent to Medium-scale enterprises.
3.   Sub-loans shall bear interest at the rate of 11% per annum
on outstanding balances, provided, however, that Sub-loans
subject to interest-rate ceilings imposed by the Central Bank for
the Western African States shall bear interest at the highest
permissible level.
4.   BDRN shall require Investment Enterprises to finance at
least 10% of the costs of their Investment Projects and, in the
case of Medium-scale Enterprises, at least 25% from sources other
than their Sub-loans.
5.   Sub-loans shall have terms of between three and fifteen years
including appropriate periods of grace.


