Report No. PID7575
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Post-literacy and Continuing (@)
Education for Human Development
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       BDPE50752
Borrower                         Government of Bangladesh
Implementing Agency              Directorate of Non-Formal Education
(DNFE)/PMED
Block E, 2/6 Lalmatia, Dhaka, Bangladesh
Tel: (880-2) 814-814
Fax: (880-2) 810-980
Date this PID Prepared           September 18, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 20 - June 8, 2000
Projected Board Date             November 21, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.     Bangladesh is a country of about 128 million people, with four-fifths of
the population living in rural areas. In 1998, the average GNP per capita was
US$350. Although the incidence of poverty has improved during the 1990s, about
one half of the population lives in poverty and one third lives in extreme
poverty. Poverty is strongly correlated with the level of education. The
level of illiteracy among the 15+ age group is very high at about 49 percent
(1997). The Government has placed high priority on education, and has made
substantial progress over the last 20 years. Total public expenditure on
education increased to 2.79 of GNP in 1998 from 1.5% in 1980.    The gross
primary enrollment rate stands at about 100% (slightly below that of South
Asia) and about 47% of primary students are female.
2.     Given the still overwhelming number of illiterates and the breadth of
poverty in the country, non-formal and specifically literacy education, has
also been a high priority in Bangladesh. There is a national consensus on
providing educational opportunities for the excluded and the unreached
populations, namely those who did not complete formal education (due to
reasons such as poverty and necessity to work), and those who require a more
flexible system (working children and adults). The Government is currently
supporting substantial investments aimed at increasing basic literacy among
young adults and hard-to-reach children. This project responds to the
Government request for assistance to build on the foundation established under
the current non-formal education projects, and to further develop the non-
formal education system in Bangladesh.
Project Objectives
3.     The main development objective is to increase the functional application
of literacy skills by providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-
literates through a more comprehensive and enhanced system of non-formal
education. Investments made in non-formal education will yield better results



if a more effective system of post-literacy and continuing education is put in
place, to add to the current basic literacy programs. The current system of
post-literacy and continuing education is not sufficient enough in scope to
reach the numbers who are currently completing basic education courses, nor
organized enough in structure to serve those who are not ready to learn
independently. The proposed project is aimed at improving the provision of
post-literacy and continuing education to the neo-literates so that they can
use literacy skills to increase their incomes, improve their family's welfare,
and participate fully as citizens.
Project Description
4.     The proposed project will: (a) support the DNFE in establishing and
implementing strategies for a comprehensive and enhanced system of non-formal
education, through (i) the development of a national framework for non-formal
education and (ii) advocacy and dissemination activities; (b) support the
implementation of successful and effective models of post-literacy courses
through the participation of DNFE and other stakeholders; (c) improve the
quality and accessibility of continuing education services that are currently
available and develop new ones to meet learners' needs and interests. The
project would (i) support Continuing Education Centers (CECs), (ii) strengthen
and develop courses and other activities to be offered at those centers and
elsewhere, and (iii) link learners at the centers with opportunities for
continuing education, credit, employment, services, and other chances to
improve their lives; and (d) improve institutional capacity at DNFE by (i)
improving DNFE's administrative, financial information, and monitoring
systems, and (ii) developing its staff.
Project Financing
5.     The total project cost is tentatively estimated at US$71.6 million.    IDA
is expected to contribute US$53.3 million, representing about 75 percent of
the total cost. The Government of Bangladesh is expected to provide US$11.3
million. The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) will provide
the balance of US$7.0 million.
Project Implementation
6.     The DNFE will be the lead entity for the project.    A number of units
would collaborate to ensure a fully functioning system as follows: (a) the
Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED) would guide the DNFE in its
strategic planning, policy decisions, and management in post-literacy and
continuing education; (b) the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would
oversee the project and ensure effective coordination of project activities
with other projects and activities in the PMED. The PCC would help develop
partnerships and linkages with the other ministries and government
departments, NGOs, credit organizations, banks and private sector
organizations to support the project. It would review and approve the annual
implementation plan of the project; (c) the Director General of DNFE would be
responsible for the project; (d) a Project Implementation and Management Unit
(PIMU) would be established within DNFE to coordinate support for the project
by the four departments of DNFE (Planning, Implementation, Technical Support
Services Unit, and Administration and Finance) and field staff; (e) a Project
Director would head the PIMU. He would be assisted by two Deputy Directors;
(f) organizing continuing education services and building the capacity of
service providers would be the primary responsibility of Division Teams; (g)
Project Field Workers would support CECs and facilitate communication between
- 2-



the CECs and the Division Teams; (h) CECs' facilitators and Center Management
Committees would manage the CECs; and (i) NGOs and other private sector
organizations would implement the post-literacy and continuing education
programs through contracts with DNFE, as well as provide related services
(such as the linkages between learners and training).
Project Sustainability
7.     The proposed project will significantly contribute to the sustainability
of benefits from basic literacy programs by increasing the functional literacy
skills of program participants. Once learners have reached a higher literacy
level and are using these skills in daily life, literacy skills are far less
likely to be forgotten and the benefits of literacy (in terms of employment,
productivity, health practices, and attitudes) are far more likely to be
sustained.
8.     The second issue relating to sustainability is of continuance of the
post-literacy and continuing education programs themselves after project
completion. Given the projected numbers of basic literacy course completers
over the next ten years and the persistence of some measure of school dropout,
the Government is likely to continue to foster post-literacy and continuing
education opportunities, including by financing them directly.
9.     The Government is fully committed to non-formal education.    Even if the
Government were unable or unwilling to continue a leadership role in the
sector, the proposed project's heavy reliance on NGO and private sector
participation in the development, piloting, and implementation of post-
literacy and continuing education programs, should contribute towards the
sustainability of project innovations. To the extent that the project is able
to develop ownership of successful models of post-literacy and continuing
education that integrate the improvement of literacy skills with other content
relevant to learners interests, skills, and opportunities, it is likely that
participating NGOs and private sector agencies would adopt these improved
models into their own ongoing practice, independent of continued government
financing. In addition, the involvement of local people as members of the
CECs would contribute to the sustainability of the programs.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in Country/Sector
10.    The Mid-Term Review for the Bangladesh - Non-Formal Education Project
(Cr.2822-BD) was carried out during May 1999. The Review found that the
project's development objective: (a) remained relevant and appropriate in the
context of the Government's overall goals in the sector, and (b) had
progressed well in terms of expanding and improving non-formal programs. The
necessary policy framework and institutional arrangements had been developed
for planning, training, monitoring and evaluation, and coordination; DNFE had
been established; and the institutional building process was proceeding well.
Government commitment was strong as indicated by the 5 percent annual increase
in the DNFE budget. Other preliminary findings under various NFE projects in
Bangladesh are that: (a) literacy programs have been effective in increasing
awareness on the benefits of education; (b) most literacy participants advised
others to join literacy courses; (c) women participants took a more active
interest in their children's education; (d) literacy graduates participate
successfully in savings, credit schemes, and income-generating activities; (e)
NFE programs have high participation rates; (f) the capacity of DNFE and
- 3 -



other service providers need to be strengthened in view of the rapid increase
in the number of participants in the NFE programs; and (g) program content
needs to be flexible to cater to learners' environment and needs.
11.    Experience with literacy training in other parts of the world has also
taught some lessons. Literacy programs are most successful when they target
people in most need of literacy skills. A demand-based approach to the
delivery of literacy services enhances sustainability and strengthens
ownership of the programs by participants. Programs must respond to learners'
needs and perceptions, to be flexible, and to be established within a
framework of agreed parameters and indicators of quality (i.e. duration of
instruction, class attendance, and learning outcomes). Their design should
take account of learners' time constraints resulting from participation in
other activities (e.g. farming, harvesting, etc.). Programs are more
successful when there is strong commitment of key players and ownership of the
program as a whole. Institutional and community resources (school buildings,
teachers from primary schools, village leaders) should be leveraged to widen
and deepen program impact; local government and community groups need to be
closely involved in program design and implementation; women's participation
is essential. Monitoring and evaluation systems should be established from
the outset, with baseline data and clear indicators to assess learning
achievement and other benefits. Timely and reliable data are critical for
assessing project impact, and allows for needed adjustments. Applied research
can enhance project effectiveness.
Poverty Category
12.    The proposed project would be classified as Category B.    However, since
illiteracy is highly correlated with poverty, the project would place a high
priority on the underprivileged, mainly young adults and women.
Environmental Aspects
13.    The project is classified as Category C.    It is not likely to involve
construction of any kind. To the extent that environmental and health related
messages are incorporated into post-literacy and continuing education
materials and courses, the project will have a positive effect on the
environment.
Program Objective Categories
14.    The project is consistent with the Bank's strategy on:    (a) human
resource development; (b) institutional capacity building; and (c) overall
poverty alleviation. It is therefore classified in the Poverty Reduction and
Human Development Category.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
- 4-



