Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20914-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR41.8 MILLION
(US$53.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
POST-LITERACY AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 25, 2001
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2000)
Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (Tk)
Tk 54 = US$1.00
USSO.0185 = Tk 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBS                 -             Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BDHS                -             Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey
BHES                -             Bangladesh Household and Expenditure Survey
C&AG                -             Comptrollers and Auditor General
CAS                 -             Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs                -             Community-Based Organizations
CE                  -             Continuing Education
CECs                -             Continuing Education Centers
CMC                 -             Center Management Committee
CPAR                -             Country Procurement Assessment Report
DCOs                -             District Coordinators
DG                  -             Director General
DNFE                -             Directorate of Non-Formal Education
DOAFAP              -             Directorate of Audit Foreign Aided Projects
EFA                 -             Education for All
GER                 -             Gross Enrollment Rate
ICB                 -             Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                 -             Implementation Completion Report
IEC                 -             Information, Education and Communication
INFEP               -             Integrated Non-Formal Education Program
IS                  -             International Shopping
MAs                 -             Monitoring Associates
M&E                 -             Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                 -             Management Information System
NCB                  -            National Competitive Bidding
NFE                 -             Non-Formal Education
NFEP                -             Non-Formal Education Provider
NGOs                -             Non-Governmental Organizations
NORAD               -             Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NS                  -             National Shopping
PCC                 -             Project Coordination Committee
PCP                 -             Project Concept Paper
PCT                 -             Procurement Core Team
PIMU                -             Project Implementation Management Unit
PIP                 -             Project Implementation Plan
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director:   Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ana Maria Jeria



PL                  -             Post-literacy
PMED                -             Primary and Mass Education Division
PMRs                -             Project Management Reports
PP                  -             Project Proforma
PROCMOR             -             Procurement Monitoring Report
PVOs                -             Private Voluntary Organizations
QCBS                -             Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SDC                 -             Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SIDA                -             Swedish International Development Association
SEL                 -             Specific Investment Loan
SOE                 -             Statement of Expenditures
SRPP                -             Sample Request for Project Proposals
TLM                 -             Total Literacy Movement
TSSU                -             Technical Support Services Unit
UNICEF              -             United Nations Children's Fund
UPOs                -             Upazila Program Organizers
USAID               -             United States Agency for International Development






BANGLADESH
POST-LITERACY AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            17
2. Financial                                                                           18
3. Technical                                                                           19
4. Institutional                                                                       20
5. Environmental                                                                       22
6. Social                                                                              23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                      26



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         47
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               58
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            83
MAP(S)
IBRD 24206RI



BANGLADESH
Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASED
Date: January 25, 2001                            Team Leader: Ana Maria Jeria
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple   Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project ID: P050752                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X1 Credit    [ Grant       [ Guarantee      [ j Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 53.3
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5 %                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       10.62           0.63         11.24
IDA                                                            44.42           8.90         53.32
SWISS DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION                                   6.73           0.27          7.00
Total:                                                         61.77           9.80         71.57
Borrower: GOB
Responsible agency: DNFE
Directorate of Non-Formal Education (DNFE)
Address: 232/1 Tejgaon Industrial Area
Dhaka -1208
BANGLADESH
Contact Person: Mr. A.S. M. Abdul Halim, Director General
Tel: 880-2-988-2674                Fax: 880-2-881-3714                Email: dnfebd
@bdonline.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY.        2001       2002       2003       2004      2005:      2006..
Annual    1.00       18.60      11.40      11.70      10.10      0.50
Cumulative    1.00       19.60      31.00     42.70      52.80     53.30
Project implementation period: 04/01/2001 - 12/31/2005
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F0- R.V Mord 20(1



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objective is to increase the functional application of literacy skills by
providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates through a more comprehensive and
enhanced system of non-formal education. Given the overwhelmning number of illiterates and the breadth of
poverty in the country, non-formal education and specifically literacy training, is a high priority in
Bangladesh. There is a consensus on the need to provide educational opportunities for the excluded and the
unreached populations, namely those who did not complete formal education (due to reasons such as
poverty and necessity to work), and those who require a more flexible system (working children and
adults). Investments made in non-formal education will yield better results if a more effective system of
post-literacy and continuing education is put in place, to add to the current basic literacy programs. The
current system of post-literacy and continuing education is not sufficient enough in scope to reach the
numbers who are currently completing basic education courses, nor organized enough in structure to serve
those who are not ready to learn independently. The proposed project aims at improving the provision of
post-literacy and continuing education to the neo-literates so that they can use literacy skills to increase
their incomes, improve their family's welfare, and participate fully as citizens.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the objective will be monitored and assessed according to the key performance
indicators outlined in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21326-BD          Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/12/00
The proposed project is in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of reducing
poverty through programs and projects which directly assist the poor (CAS: March 6, 1998; CAS update:
July 20, 1999; latest CAS: November 17, 2000). This is consistent with the Government's Fifth Plan
(1997-2002) which envisages poverty alleviation as its overriding objective. Regarding the sector related
CAS goal, one of the strategic priorities of the CAS is to promote faster and more equitable human
development on the basis of a long-term vision and strategy for the social sectors, including the education
sector. IDA's education strategy focuses on better equipping disadvantaged groups to participate in
economic growth by emphasizing increased access to basic education and improved quality and efficiency
in the education sector. The proposed project is in line with the above strategic country and sector
priorities, and will aim to support directly the objective of promoting faster and more equitable human
development through the achievement of higher levels of functional literacy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Bangladesh is a country of about 128 million people, with four-fifths of the population living in
rural areas. In 1999, the average GNP per capita was US$370. Although the incidence of poverty has
improved during the 1990s, about one half of the population lives in poverty and one third lives in extreme
poverty. Bangladesh has the highest incidence of poverty in South Asia and the third highest number of
poor in the world after India and China. Poverty is strongly correlated with the level of education. The
level of illiteracy among the 15+ age group is very high at about 49 % (1997). According to the Primary
and Mass Education Division (PMED), the level of illiteracy was 42 % in 1999. Studies of household
- 2 -



expenditure data reveal that there is a strong and positive correlation between poverty and illiteracy -- in
1996, the incidence of poverty was 48% among illiterates compared to 20% among the literate population.
In general, the Government has placed high priority on education, and has made substantial progress over
the last 20 years. At the primary level, most children now participate in school (the gross enrollment rate
(GER) is close to 100%), and about 47% of primary students are female. Total public expenditure on
education increased from 1.5% in 1980 to 2.7% of GDP in 1998.
Given the overwhelming number of illiterates and the breadth of poverty in the country, non-formal
and specifically literacy training, has also become a high priority for the Government. In the context of the
national commitment to the goal of Education for All (EFA) and to complement its work in primary
education, the Government is currently supporting substantial investments in basic literacy. Two
approaches, a "center" based approach and a "campaign" approach (Total Literacy Movement, or TLM),
are being pursued, defined as those run by NGOs and local administrations respectively. The Directorate
of Non-Formal Education (DNFE) within the PMED is managing the implementation of four major
projects aimed at reaching 34.4 million learners (ages 8-45 years old) and achieving 84% adult literacy by
the year 2002. In addition, NGOs, private voluntary organizations (PVOs), community-based
organizations (CBOs) and other private sector organizations provide a variety of literacy activities and
other social and economic mobilization programs, such as income generation and community development.
Although ambitious, the program for basic literacy education is relatively sound in design and delivery, and
the joint efforts of both Government and NGOs help large numbers of people to access instruction in
reading, writing and numeracy.
The sector now faces four interrelated issues: a need to develop a comprehensive vision of
non-formal education; inadequate pedagogical support for neo-literates; weak links between literacy
training and opportunities for continuing education, and insufficient institutional capacity within the sector.
(1) Need to develop a comprehensive vision of non-formal education
A comprehensive vision for education starts with a recognition that all adults operate within a
nuumber of roles: as a worker, as a parent and as a citizen. The goal of education is for people to take
independent or community action to improve their work, family and community situations. Such action
requires: (1) competency in specific functional skills related to gaining employment, increasing production,
changing health practices, exercising legal rights or improving quality of life; (2) sufficient literacy to
support the use of such functional skills; and (3) a sense of self-efficacy and empowerment (the belief that
one can be successful when taking action).
In addition, it is widely accepted that leamning takes place at various times and places in the
society. Gained knowledge and skills need to be continuously used and enhanced in order to make them an
effective tool for improving one's social and economic life. If parents and communities do not read, and are
not knowledgeable about accessing information/knowledge resources for further leaming, children may not
be able to take advantage of education. If reading materials are not available at home and literacy skills are
not used on a daily basis, skills gained at school cannot be retained nor allowed one to continue learning. If
there is no other educational system than formal schooling, those who missed school would not be able to
acquire further skills.
In this context and at this stage in the development of the non-formal education system, in which
basic literacy is being provided in such a large scale, it is necessary to start focusing attention on the
provision of educational opportunities for the neo-literates to acquire functional knowledge and skills as
well as literacy, and on the sustainability of current investments. As with many programs and activities,
-3 -



returns on investment in basic literacy under the ongoing NFE projects would benefit from further
improvements in curriculum, teacher training and monitoring. However, even with improvements in basic
literacy, education experts agree that achievement through a basic literacy course is not enough for learners
to maintain their literacy skills over an extended period of time without additional instruction. Every
literacy system needs an effective post-literacy and continuing education system that provides follow-on
literacy services to help learners retain, improve and use the basic literacy skills, and to acquire deeper
functional knowledge. In other words, an enhanced vision for non-forrmal education in Bangladesh will
include opportunities for all three levels: basic, post-literacy and continuing education.
To achieve such a system, the vision must include developing and implementing a range of
opportunities for post-literacy and continuing education that are diverse enough to serve the multitude of
different workers, parents, and citizens in the country, as well as a commitment to on-going improvements
in the quality of the system at all levels. The vision must include a belief that a high-quality,
comprehensive system will serve all of the development efforts of the country, by helping people acquire a
strong foundation of skills, knowledge and empowerment for taking action in, say, agriculture, health, and
social justice.
Also needed, is a vision of how such a comprehensive education system would evolve over time.
Clearly over the medium term, the need for large-scale investments in basic literacy should decline, whereas
the need for post-literacy and continuing education opportunities will grow. Over the longer term, there
will probably be a need for a small core of well-targeted literacy and post-literacy programs, but a much
wider demand for a range of continuing education programs. Over the longer term also, getting recognition
for what is learned outside the formal education system will become important. Currently, Bangladesh has
no equivalency system -- that is a mechanism for certifying learners' achievements outside the formal
school system. Therefore, individuals who lack formal school credentials may be deprived of opportunities
for work and learning for which they may actually have the needed skills. How these shifting needs and
priorities will be managed in institutional terms also needs to be addressed.
(II) Inadequate pedagogical support for neo-literates
Learners completing the basic literacy course without a critical level of literacy skill may not be able
to retain or improve skills on their own. However, neither Government nor NGOs in Bangladesh have so
far been able to implement an effective and comprehensive post-literacy system, designed as a high-quality
follow-up to basic literacy. The current DNFE system of post-literacy is not effective and needs to be
improved. As originally designed, the DNFE model combined four or five basic literacy centers into one
post-literacy center. This usually means that 120-150 learners have to walk up to two kms. to reach the
post-literacy center. The post-literacy centers are run by one teacher and his/her role is to provide
assistance as needed to individual readers, rather than organized and sequenced instruction. This
post-literacy model is not convenient for many neo-literates, and many need further instruction as well as
opportunities to read. Without organized, high-quality follow-up to basic literacy, investments in basic
literacy will not have as high returns as expected.
A few organizations have been experimenting with literacy and post-literacy programs through
innovative models that may be suitable to the learners' situation in Bangladesh. Proshika has experimented
with study circles (defined as organized sets of group meetings, where leamers come together regularly --
say once a week, to read a series of booklets/materials and discuss them in a regular discussion format) as
a way to provide post-literacy education to members of its groups. ActionAid is using the REFLECT
approach to basic literacy instruction (which uses action research to identify literacy needs of learners in
order to build learning activities), and individual trainers are using other PRA (community literacy)
- 4 -



approaches to help learners improve literacy practices. Such an approach could be tried as a post-literacy
methodology, wherein teachers are trained to work with learners conducting action research about their
literacy needs and practices and then organizing post-literacy activities to help learners practice "real"
literacy (e.g., writing and posting letters, using math for small businesses, etc.). The DNFE program has
given opportunities to many illiterate youth and adults to acquire basic literacy skills, but this ambitious
effort has not yet been able to provide the pedagogical support that neo-literates often need to consolidate,
improve, and use their skills. In the past year, the Directorate has begun to pilot models of post-literacy
training, which it intends to implement on a large scale.
(I) Weak links between literacy training and opportunities for continuing education
The DNFE's strategy in providing literacy skills has been to systematically move from district to
district offering basic literacy and some post-literacy courses, aiming at helping learners achieve close to a
class 4-5 level of literacy competency. The implementation of this ambitious program, however, has left
the DNFE little time and few resources to consider its role in non-formal education beyond literacy. DNFE
made a conscious decision to follow this strategy and is now in a position to further develop its role, as well
as its skills training program.
Several skills training programs already exist in Bangladesh, in the form of life-skills training,
vocational skills training, or income-generation and credit programs. Training is offered to credit group
members by many NGOs and private organizations on topics such as livestock, improved crop production,
or legal rights for women. Government agencies also offer different types of vocational training. It is likely
that the lack of literacy content in many skills training courses that target illiterates limits their
effectiveness. Moreover, the continuing growth of smaller NGOs in the field of education has included
many that do not have the capacity to manage their programs well, report adequately to those to whom they
are financially accountable, or market their services. Some of these NGOs need help in improving the
quality of their programs.
From the neo-literate's point of view, the problem is to find good-quality training programs that
lead to further opportunities for education and employment or to noticeable improvements in their
productivity or living conditions. Part of the challenge is getting information about what is available and
getting access to courses and opportunities that are of interest. Leamers need a center, or at least a venue,
where they can travel easily to seek information, use reading materials and other media, and take continuing
education courses that build on their new literacy skills. Another part of the challenge is offering courses
relevant to potential participants' needs, interests and skill levels and improving their quality.
(IV) Insufficient institutional capacity
DNFE is currently implementing four NFE projects. Although DNFE has been able to reach its
targets and deliver the basic literacy program, its capacity is stretched to the maximum and it needs to be
reviewed and improved for both ongoing and additional programs. Bangladesh has adopted a centralized
system of planning, program formulation and monitoring in the management of non-formal education with
a decentralized mode of program implementation and supervision. The DNFE, operating under PMED, the
highest body responsible for overseeing primary and mass education, manages the non-formal education
program at the center. The Directorate was established not too long ago, but within a very short period of
time it has evolved as a well organized Government organization. It is today the largest NFE provider in
Bangladesh. GOB efforts are complemented and strengthened through a partnership between DNFE and
district administrations and a host of NGOs, Community Based Organizations (CBOs), and Private
Voluntary Organizations (PVOs) in the delivery of NFE programs that allows NFE programs to be
- 5 -



accessible to millions of people living in different parts of the country.
DNFE has devised effective strategies for basic literacy delivery. However, recent institutional
assessments have reported on the need to improve decision-making, planning and reporting, develop its
professional capacity for research and evaluation, better allocate management functions, improve its
database key indicators, avoid frequent staff rotation, and increase the professional capacity of its technical
and management staff in the management of non-formal education sector.
Thus, the institutional decision-making mechanisms at central and local levels need to be
strengthened so that they have the capacity to serve an enhanced system of non-formal education. More
particularly, innovative post-literacy and continuing education activities demand management structures
and processes that permit good policy access, substantial authority, a high degree of professional autonomy
with a staff possessing strong professional competence, good Management Information System (MIS),
improved planning, monitoring and reporting capacity and new avenues and linkages of cooperation
between multiple stakeholders, providers and actors in the non-formal education field.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses the issues outlined above through four projects components (see Annex 2 for a
detailed description):
(I) Promoting a Comprehensive and Enhanced Non-Formal Education System:
The project will offer technical expertise and opportunities for stakeholders in the non-formal
education sector, both public and private, to collaborate in setting a vision for the sector and in
communicating that vision to providers and learners throughout the country. It will support the
development of a national framework for non-formal education and advocacy and dissemination activities.
Building on the popular participation of people, nation builders, political leaders and community workers
which has raised awareness and enthusiasm about literacy and its value, the DNFE will collaborate with
stakeholders to put in place a national framework with clear articulation of the concepts of literacy,
post-literacy and continuing education defined in the context of Bangladesh. The framework will explain
how literacy and continuing education programs would be integrated with other development initiatives. In
particular, linkages between agencies and organizations, both government and non-government, involved in
social services, economic sector and development programs will be made clear. In a continuing and
evolving process, the national framework will define priority target groups that will receive post-literacy
and continuing education, and indicate modes of delivery, partnership and implementation arrangements.
The desirability and feasibility of equivalency programs that allow people to eam academic credentials
based on knowledge and experience acquired through non-formal programs, will be assessed. Advocacy
and dissemination strategies will be pursued so that the new system is widely understood and recognized.
(II) Supporting Improved Post-literacy Education:
The project will support the implementation of new successful models of post-literacy instruction.
Most basic literacy completers would benefit from a more structured approach to post-literacy that
integrates literacy with an area of functional knowledge. Innovative models of delivering literacy and
post-literacy are being piloted by the DNFE. With support from SIDA and NORAD, the DNFE has
developed an activity to design more effective models of post-literacy courses. The DNFE has selected 23
NGOs to pilot models. These pilots were launched in February 2000. DNFE will survey and assess this
experience for adaptation in an upgraded and expanded post-literacy program.
- 6 -



Evaluations of effectiveness and impact of the post-literacy activities will be built into the program.
In order to make appropriate decisions about the efficacy and the impact of the various models of
post-literacy that will be implemented, informnation about the dropout and achievement rate (improvement
of literacy and acquisition of functional knowledge) will be collected before and after participation in
post-literacy activities from a number of learners. Decisions can then be made to support successful
models and revise or drop inefficient ones (those that have delivery systems and contents that are not
attractive to the post-literacy learners). In addition, the project will conduct appropriate research that
follows literacy participants from basic to post-literacy and into continuing education and looks at
measures of impact (see Annex 1) related to people's actions as workers, parents and citizens and
corresponding changes in their lives.
(III) Establishing a Continuing Education Program:
The main purpose of this activity is to improve the quality and accessibility of continuing education
services that are currently available and to develop new ones to meet learners' needs and interests. The
project will support selected approaches to continuing education focusing mainly on: (a) supporting
Continuing Education Centers (CECs) in selected upazilas, where learners come to improve their literacy,
technical, and/or life skills, to learn about accessible opportunities for participation in other social and
economic development activities, and to use reading materials and other media available at the center; (b)
strengthening and piloting/developing courses and other activities to be offered at those centers and
elsewhere. The project will help NGOs and other non-formal education providers (such as CBOs and
PVOs) develop and offer courses demanded by learners at the CECs. It will help also these agencies and
organizations improve the quality of the courses they offer, promote their services to learners, and improve
their own management practices; and (c) linking learners at the centers with opportunities for continuing
education, credit, employment, services, and other chances to improve their lives.
(IV) Strengthening Institutional Capacity:
The project will help the DNFE to: (a) improve its administrative, financial information, and
monitoring systems so that they support the management of enhanced DNFE activities. It will help project
staff improve financial management, procurement of goods and services, human resources management,
delivery of higher quality training, and effective use of the MIS and of the monitoring and evaluation
system. The monitoring and evaluation units will need to improve upon their methods for measuring
literacy achievement in light of the new competency levels standards that will be established during the
project; they will also need to be able to measure the impact of the literacy programs' linkages to
continuing education, employment opportunities, better health practices and other life skills applications;
and (b) develop its staff. Better management skills at the upper and mid-levels of DNFE will be required to
manage the development and implementation of new programs through the project. The technical units of
DNFE will need better skills, manpower, equipment and resources to improve its research and development
capacity and to coordinate and manage materials development activities. The PIMU staff will receive
training in planning, evaluation, reporting, MIS and quality assessment.
The project design will reflect the fact that capacity building tends to be a slow process. In the
first two years of the project, when there is the greatest overlap between ongoing basic literacy programs
and the proposed project, emphasis will be placed on developing technical capacity, the piloting of models
and the phased introduction of activities.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(1) Promoting Enhanced and         Other Education     1.35       1.9       1.29       2.4
Comprehensive NFE
(2) Post-literacy program          Other Education    14.20      19.8     12.85       24.1
(3) Supporting Continuing education    Other Education  50.64    70.8     34.55       64.8
program
(4) Strengthening Institutional Capacity  Institutional  5.38     7.5      4.64        8.7
Development
Total Project Costs                  71.57     100.0     53.33      100.0
Total Financing Required                   71.57      100.0     53.33     100.0
.~~~110
Note: Total project cost amounts to US$71.6 million with rounding.
The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) worked with the Government and
the Bank in project design and will support the project under joint co-financing with IDA. SDC is
interested in supporting the establishment of continuing education programs, post-literacy implementation
and capacity strengthening. SDC will contribute US$7.0 million to the project. The fulfillment of
conditions of effectiveness of the SDC Grant Agreement is a condition precedent to the Effectiveness of the
IDA Development Credit Agreement (DCA). SDC and IDA have agreed to synchronize project processing
so as to be able to accomplish Credit Effectiveness expeditiously. During the implementation of the project,
IDA and SDC will: (a) conduct joint supervision missions and share missions' Aide Memoires; (b)
exchange relevant information on the project progress as well as on SDC and IDA procedures; and (c)
promptly communicate critical project information and major funding decisions.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the Government's collaboration with non-government organizations in the
provision of non-formal education services. The DNFE will continue in its productive relationship with the
private sector and enhance its collaboration with NGOs. The DNFE will also begin to collaborate with
other government agencies that offer non-formal education and training. The project is structured and
financed with collaboration between government and non-government partners at the central, division,
district, upazila, union, and village levels.
For the purposes of the project, the Government has adopted definitions of various components of
non-formal education. These are as follows: Basic literacy is defined as an organized and facilitated set of
group activities where the focus is literacy skills, integrated into a range of topics providing general
awareness and life skills. The proportion of literacy skills development to functional content is roughly
80/20. Post-literacy is defined as an organized and facilitated set of group activities, where the focus is
literacy skills, integrated with the development of functional knowledge needed for taking action as a
worker, a parent and/or a citizen. The proportion of literacy skills development to functional knowledge is
- 8 -



roughly 50/50. Continuing education is defined as an organizational set of group or individual activities,
either facilitated or unfacilitated, where the focus is on functional skills training (at a higher level) wherein
learners can use their literacy skills to increase their income, improve their family welfare and participate
fully as citizens. The proportion of literacy skills development to functional skills is roughly 20/80.
3. Benefits and target population:
Given the strong correlation between poverty and illiteracy in Bangladesh, the project's focus on
neo-literates means that project benefits are naturally targeted toward the poorer segment of the population.
The project expects to benefit approximately 1.6 million learners, half of them women, who would have
participated in post-literacy training and continuing education programs. In addition, the project will result
in a nationwide network of organizations that provide continuing education and related services, with
Division teams that contribute to improving the quality of courses demanded by learners, approximately
230 field offices that help link service providers and leamers, and 6,900 village-level Continuing Education
Centers that provide a venue for training and information to neo-literates. As a result of their participation,
many of these leamers will move on to further training and to better employment or better practices in their
current occupations, including farming, thus reducing their vulnerability and insecurity. Many will
improve their skills as family members and community members.
Overall expected benefits from the project include: (a) better opportunities and information about,
access to, and ability to engage in, employment and income-generation activities for course participants; (b)
productivity gains; (c) empowered learners, especially women, achieving a higher status in the society; (d)
improved health practices among participants and families; (e) higher commitment to children's education;
(f) improved knowledge of rights and responsibilities of citizenship, and ability to act on that knowledge;
and (g) confidence to join with others in forming self-help and related organizations without external
assistance. Additional benefits should include: (a) improved communication and collaboration among
government agencies, the private sector, and third-sector institutions (NGOs, CBOs, etc.) regarding human
resource development needs; and (b) the development of a menu of successful, tested, cost-effective models
for delivery of post-literacy and continuing education.
The Government will establish strategies for targeting neo-literates who would benefit from the
project. Even with the proposed expansion of post-literacy and continuing education programs, it is
unlikely that there will be sufficient capacity to accommodate all potential participants. Targeting criteria
will be in place before the start of the project, so that targeting guidelines and procedures can be defined,
and models and materials developed that best suit the target population. Government will target areas
based on established criteria. Targeting criteria will include both: (a) upazilas and villages that have been
served by the DNFE's literacy activities, including those covered by both the CBA and TLM models; and
(b) upazilas and villages representing a range of economic and social conditions, so that the project can be
tested under a variety of conditions. Some upazilas will be selected because there are opportunities for
neo-literates to find employment in the infornal or formal labor market. Within those upazilas, the project
will serve disadvantaged people, where the economic and social conditions are poorer.
Finally, DNFE programs have a built-in provision that a minimum of 50% of its leaming activities
enroll female learners only. DNFE will continue to recruit female staff; follow a curriculum focused on
empowerment of women, rights of women and gender equality; and, develop trainers' manuals which
promotes gender equality.
-9-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation: The DNFE will be the lead entity for the project. A nurmber of units will
collaborate to ensure a fully functioning system. Some of the units already exist, but others will be added
by the project as follows: (a) The PMED will guide the DNFE in its strategic planning, policy decisions,
and management in post-literacy and continuing education; (b) The present Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), headed by the Secretary of the PMED, will oversee the project and ensure effective
coordination of project activities with other projects and activities in the PMED. The PCC will help
develop partnerships and linkages with the other ministries and government departments, NGOs and other
non-formal education providers, credit organizations, banks and private sector organizations to support the
project. It will review and approve the annual implementation plan of the project; (c) The Director
General (DG) of DNFE will be responsible for the project; (d) A Project Implementation Management
Unit (PLMU) will be established within DNFE to coordinate support for the project by the four
departments of DNFE (Planning, Implementation, Technical Support Services Unit, and Administration
and Finance) and field staff at the Division level; (e) A Project Director will head the PIMU, to be assisted
by two Deputy Directors; (f) Organizing continuing education services and building the capacity of service
providers will be the primary responsibility of Division Teams; (g) Upazila Program Organizers (UPOs)
at the upazila level will support CECs and facilitate communication between the CECs and the Division
Teams; (h) CECs' facilitators and Center Management Committees will manage the CECs; and (i)
NGOs and other non-formal education providers will implement the post-literacy and continuing
education programs through contracts with DNFE, and other related services (such as the linkages between
learners and training) (see details in Annex 2).
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over five years. The project will start at
the beginning of calendar year 2001 and complete its activities by December 2005. Project years will be as
follows: Year 1: FY2000/01(April-June 2001); Year 2: FY2001/02; Year 3: FY2002/03; Year 4:
FY2003/04; Year 5: FY2004/05; and Year 6: FY2005/06 (up to December 2005).
Estimated program delivery of post-literacy and continuing education components and estimated
beneficiaries are as follows: all six divisions in the country and 230 Upazilas will benefit from the project.
Three-months post-literacy activities and six months continuing education activities at 6,900 centers will be
conducted, resulting in approximately 55,200 learning activities (half of them for female learners). The
total estimated beneficiaries during the life of the project will be about 1.6 million learners.
NGOs Selection and Contracting Procedure: The role of NGOs and other non-formal education
providers will be particularly important in the implementation of post-literacy and the establishment and
operation of CECs. It has been agreed that NGOs and other non-formal education providers will be
selected and appointed in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA. Such criteria and
procedures, which were accepted at Negotiations, are set forth in Attachment 1 to Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E): M&E activities will be built-in with the current program
operations of the DNFE with a view to improve the geographical coverage of monitoring activities and the
analysis and usage of collected data. The monitoring and reporting formats will be simplified, and only the
information necessary and usable for the immediate and future improvement of activities, will be collected
for analysis and action. The M&E system will ensure prompt feedback on issues, and dissemination of
results to the implementers. M&E activities will comprise six modalities: (a) regular monitoring by
Monitoring Associates and DNFE officials; (b) in-house monitoring by the program implementing
organizations; (c) assessment of learners' achievement and improvement in their economic status and
quality of living; (d) annual, mid-term, and end-of-project reviews; (e) focused studies conducted on the
- 10-



project components; and (f) sample based in-depth studies on quality aspects of program and impact.
Project Financial Management System: DNFE, the executing agency for the project, follows the
government accounting system, the main focus of which is on book-keeping and transactional control over
expenditures. DNFE is currently implementing several similar projects of which Non-Formal Education
Project, Credit 2822-BD (known as NFE-1) is financed by IDA, SDC and the Asian Development Bank.
Thus, DNFE has accumulated experiences in maintaining the project accounts of donor-funded projects.
However, the Quality Assurance Group of the Bank reviewed the financial management of the current
NFE-1 as part of Rapid Quality Supervision Assessment in FY1998/99 and rated the financial management
of the project as not fully satisfactory. Moreover, the financial management system is operated mostly
manually.
Recognizing the weaknesses of DNFE and NFE-1, a comprehensive project financial management
system has been developed and docunented in a Project Financial Management Manual for the
Post-literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project. Key actions completed before
project start-up are: (a) the project financial management system, i.e. development of the Project Financial
Management Manual, has been designed; and (b) software for the computerized financial management
system has been developed. In addition, financial management staff in the PIMU will be selected and
appointed before Credit Effectiveness (Deputy Director - Finance and Administration, Accounts Officer
and Assistant Accountant-cum-Computer Operator), and the computer hardware required for the
computerization of financial management system will be made available.
During Negotiations it was agreed that GOB would continue to strengthen the project financial
management system in accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to IDA. As part of this effort,
GOB will: (a) maintain for the duration of the project, a computerized project financial management
system, in accordance with a Project Financial Management Manual which will be revised by February 21,
2001; (b) engage a Deputy Director (Finance and Administration), an Accounts Officer and an Assistant
Accountant-cum-Computer Operator for the duration of the project for financial management (these staff
need to be fully competent); and (c) offer training to the project financial management staff to operate the
computerized financial management system. As a part of capacity development, DNFE staff will also be
trained in the computerized financial management system. Details on the financial management
arrangements are included in Annex 6.
Disbursements. Initially, disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of
Project Management Reports (PMRs), but on traditional transaction-based disbursement procedures
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditures). Nevertheless, from the
beginning of the project, the project financial management system will be in operation, and quarterly PMRs
will be produced and submitted to IDA within 45 days from the end of each quarter for review. It is
anticipated that by December 31, 2001, after the satisfactory operation of the improved financial
management system is demonstrated, disbursements will be made according to PMR procedures.
Auditing. IDA requires that audited financial statements of the project, in accordance with
standards acceptable to IDA, be submitted within six months from the end of each fiscal year. The Foreign
Aided Projects Audit Directorate (FAPAD) of the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG)
will conduct the audit of the Project Accounts/SOEs, Special Accounts, and PMRs. TORs for such audit
have been prepared and agreed with IDA. In addition to C&AG's audits, two independent performance
audits including review of the financial management system and verification of the procurement process
will be carried out. The TORs for such audits have been agreed during Negotiations.
- 11 -



Procurement: Procurement under the project will be handled by PIMU with the support of DNFE.
In the meantime, DNFE has formed a Procurement Core Team (PCT) entrusted with the responsibility of
dealing with all procurement matters starting from preparation of documents up to the award and
implementation of the contracts. For procurement of goods, financed in part or in whole from IDA funds,
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines shall apply. For consultants' services financed in part or in whole from
IDA funds and for NGOs and other non-formal education providers' services, the Consultants Guidelines
shall apply. NGOs and other non-formal education providers will be selected and appointed in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA and set forth in Annex 6 (Attachment 1). For procurement
of services including a part of local training financed under a grant from the Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation (SDC) administered by the Bank, the Bank's Guidelines shall apply.
Procurement includes goods and consultants' services including NGO services, and training.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more per contract will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure. Any goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract may be procured using national competitive bidding (NCB) procedure. Up to an
aggregate amount of US$750,000 equivalent, goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured through international shopping (IS) or national shopping procedure (NS) by
soliciting price quotations from at least three eligible bidders. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$1,500 or less per contract may be procured through direct contracting.
Consultant's services through firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per
contract shall be procured on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Other
individual consultants will be hired on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with Section
V of the Consultants Guidelines. Training and dissemination will be on the basis of Single Source
Selection subject to prior agreement by IDA. NGOs and other non-formal education providers will be
selected following a Fixed Budget method (i.e. in accordance with a disclosed budget) as per the selection
procedures described in Annex 6 (Attachment 1).
IDA will carry out prior review of the following contracts: (a) for Goods, all contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more irrespective of procedures and first two contracts for the
procurement under NCB. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review by IDA; and (b) for
Services, IDA's prior review will be required for consultants' services contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals. For NGOs and other
non-formal education providers' services, IDA's prior review will be required for: the draft request for
project proposals, the proposals' evaluation report including the list of technically qualified NGOs and
other non-formal education providers together with their scores/ranking after it has been reviewed and
cleared by the Subvention Sub-committee, and the draft contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or more. Other
services arrangements subject to prior review by IDA will include: all single-source contracts and terms of
reference for all contracts for consultants' services. IDA will carry out sample post review of contracts that
are below IDA's prior review threshold. Such post review of contracts below the thresholds will be carried
out for approximately up to 10% of the contracts awarded.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative technical approaches. Various alternative approaches were considered for providing
support to neo-literates. An approach to post-literacy, which would have been simpler to design and
implement, was discarded from the outset. This approach called for a standard, country-wide post-literacy
- 12 -



curriculum, delivered through the standard course fonrnat (similar to the current courses and the Chetona
1-2-3 texts used nationwide for provision of basic literacy services). Such a course would have been easier
to develop and deliver, based on DNFE's current experience in delivering a course-type intervention, and
the logistics of providing subvention to NGOs which would have been more direct and parallel to the
current system used for basic literacy. In fact, such a system is now in place, by way of using Chetona 3
book as a post-literacy intervention. The problem is that such post-literacy centers are staffed with only
one teacher for 120-150 learners, making it impossible for learners either to attend or to receive meaningful
instruction. Even if each basic literacy learner were to have access to post-literacy activities, using the
same venue and the same teacher, the DNFE itself recognizes that many learners would be likely to drop
out of such a course, using Chetona 3, because of the time commitment required (i.e., combining basic and
post-literacy in a continuous course meeting almost daily for 10-11 months would be difficult for many,
especially if the content were not narrowed sufficiently to prepare learners for practical application of skills
learned).
An altemative approach would be to develop a standard model that is more effective than the
current approach and use it nationwide, first teaching post-literacy, and then offering continuing education.
Yet another approach would be to develop a system that tailors post-literacy and continuing education
courses to specific groups of learners, depending on incentives available to learners in their location. This
approach would be more difficult to design and implement, but it would very likely be the most effective,
given the consensus that neo-literates continue to use and improve their skills only when there is an
economic or social incentive to do so.
The selected approach is to support both of the above alternative approaches in a flexible manner
and based on ongoing experience. For post-literacy, the DNFE is currently working with NGOs to pilot
new models that will be more effective than the current model. Effective models will then be implemented
on a wider scale. For continuing education, the project will support the development of a system that helps
providers be responsive at the local level to opportunities for neo-literates to use their literacy skills in
conjunction with practical needs, interests, and skills.
Alternative sectoral approaches. Within the basic education sector, Bangladesh also has room for
development in its primary and secondary schools. In the primary sector, Bangladesh has made significant
progress in expanding access to primary education, and is currently focused on improving quality at this
level. The alternative of increasing the investment level in primary education rather than non-formnal was
considered, but discarded given the fact that investment levels in primary education are already quite high.
IDA recently approved a US$150.0 million project aimed at improving primary education quality.
Regarding the secondarv sector, clearly with an increasing number of children completing primary school,
investments in the expansion and improvement of secondary education will become more important. IDA is
currently supporting an incentive program for girls to complete secondary education and will be preparing
further investments in the sub-sector. Given the immediate need to sustain investments in basic literacy,
however, and the strong equity justification for investments in non-formal education, the decision was made
to proceed with the non-formal focus to the project as planned.
Alternative delivery mechanisms and designs. In the course of project preparation,
cost-effectiveness and cost utility analysis of alternative delivery mechanisms and approaches were carried
out. Three post-literacy alternatives currently being used in Bangladesh were assessed. Continuing
education models included one that uses NGOs to deliver courses and another that uses local
administration. Continuing education models are also analyzed in terms of how they integrate practical
skills training into the program. These analyses are presented in the Section E. I below and in Annex 4.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1000 0 0    p             :f:: t0      :f0           :Latest Superisionl
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improve and expand non-formal    Bangladesh - Non-Formal           S            S
education; strengthen capacity to  Education
deliver programs through NGOs and   (Credit 2822-BD)
district administration
Increase equitable access to primary   Bangladesh - General       S             S
and secondary schooling; improve  Education (Credit 2118-BD) -
quality of education; strengthen  Closed (OED: evaluation:
management capacity; and prepare    Satisfactory)
future policies and programs for higher
secondary and post-secondary
education reforms.
Improve school quality and system  Bangladesh - Primary           U             S
efficiency; establish a sustainable,  Education Development (Credit
cost-effective and better managed  N0380-BD)
education system; and ensure universal
coverage and equitable access to
quality primary schooling.
Enhance basic education and      Indonesia - Non-Formal           S             S
income-generating skills of the poor,   Education III
with particular emphasis on women and (Loan 3431 -IND)
the disadvantaged
Support Government's adult literacy   Ghana - Adult Literacy      S             S
programs, focusing on poor rural areas (Credit 2349-GH)
and women and on income-generation
activities
First phase of program to reduce  Senegal - Pilot Female Literacy  HS          HS
illiteracy through support to NGOs    (Credit 2873-SE)
- 14 -



Strengthen human capital by making   Morocco - SPI - Education      S             S
education and literacy available to  (Loan 4024-MOR)
disadvantaged populations, through
targeting of the poorest, demand and
supply for education, and institution
building
Other development agencies
Adult Literacy                    Non-Formal Education 2
(SIDA, NORAD and USAID)
Literacy for working and slum dwelling Non-Formal Education 3
children and adolescents          (UNICEF, SIDA)
Adult Literacy                    Non-Formal Education 4
(Government of Bangladesh)
IPJDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Mid-Term Review for the Bangladesh - Non-Formal Education Project (Cr. 2822-BD) was
carried out during May 1999. The Review found that the project's development objective: (a) remained
relevant and appropriate in the context of the Government's overall goals in the sector, and (b) had
progressed well in terms of expanding and improving non-formal programs. The necessary policy
framework and institutional arrangements had been developed for planning, training, monitoring and
evaluation, and coordination; DNFE had been established; and the institutional building process was
proceeding well. Government commitment was strong as indicated by the 5% annual increase in the DNFE
budget.
Some of the preliminary findings under various NFE projects in Bangladesh are that: (a) literacy
programs have been effective in increasing awareness on the benefits of education; (b) most literacy
participants advised others to join literacy courses; (c) women participants took a more active interest in
their children's education; (d) literacy graduates participate successfully in savings, credit schemes, and
income-generating activities; (e) NFE programs have high participation rates; (f) the capacity of DNFE
and other service providers need to be strengthened in view of the rapid increase in the number of
participants in the NFE programs; and (g) program content needs to be flexible to cater to leamers'
enviromnent and needs. SDC studies on the non-formal education sector in Bangladesh reveal that 100%
of participants indicate awareness of women's rights, and over 65% of male participants agree on the
importance of women's rights to express opinions in the family.
Experience with literacy training in other parts of the world has also taught some lessons. Literacy
programs are most successful when they target people in most need of literacy skills. A demand-based
approach to the delivery of literacy services enhances sustainability and strengthens ownership of the
programs by participants. Programs must respond to learners' needs and perceptions, to be flexible, and to
be established within a framework of agreed parameters and indicators of quality (i.e. duration of
instruction, class attendance, and learning outcomes). Their design should take account of leamers' time
constraints resulting from participation in other activities (e.g. farming, harvesting, etc.).
- 15 -



Programs are more successful when there is strong commitment of key players and ownership of
the program as a whole. Institutional and community resources (school buildings, teachers from primary
schools, village leaders) should be leveraged to widen and deepen program impact; local government and
community groups need to be closely involved in program design and implementation; women's
participation is essential.
Monitoring and evaluation systems should be established from the outset, with baseline data and
clear indicators to assess leaming achievement and other benefits. Timely and reliable data are critical for
assessing project impact, and allows for needed adjustments. Applied research can enhance project
effectiveness.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is fully committed to non-formal education. In line with the Govemment's
commitment to Education For All, an Integrated Non-formal Education Program (INFEP) was initiated in
1992 to address the needs of the illiterate population outside the formal system. INFEP supported two
different types of NFE programs: (i) center-based literacy and survival skills programs implemented by the
Govermment and NGOs, and (ii) the Total Literacy Movement (TLM), managed by the local administration
at the district level. These approaches continue to be implemented to date. In 1996 INFEP was upgraded
and became the DNFE. Currently the DNFE is the implementing agency for four approved projects
amounting to a development budget of about US$309.1 million over five years (1996-2001). Of this
amount, US$170.0 million (55%) are funded entirely by the Government. More than 34 million leamers
are targeted in these projects. Three of these projects target adolescents and adults and one offers basic
literacy to the "hard-to-reach urban children".
PMED/DNFE staff have prepared a Project Concept Paper (PCP) which was approved on
September 19, 2000. A draft Project Proforma (PP) has been prepared and its approval is a condition of
Credit Effectiveness. As agreed at Credit Negotiations, a revised Project hnplementation Plan (PIP) has
been submitted to IDA.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There is clearly consensus among Govemment officials, local NGOs, and donors regarding the
need for an expanded and improved post-literacy and continuing education program, in order to sustain the
significant investments already made in basic literacy. Some local NGOs have begun trying to integrate
more literacy activities into other program areas (microcredit or health programs, for example) and
vice-versa (adding more specific content to literacy programs). There is not, however, a great deal of local
knowledge or experience regarding how to create such a program.
Having already funded one project in Bangladesh in the non-formal education sector, IDA too has
a stake in seeing the benefits of basic literacy sustained and enhanced. Though it can be argued that IDA
itself has only limited recent experience in funding literacy-related projects, its long experience in
Bangladesh, extensive experience with training programs, multi-sectoral orientation, and global knowledge
enable it to help the Goverrnent put in place a sustainable post-literacy and continuing education program.
This project will require a high degree of collaboration among various actors (government agencies, private
sector, NGOs and other non-formal education providers) to be successful; the Bank's ability to be a
credible broker among various actors should be a particular asset. The Bank has informed other donors
about the proposed project.
- 16 -



Finally, support to this project provides an unusual learning opportunity for the Bank. The Bank
in recent decades has favored allocating resources to fonnal, primary education for children rather than
non-formal education partly out of cost-effectiveness considerations. Yet the problem of large numbers of
illiterate adults and school dropouts persists in many countries. If the project succeeds in developing a
number of tested, cost-effective approaches for improving functional literacy, these may be extremely
useful in other parts of the world. Bangladesh, with its strong commitment to non-formal education, strong
NGO sector, and an already high degree of cooperation among Government, donors, and third sector
institutions is a strong candidate for developing and improving upon such models. A good example of
Bangladesh's capacity for innovation is the Female Secondary School Assistance Project which, with IDA
support, was pioneering. Similar female assistance programs are now being replicated worldwide.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Economic and social returns. The benefits of literacy in terms of efficiency (high social returns),
equity (increase in the capacities of the poor relative to the rich) and intergenerational redistribution
(improvements in the health and education of children while reducing population growth) are well
established. Empirical literature on the benefits of education indicates a positive association between
education and economic growth and education and human development. Private returns to education in
Bangladesh are higher at lower levels of schooling. Findings using the Bangladesh Household and
Expenditure Survey (BHES) 1995/96 data indicate that the private returns to education are significant at
all levels of the educational system. The estimated rate of return is 37% for workers with incomplete
primary education, 45% for workers whose highest educational attainment is primary school, and 22% for
workers with higher education.
Education has a strong effect on improving personal and family welfare. The Bangladesh
Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 1996/97 is used to examine differences in welfare indicators
according to women's educational attainment. The higher a woman goes in the educational ladder, the
better-off she and her family score in most health and family welfare indicators. Women who obtain more
education are more likely to work in skilled occupations, have greater access to media services, have lower
fertility levels, have greater awareness of sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS, and their children are
less likely to die very young. Women with no education have a fertility rate of 3.93, compared to 3.27 for
women with some primary education, 3.0 for women who complete primary education, and 2.1 for women
who complete secondary education or beyond. Education delays childbearing especially for young women
between the ages of 15 and 19: the percentage of young uneducated women aged 15-19 who have begun
childbearing is 54% compared to 19% for women with secondary education or beyond. The under-five
mortality rate for children born to women with no education is twice (144) that of women with secondary
education or more (78). The percentage of fully vaccinated children born to women with no education is
50% compared to 70% for children whose mothers have secondary education or more.
Parents' education has the strongest effect on the educational attainment of their children,
especially when both parents are literate. Parents' education has an intergenerational effect, where the'
amount' of education children receive depends on the 'amount' their parents received. Heads of households
who have little or no education had themselves parents who had little or no education. On average, about
87% of fathers and 97% of mothers of current heads of households in the poorest income decile had no
- 17 -



education, compared to 33% of fathers and 60% of mothers of current heads of households in the richest
income decile. School enrollment rates for children in the 6-10 age group varies substantially by level of
poverty. About 70% of children from extreme poverty households are enrolled in school, compared to
almost 90% of children from non-poor households. The educational attainment gap widens as children
move up the educational system. The school attendance rate for children ages 11-14 from very poor
households is 49% compared to 71% for children from non-poor households (BBS, 1998).
Cost effectiveness. One of the major objectives of the post-literacy program is to significantly
contribute to the sustainability of benefits from basic literacy programs by increasing the functional literacy
skills of program participants. Research studies have shown that learners completing the basic literacy
course without a critical level of literacy skill may not be able to retain or improve skills on their own.
Once learners have reached a literacy level equivalent to a class 4 or 5 of primary school and are using
these skills in daily life, literacy skills are far less likely to be forgotten and the benefits of literacy (in terms
of employment, productivity, health practices, and attitudes) are far more likely to be sustained. The
project design focuses directly on these issues. The most cost effective approach was selected, in which
two post literacy activities are conducted in one center and structured instructions as well as regular
discussions meetings are organized by the resource person. In terms of continuing education delivery,
although it is less costly to deliver the program through the local administration, cost-utility ratios indicate
that delivery of continuing education through service providers, which would link graduates with
institutions providing credit facilities and income generating activities, is more cost-effective. For details
see Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Annual requirements for the proposed project will be on average US$11.90 million (US$71.60
million for six- fiscal years). The annual level of counterpart funding of the government for the proposed
project is estimated to be US$1.70 million. Based on these assumptions, it is estimated that the NFE sector
will require on average US$63 million per annum or US$380 million for the six- fiscal year period
(2000-06). Under the plausible scenario in terms of economic performance, the education sector would
receive US$9.60 billion of which the share of primary and non-formal education would be US$4.80
billion. The resource envelope for NFE during the project period (2000-06) is estimated to be Tk 21,016
million (US$384 million), which adequately covers resource requirements for the sector. The size of the
project (US$71.60 million) is less than 19% of the estimated available budget for the NFE sub-sector. If
the economy grows at an annual rate of 5.0% in real terms and government allocates 16.5% of the total
government expenditure, including external donors funds, to education and 4% of the education allocations
to the NFE sub-sector, the overall financial sustainability of the sub-sector will be ensured.
Incremental Annual Liability during and after the Project. It is estimated that the government
annual liability during the project period will be Tk 126.2 million on average. The total annual liability
will be at its maximum of Tk 202.0 million for the year 2001/02. The annual average level of counterpart
funds for the Project over the six years will be US$1.70 million. This is under 10% of NFE budget in
1998/99. The incremental annual liabilities "after" the end of the project is estimated at Tk 15.2 million,
which are negligible when compared to the projected total educational expenditures, thus ensuring the
government capacity to sustain this amount beyond the programn period.
- 18-



Cost Sharing. Literacy is regarded as a basic public good and it would not be justified to raise
money from beneficiary participants. The time provided for attending the classes represents a contribution
of the participants in terms of opportunity costs. The NFE-1 project co-financed by IDA does not involve
cost recovery in cash from the beneficiaries on the following grounds: (i) Government is committed to
provide free and compulsory primary education, (ii) The target group is the poorest segment of the society,
and (iii) The cash contribution that beneficiaries may be able to make would be insignificant and
necessitate cumbersome logistics and high administrative costs (World Bank, 1996). As in the basic
literacy program, there would be no cash contribution by the participants of the project. Local
communities will be required to provide mainly in-kind contributions such as arrangement for a meeting
space, including sitting mats.
3. Technical:
Technical soundness of training components. Literacy/post-literacy and continuing education
are understood to be essential elements for civil cohesion, improved health and nutrition prospects,
decreasing fertility rates, advancement of women, education of children, poverty reduction and increased
productivity, incomes and economic growth. Evidence is still scarce, however. And one of the reasons that
there is little evidence is because little research has been done on people who acquired their literacy skills
outside the school. All of the early research on people who gained their literacy in school did not use
literacy skill level as a factor in their analysis, and so "years of schooling" appeared to be the factor that
predicted the gains. Over the last few years, Harvard University has been looking at literacy skills and
communications skills and has published convincing evidence that literacy skill level and a set of
communications skills that develop out of learning literacy are the predictors of the gains, at least for health
and family planning indicators. The level of these skills, not how they were learned, leads to the gains.
And so improving literacy outside of school leads to the same gains.
In addition, research shows that the participation in post-literacy activities has an impact on
reading, writing and math skills. What post-literacy activities do is allow adults who have acquired some
skill in literacy classes or in primary school to practice the use of those skills while focused on areas of
content important to the three roles of worker, parent and citizen. As they spend more time in these
activities, they increase their reading, writing and numeracy skills and increase both their vocabulary and
the conceptual understanding of development topics that underlie that vocabulary. Post-literacy efforts
have an impact on the gains we seek, that is improving on the investment made in both literacy classes and
formal school.
A technical issue that requires particular attention is related to drop-out, the biggest risk in any
literacy effort (indeed any educational effort), because drop-out represents a wastage of resources. The
second risk is low achievement, resulting in learners who will not have reached a level of literacy sufficient
to maintain their skills over time. Therefore, careful attention will be paid to those features of program
design and implementation which cause drop-out and low achievement, and these features are different at
different phases of the literacy effort. At the basic level, the most critical components are curriculum and
teaching, and the mechanics of sequencing the learning is most important. In post-literacy, curriculum is
still the most important, but the relevance of the content to learners' lives takes precedence over mechanics
at this level. At the continuing education level, delivery and content of the curriculum become the most
critical factors, so that learners can access the educational activities that are of primary importance to their
lives. The change of critical factors from level to level means that a "one course fits all" methodology
across all three of the phases and across the whole country will also result in high drop-outs and low
achievement. Though far more technically demanding, the development of a menu of content modules is
also far more likely to be responsive to leamers' demand.
- 19-



Ultimately, however, the success of the project will rest on the quality of the materials and training
that are developed for post-literacy and continuing education. Building adequate time and processes for
drafting, field-testing, piloting, getting feedback from learners and teachers, revising and reprinting of
curriculum materials and teachers' guides will be critical. The Technical Support Services Unit (TSSU)
of the DNFE will conduct research, training and materials development for the post-literacy and continuing
education programs. NGOs and other non-formal education providers will also contribute to these tasks.
Linking neo-literates to further opportunities. Another technical issue is how best to link basic
literacy graduates with post-literacy options and post-literacy graduates with continuing education
opportunities (matching demand and supply). Clearly learner interests and preferences must drive the
design of courses and activities to be offered; however, learners must also be informed of the existence and
schedules of courses and options in order to participate. To help solve the challenges of poor quality,
irrelevance and inaccessibility of continuing education activities for neo-literates, the project will support:
(a) village-based centers where men and women come to improve their literacy, technical, and/or life skills,
to learn about accessible opportunities for participation in other social and economic development
activities, and to use reading materials and other media available at the center; (b) strengthen and develop
courses and other activities to be offered at those centers and elsewhere; and (c) link learners at the centers
with opportunities for continuing education, credit, employment, services, and other chances to improve
their lives.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
DNFE will be the agency responsible for the execution of the project.
4.2 Project management:
The two overriding institutional issues are: (a) the nature of collaboration between DNFE, NGOs
and other non-formal education providers and other agencies in development and implementation of the
post-literacy and continuing education models; and (b) the technical and managerial capacity of the DNFE
itself. With regard to the first issue, the project design calls for various organizations to collaborate in
policy formulation, program design and management, and provision of instruction and support to learners.
They will work together to develop a national framework for non-formal education, to offer a variety of
new programs and courses, and to link learners with other learning and economic opportunities. The
DNFE will set up a process for meaningful inclusion of the NGOs and other non-formal education
providers in materials development so that their expertise in functional knowledge and skills areas can be
used for constructing high-quality post-literacy and continuing education materials. It is important for
NGOs and other non-formal education providers also to have ownership in what they are implementing,
and for the expertise they gain through implementation to infonn the revision of materials on an ongoing
basis.
- 20 -



With regard to the DNFE, both technical capacity (to oversee materials development, for example)
and managerial/administrative/monitoring capacity will be strengthened so that the project is undertaken
successfully. To help DNFE staff and others in the sector improve their technical skills over the long term,
the project will help strengthen the Technical Support Services Unit, which eventually could become the
nucleus of the Academy of Non-formal Education under consideration by PMED. The project will help the
DNFE strengthen its administrative, financial, information, and monitoring systems so that they support the
management of enhanced DNFE activities. It will help project staff improve financial management,
procurement of goods and services, deployment of personnel, delivery of higher quality training, and
effective use of the MIS and of the monitoring and evaluation system.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement Issues: The draft Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) submitted to the
Government in June 2000, stated that procurement is a generic problem in Bangladesh. The CPAR
identified a series of factors accounting for procurement problems in the country that include: poor
advertisement, short bidding period, poor specifications and bidding documents, vague evaluation criteria,
multiple evaluation committees, award of contract through lottery, negotiation with all bidders, lack of
professional competence, corrupt practices and pressure from special interest groups and collective
bargaining agencies.
All procurement under the project will be handled by PIMU, DNFE that has not yet been
established. There will be one Deputy Director and one Assistant Director of Procurement in PIMU. Since
PIMU will be under DNFE, IDA carried out an assessment of the procurement capacity of DNFE. As part
of the assessment IDA used the Bank's questionnaire and reviewed the record of the institution in handling
procurement with specific relevance to the application of the Bank's written rules and procedures in
practice. Based on the review, there are substantial risks associated with procurement. To mitigate these
risks, DNFE has set up a Procurement Core Team (PCT) headed by the Director (Administration &
Finance), who will be responsible for all procurement under the project. Also, the relevant staff including
PCT members have been given two short training courses (one on procurement of goods and one on
selection of consultants), and a procurement consultant has been appointed to assist DNFE in project
preparation. During project implementation, PIMU will have one Deputy Director and one Assistant
Director of Procurement. In addition, one Procurement Consultant will assist PIMU in procurement
matters.
Annex 6 describes a time-bound action plan for strengthening further the procurement management
capacity and for completing tasks as readiness for implementation of the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Risks. The main financial management risk is unsatisfactory internal
controls over expenditures incurred by smaller NGOs and other non-formal education providers which may
be involved in the implementation of project activities. To mitigate the above risk, GOB will review the
financial and internal control position while selecting the NGO services. The Project Financial
Management Manual specified formats for submission of the statements of receipts and expenditures by the
concerned NGOs and other non-formal education providers which will be a tool for monitoring their
receipts and expenditures. To ensure financial accountability by the project, the Bank's procurement
guidelines shall be followed. SOE reviews will be conducted during the project supervision. DNFE's field
level coordinators will review the expenditures made by the NGOs and other non-formal education
providers. In addition, the project expenditures will be subject to review as a part of independent financial
and performance audits.
- 21 -



Flow of Funds and Banking Arrangements. For the purpose of utilization of IDA and SDC funds,
there will be two separate Special Accounts in convertible Taka to be opened in a commnercial bank,
acceptable to IDA and SDC. About four months estimated expenditure will be deposited to these accounts
by IDA and SDC. PIMU will have access to these accounts.
Financial Management Capacity. DNFE's current capacity is not yet adequate to operate a modem
project financial management system. To address existing weaknesses, a financial management manual
and a computerized accounting system is developed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management
system, commensurate with the size and scope of the project, is established. In addition, the following
measures will be taken:
Satisfactory staffing and training. Financial functions will be staffed by suitably qualified accounts
professionals. The entire financial staff will be trained in the operation of the computerized financial
management system. Project management and financial staff will be sensitized to the importance of
financial management for effective project management.
Analysis offinancial information and its use as a decision-making tooL Financial reports which provide
timely, relevant and accurate infonnation on the financial performance of the project will be prepared. The
accounting system will ensure classification and compilation/analysis of accounting data in a manner that
provides useful and timely information for project monitoring and decision-making.
Transparency ofproject operations and establishment of clear financial policies and procedures.
Concemed GOB ministries and departments and donors will be provided with clear, simple, user-friendly,
and consistent financial information about the project's performance and financial status.
Satisfactory audit arrangements including timely submission of audit reports and certification of project
financial statements adopting acceptable auditing standards will be ensured.
Linking of physical progress with financial progress will be ascertained.
A simple and effective monitoring mechanism will be introduced to ensure effective monitoring of a large
number of widely dispersed entities to be involved in project implementation.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project does not provide for construction of any kind. To the extent that environmental and
health related messages are incorporated into post-literacy and continuing education materials and courses,
the project may well have a positive effect on the environment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
- 22 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project addresses the Bank's overall goal in Bangladesh of reducing poverty, and poverty
alleviation improves social conditions and the quality of life. Illiteracy is highly associated with poverty
prevalence. Recent statistics indicate that the national literacy rate for the population age 15 years or
above is only 51% (1997), with the literacy rate varying significantly by gender, place of residence,
division, and household's landholdings size. At the national level, two thirds of the illiterate live in poverty
(40 million) and half of them live in extreme poverty (21 million). This is in contrast with lower poverty
headcount indices for people with primary or secondary education. At the national level only 7% of the
population with secondary education or more is below the lower poverty line (World Bank, 1998).
Extreme poverty prevalence is higher for households headed by adults who are illiterate, landless,
widowed, divorced, or disabled. About 83% of heads of household in the poorest income decile have never
attended school, compared to only 17% of heads of households in the richest decile. For those heads of
household who have attended school, about 43% usually dropped-out before reaching grade 4, compared to
only 6% for heads of household in the richest income decile. Not surprisingly, the percentage of heads of
household who know "how to read a letter" is only 13% for those in the poorest decile, compared to 82%
for those in the richest decile.
When poverty prevalence is high, household vulnerability is usually high. Household vulnerability
is typically higher for households headed by unskilled adults who are landless and have little or no savings.
T-he precarious conditions under which the poor and vulnerable live makes bouts with illnesses frequent and
their effects very serious on the welfare of the household. Periodic illnesses erode earnings and savings,
leaving the household even more vulnerable to meet basic needs expenses. A coping mechanism frequently
used under these adverse circumstances is to send children to work in or outside the household.
Given the strong correlation between poverty and illiteracy in Bangladesh, the project's focus on
neo-literates means that project benefits are naturally targeted toward the poorer segment of the population.
The project is aimed at improving the provision of post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates so
that they can use their skills to take action to increase their incomes, improve their family's welfare, and
participate fully as citizens. The majority of project beneficiaries belong to groups with high poverty and
household vulnerability level. As a result of their participation, many of the learners will move on to
further training and to better employment or better practices in their current occupations, including
farming. Many will improve their skills as family members and community members.
Expected social benefits include: (a) better opportunities and information about, access to, and
ability to engage in employment and income-generation activities for course participants; (b) productivity
gains; (c) empowered learners, especially women, achieving a higher status in the society; (d) improved
health practices among participants and families; (e) higher commitment to children's education; (f)
improved knowledge of rights and responsibilities of citizenship, and ability to act on that knowledge; and
(g) confidence to join with others in forming self-help and related organizations without external assistance.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 23 -



The primary beneficiaries of the project will be basic literacy course completers, half of them
women. While these groups will be involved in the project primarily as learners (consumers), their
expressed interests and preferences will help shape choices regarding the development of course modalities
and materials, as well as decisions regarding what models to disseminate on a wider scale.
Potential beneficiaries will have two kinds of opportunities to voice their needs and interests. First,
the launching of activities within a Division will include surveys of those attending post-literacy courses to
determine what skills they would like to learn and what opportunities they would like to seek. These
studies will also assess local demand for skills of the kind that neo literates might acquire; and existing
continuing education and skills training programs. This information will help the project detect the gaps
between neo-literates' needs for skills and opportunities for them to acquire those skills. Second, once
activities are underway, potential beneficiaries will vote with their feet. They will demand courses and pick
up on opportunities that interest them and ignore those that do not. The project is designed to be responsive
to these indicators of relevance and to adjust accordingly with different offerings.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
PMED and DNFE, in collaboration with non-governmental organizations and other stakeholders,
will establish the national policy framework for non-formnal education. NGOs and other non-formal
education providers will participate in decisions about program offerings and design. They will manage
post-literacy and continuing education programs, and their trainers will provide the courses. Many NGOs
have proven their ability to do these tasks. Most of the major NGOs with some experience in post-literacy
and skills training, such as BRAC and Dhaka Ahsania Mission, are already collaborating with DNFE.
Others will need support. More than 450 NGOs are currently implementing basic literacy activities
together with DNFE. Other stakeholders include ministries such as Health, Agriculture and Labor, whose
programs may offer continuing education opportunities; private voluntary organizations and community
based organizations which conduct literacy programs as well as those who have skills training and income
generation programs; private vocational skill training institutes which offer training opportunities and
would have a larger client base if the system produces new literates with higher literacy competency levels;
and local governments that may be involved in coordinating or facilitating literacy and continuing education
training efforts (and/or information about them) and derive popular support from the provision of programs
that meet the needs of its citizens.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Various institutional arrangements will secure the achievement of its social development
outcomes. Examples include: (a) the preparation of a perspective plan spelling out the long term vision for
non-formal education developed through a participatory process involving all key stakeholders, including at
the decentralized level; (b) advocacy and dissemination workshops organized at national, divisional,
district, upazila, and union on what kinds of non-formal education works and what does not; (c) community
members and potential participants receiving information through social mobilization, Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) materials and the use of print and electronic media such as radio,
television, audio-cassettes, and video-films; (d) contracts with NGOs and other non-formal education
providers that have worked in the basic literacy program to provide post-literacy teachers; and (e)
continuing education centers where village members will form a Center Management Committee to guide
and direct the center's development and program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Monitoring and evaluation activities will comprise several modalities, among them: survey
- 24 -



assessments of learners improvement in economic status and quality of living and sample based in-depth
studies on quality aspects of program and impact. The reduction of the population living in poverty will be
monitored via Census data, household expenditure surveys, demographic and health surveys and sector
work. Better health practices, increased chances of better employment, productivity gains, improved
awareness and attitudes will be monitored via education and health statistics, the project's mid-term
evaluation, stakeholders surveys, NGOs studies, longitudinal studies which will include post-literacy and
continuing education participants, and the project completion report.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
/ ~~~~~poIkVe~  ~:--5a- AppricablItt-.y  ,'>,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will contribute significantly to the sustainability of benefits from basic literacy
programs by increasing the functional literacy skills of program participants. Once leamers have reached a
higher literacy level (similar, say, to a class 4 or 5 primary school level) and are using these skills in daily
life, literacy skills are far less likely to be forgotten and the benefits of literacy (in terms of employment,
productivity, health practices, and attitudes) are far more likely to be sustained.
The second issue relating to sustainability is of continuance of the post-literacy and continuing
education programs themselves after project completion. Given the projected numbers of basic literacy
course completers over the next ten years and the persistence of some measure of school dropout, the
Government may continue to foster post-literacy and continuing education opportunities, including
financing them directly.
Even if the Government were unable or unwilling to continue a leadership role in the sector,
however, the proposed project's heavy reliance on NGO and private sector participation in the development,
piloting, and implementation of post-literacy and continuing education programs should contribute towards
the sustainability of project innovations. To the extent that the project is able to develop ownership of
successful models of post-literacy and continuing education that integrate the improvement of literacy skills
with other content relevant to leamers interests, skills, and opportunities, it is likely that participating
NGOs and other non-formal education providers will adopt these improved models into their own ongoing
- 25 -



practice, independent of continued government financing. In addition, the involvement of local people as
members of the CEC will contribute to the sustainability of the programs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Ritsk              A    RiskfRating!           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Low demand                                  N         Course/activity offerings will be demand-driven;
information and communications strategies will
be given particular emphasis and support in the
project Mechanisms to involve communities in
the organization and support of project
activities.
Insufficient support among stakeholders     M         Participatory preparation and implementation
for enhanced NFE system                               process through extensive consultations,
advocacy and dissemination activities included
in the project. 450 NGOs already collaborate
with DNFE programs.
High learner dropout and low                M         Project will offer range of content areas to better
achievement                                           meet learner needs. Care will be exercised in
piloting courses and testing materials through
action research activities, avoid "one course fits
all" methodology, and work with experienced
service providers.
From Components to Outputs
Low DNFE capacity (staffing, technical      S         Project includes substantial capacity-building
knowledge, managerial ability)                        measures. Technical knowledge upgrade;
increased staffing at field level; training of staff
and implementing NGOs and other non-formal
education providers; improved financial
management and procurement systems.
Low participation/ownership of              M         Participation, information sharing and
NGOs/private sector                                   ownership will be built into the project from the
outset. Capacity of smaller NGOs and other
non-fornal education providers to be improved.
Insufficient funding levels/slow release of  N        Project is well within funding capacity; strong
funds                                                 government support is also minimizing factor.
- 26 -



Overall Risk Rating                         5         Given some of the piloting approaches and the
participation of different stakeholders, project
design and/or reallocation of resources will be
flexible enough to accommodate changes.
Programs will be reviewed on a semi-annual/
annual basis and overall flexibility during
project implementation is being built into the
project design. Continued GOB commitment
and record on ongoing basic literacy activities
lessens overall risk.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following are conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
1. The Project Proforma for carrying out the project has been approved by GOB;
2. Key staff for the Project Implementation Management Unit have been appointed. Key staff are the
Project Director, Deputy Director (Procurement, Monitoring and Reporting), Deputy Director (Finance
and Administration), Assistant Director (Procurement), and Accounts Officer.
3. All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Swiss Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of the IDA Development Credit Agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The project will be carried out in accordance with the Implementation Program in Schedule 4 to the
DCA.
A financial management system, including records and accounts, will be maintained, and financial
statements, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the project, will be
prepared in a fornat acceptable to IDA. GOB will continue to strengthen the project financial management
system in accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to IDA.
For withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant, two separate special accounts
will be opened.
Procurement under the project will be handled by PIMU with the support of DNFE. For
procurement of goods, financed in part or in whole from IDA funds, the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
shall apply. For consultants' services financed in part or in whole from IDA funds, the Consultants
Guidelines shall apply.
NGOs and other non-formal education providers will be selected and appointed in accordance with
criteria and procedures satisfactory to IDA. Such criteria and procedures, which were accepted at
Negotiations, are set forth in Attachment 1 to Annex 6.
- 27 -



For procurement of services including a part of local training financed under a grant from the SDC
administered by the Bank, the Bank's Guidelines shall apply.
Adequate policies and procedures will be maintained to enable the project to be monitored on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to IDA, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of its objectives. A mid-term review of the project will be carried out by July 31, 2003.
DNFE and PIMU will furnish to IDA no later than six months from the end of the fiscal year,
audited financial statements from the independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Two performance audits of
the Project will be carried out, the first covering a period of two and one-half years from the Effective Date,
and the second covering the next following period ending March 31, 2005.
PMED and DNFE will (a) not later than August 31 2001, start the development of the National
Framework towards preparation of a perspective plan with a long term vision by August 31, 2003; (b) not
later than December 31, 2002, carry out studies on the desirability and feasibility of equivalency programs
in Bangladesh; (c) not later than June 30, 2002, develop an advocacy and dissemination plan in respect of
the National Framework, and thereafter conduct advocacy and dissemination training and workshops at the
national, district, upazila and union levels on a regular basis; and (d) from time to time and as dictated by
the needs of the Project, develop and disseminate IEC materials and conduct a media campaign.
DNFE will: (a) select post-literacy models, identify post-literacy locations, contract the services of
NGOs and other non-formal education providers in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to
the Association, train them and cause them to implement post-literacy training activities; (b) from time to
time and as dictated by the needs of the Project, establish CECs and CMCs, and employ and train Center
Facilitators; (c) not later than June 30, 2001, establish Divisional Teams for purposes of supporting NGOs
and other non-formal education providers in their task of improving, promoting and providing post-literacy
and continuing education services; (d) not later than July 31, 2001, contract the services of upazila
program organizers for purposes of linking leamers with continuing education, credit and employment
opportunities; (e) in collaboration with the contracted NGOs and other non-formal education service
providers, implement continuing education activities in the targeted upazilas and villages; and (f) keep
PIMU fully staffed throughout the Project implementation period.
DNFE and PIMU will: (a) be responsible for the financial management, procurement, logistics,
reporting to the Association on the project progress, and coordinating with the other PMED line
departments; (b) (i)   prepare annual plans of operation and supervise its effective implementation; (ii)
prepare annual budgets, procurement plans and progress reports; (iii) ensure the collection of field
expenditure vouchers and prepare statements of expenditure (SOEs) and Project Management Reports to
enable the timely replenishment of funds, auditing of the Project expenses and submission of the audited
statements to the Association; (iv) support proper use of the Management Information System (MIS) and
effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities; and (v) assist in the organization of
seminars/workshops relevant to the Project; and (c) develop plans satisfactory to the Association to
improve staff capacity and provide staff training.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
- 28 -



2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
AnaIMaria *ia/  Y. Jim  lFrede          Temple
team Lead&-J                     Sector Manager                    Cntry   nager
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
l'S 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101!i MOE W11 .   Wj
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Siector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission}
Poverty alleviation by     *  Reduction of population    *  Census data           *  Poverty is decreased
promoting faster and more     living in poverty        *  Household Expenditure      through programs and
equitable human development                               Surveys                    project which assist the
*  Demographic and           poor
Health Surveys         *  GOB continues adheres
*  ESW                       to poverty alleviation
goals of Fifth Plan
*  GOB continues its
strong support for the
social sectors
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increase in functional       *  Increased number of    * Education statistics     *  GOB commitment to
application of literacy skills by  beneficiaries achieving    *  Mid-term evaluation  NFE remains firm
providing post-literacy and     higher literacy        *  Post-literacy           *  Improved NFE system
continuing education to        competency levels: (a)     achievement test           and programs lead to
neo-literates through a more    1.65 million basic     *  Stakeholders surveys       faster and more
comprehensive and enhanced     literacy completers     *  Longitudinal study         equitable human
system of non-formal           going on to post-literacy  (enhanced current tracer   development
education.                     and continuing             study) to include       *  GOB relationship with
education; and (b)        post-literacy/continuing   other stakeholders is
post-literacy completers  ed. beneficiaries          maintained
demonstrating higher   *  Implementation
level of competency       Completion Report
*  Enhanced system of        (ICR)
NFE in the country
* Better health practices,
increased chances of
better employment,
productivity gains,
improved awareness and
attitudes
- 30 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Promoting enhanced and     *National framework of NFE  *PMED/DNFE report        *Adequate support among
comprehensive NFE system    established and the                                  stakeholders for enhanced
developed and implemented.   equivalency studies     *IDA/SDC supervision        NFE mission
completed                 mission reports
oComprehensive perspective                           oEffective dissemination of
plan developed           oMid-term and end-of-project  enhanced NFE system
oAdvocacy and dissemination  evaluation studies
plans developed and
implemented              *ICR
Post-literacy program      *Increased number of NGOs  oMonitoring reports from  *Effective models for
implemented                 and other non-formal      implementers and DNFE      post-literacy program
education providers                                  implementation
implementing post-literacy   *Post-literacy achievement
activities using new models,  tests                 *NGO capacity for
with 1.65 million leamers                           implementing quality
*Education statistics      post-literacy program
oPre-and post-leamers'
achievement in literacy and  oLongitudinal studies  oDemand for post-literacy
numeracy skills                                      activities
*IDA/SDC supervision
mission reports          eAppropriate beneficiary
targeting
oMid-term and end-of-project
evaluation studies       *Low learner dropout
*ICR                      *Acceptable achievement
Continuing education       *6,900 Continuing Education oMonitoring reports from  oDemand for CE activities
programs established and    Centers (CECs)            implementers and DNFE
implemented                *Ten quality courses and                             *Appropriate beneficiary
training, reflecting the  oEducation and labor market  targeting
demand of learners, provided statistics
by service providers reaching                       oDemand and supply match
1.65 million leamers     *Longitudinal studies
*Ten quality course materials
developed
- 31 -



*Increased number and      *  IDA/SDC supervision     *  Service providers and
quality of service provider  mission reports            other stakeholders'
capacity building activities                           willingness to collaborate
*CECs linked to CE service   * Mid-term and
providers and other          end-of-project evaluation  *  Satisfactory achievement
opportunities such as credits    studies
*Improved participants' skills                        *  Opportunities to apply the
level, employment and     *  ICR                       acquired skills
economic status, and quality
of living
Capacity of PMED/DNFE and *PIMU established and in    *PMED/DNFE progress        *  Sufficient support among
other stakeholders to design    operation             reports                      stakeholders for enhanced
and implement post-literacy                                                         NFE system
and continuing education   *Set up of new procedures    eFocused capacity and system
programs increased          and mechanisms to         analysis studies (baseline  *  Training staff remaining
strengthen participation and   and follow-up)          in post
collaboration among
different stakeholders   *IDA/SDC supervision       *  Effective coordinator of
mission reports              project activities
*Sound financial management
and procurement systems    oMid-term and end-of-project
developed                 evaluation studies
*Eight levels of professional  oICR
training opportunities
reaching 28,500 current and
new DNFE and NGOs and
other non-formal education
providers staff, after a
completion of training needs
assessment
*Enhanced M&E system with
an effective information flow
mechanism developed, and
assessments and studies
completed.
- 32 -



-liehs ~t~Q~.t::tW.             f*~atos            MoWnitoring & Evluation -6r%ca A
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Promoting enhanced and  US$1.40 million          *DNFE progress reports     *PMED/DNFE capacity
comprehensive NFE system                                                        (staffing, technical
*Financial management      knowledge, managerial
(i) establish National                                progress reports          ability)
Framework for NFE
*Audit reports            * Strong participation/
(ii) develop and implement                                                      ownership of NGOs and
advocacy and dissemination                           *IDA/SDC supervision       other non-formal education
plans of the comprehensive                            mission reports           providers, private sector and
NFE system                                                                      other government agencies
oMid-term and end-of-project
evaluation studies
*ICR
2. Supporting Post-literacy  US$14.20 million       *Monitoring reports from   *DNFE capacity to manage
Implementation                                        implementers and DNFE     the implementation
*Financial management     *Participation and capacity of
reports                   NGOs and other non-formal
education providers/private
*Audit reports             sector
*IDA/SDC supervision
mission reports
*Mid-term and end-of-project
evaluation studies
*1CR
3. Establishing Continuing  US$50.60 million        *Monitoring reports from   *Participation/ownership of
Education                                             implementers and DNFE     NGOs and other non-formal
education providers/private
(i) establish Continuing                            *Financial management       sector/ other government
Education Centers in targeted                        reports                    agencies
areas
*Audit reports
(ii) develop courses and
services                                            *IDA/SDC supervision
mission reports
(iii) establish linkages
between learners and services                       *Mid-term and end-of-project
evaluation studies
- ICR
- 33 -



4. Strengthening           US$5.40 million           *DNFE progress reports     *Participation/ownership of
Institutional Capacity                                                           NGOs and other non-formal
*Financial management      education providers/private
(i) strengthen the DNFE's                             reports                    sector/ other government
administrative, financial,                                                       agencies
information and monitoring                           *Disbursement and
systems and mechanisms for                            procurement reports
increasing participation and
collaboration among                                  *Capacity and system analysis
stakeholders (PMED, DNFE,                             studies (baseline and
NGOs, PVOs, CBOs, local                                follow-up)
government, private sector)
*IDA/SDC supervision
(ii) support DNFE staff in                            mission reports
their professional development
eMid-term and end-of-project
evaluation studies
- 1CR
-34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Bangladesh is a country of about 128 million people, with four-fifths of the population living in
rural areas. In 1999, the average GNP per capita was US$370. Although the incidence of poverty has
improved during the 1990s, about one half of the population lives in poverty and one third lives in extreme
poverty. Poverty is strongly correlated with the level of education. The level of illiteracy among the 15+
age group is very high at about 49% (1997). According to PMED, the level of illiteracy was 42% in 1999.
The Government has placed high priority on education, and has made substantial progress over the last 20
years. Total public expenditure on education increased from 1.5% in 1980 to 2.7% of GDP in 1998. The
gross primary enrollment rate stands at about 100% (slightly below that of South Asia) and about 47% of
primary students are female.
Given the still overwhelming number of illiterates and the breadth of poverty in the country,
non-formal and specifically literacy education, has also been a high priority in Bangladesh. There is a
national consensus on providing educational opportunities for the excluded and the unreached populations,
namely those who did not complete formal education (due to reasons such as poverty and necessity to
work), and those who require a more flexible system (working children and adults). The Government is
currently supporting substantial investments aimed at increasing basic literacy among young adults and
hard-to-reach children. This project responds to the Government request for assistance to build on the
foundation established under the current non-formal education projects, and to further develop the
non-formal education system in Bangladesh.
The main development objective of the project is to increase the functional application of literacy
skills by providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates through a more comprehensive
and enhanced system of non-formal education. The project is aimed at improving the provision of
post-literacy and continuing education to neo literates so that they can consolidate and use their literacy
skills to take action and to increase their incomes, improve their family's welfare, and participate fully as
citizens. The project will: (a) support the DNFE in establishing and implementing strategies for a
comprehensive and enhanced system of non-formal education; (b) support the implementation of a
post-literacy program; (c) support the establishment of continuing education programs; and (d) strengthen
institutional capacity among DNFE and other non-formal education stakeholders. About 1.6 million
neo-literates are expected to benefit from post-literacy activities and continuing education activities.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.40 million
Promoting Enhanced and Comprehensive Non-formal Education
Current Situation. At this stage in the development of the Directorate of Non-Fonnal Education
(DNFE) programs, it is necessary to start focusing attention on the provision of educational opportunities
for neo-literates to acquire functional knowledge and skills, as well as literacy skills, and on the
sustainability of current investments in basic literacy training. Returns on investment in basic literacy
under the ongoing non-formal education (NFE) projects would benefit from further improvements in
curriculum, teacher training and monitoring. However, even with improvements in basic literacy,
achievement through a basic literacy course is not enough for leamers to maintain their literacy skills over
an extended period of time without additional instruction. Every literacy program needs effective
- 35 -



post-literacy and continuing education services to help learners retain, improve and use the basic literacy
skills, and to acquire deeper functional knowledge. In other words, an enhanced vision for non-formal
education in Bangladesh will include opportunities for all three levels: basic, post-literacy and continuing
education.
The vision must include a range of opportunities for post-literacy and continuing education that are
diverse enough to serve the multitude of different workers, parents, and citizens in the country. A
high-quality, comprehensive system will serve all of the development efforts of the country, by helping
people acquire a strong foundation of skills, knowledge and empowerment for taking action in, say,
agriculture, health, and social justice. Also needed is a vision of how such a comprehensive education
system will evolve over time. Clearly over the medium term, the need for large-scale investments in basic
literacy should decline, whereas the need for post-literacy and continuing education opportunities will grow.
Over the longer term, there will probably be a continuing need for a small core of well-targeted literacy and
post-literacy programs, and a growing demand for a range of continuing education programs. How these
shifting needs and priorities will be managed in institutional terms also needs to be addressed.
Improvements. The project will seek to enhance the NFE sector by establishing a National
Framework and launching advocacy and dissemination activities at different levels. It will strengthen and,
if necessary, develop procedures and linkages by which DNFE will work collaboratively with other
stakeholders in the NFE sector to design and implement high-quality NFE programs.
Outcomes. The activities and interventions under the first component will result in the following
outcomes: (a) a National Framework on which to base the planning, development, organization and
implementation of the new NFE system; (b) a common understanding and a consensus about an enhanced
and comprehensive system of NFE among the stakeholders; (c) well established and functional linkages
among all relevant individuals, groups and organizations; (d) a perspective plan for the nation with a
long-term vision; and (f) a system of advocacy and dissemination.
Sub-component 1.1: National Framework
Towards the goal of strengthening the NFE sector, the project will support collaboration between
the Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED)/DNFE and other stakeholders in the sector to put in
place a National Framework with clear articulation of the concepts of literacy, post-literacy and continuing
education defined in the context of Bangladesh. The framework will define how literacy and continuing
education programs would be integrated with other development initiatives. In particular, linkages between
agencies and organizations, both government and non-government, involved in social services, economic
sector and development programs will be made clear. The National Framework will define priority target
groups that will receive post-literacy and continuing education, and indicate the mode of delivery and
partnership as well as implementation arrangements.
The project will also support studies on the desirability and feasibility of equivalency programs
that allow people to earn academic credentials based on knowledge and experience acquired through
non-formal programs.
The government recognizes that NFE must be seen in a long-term perspective as part of an overall
framework for national development. In the context of the preparation of GOB's Sixth Five-Year Plan
(2002-2007), the project will finance the preparation of a perspective plan spelling out the long term vision
for non-formal education. The plan will be developed through a participatory process involving all key
stakeholders. Similar participatory planning exercises will be carried out also at the decentralized level.
- 36 -



Technological and social changes will demand that periodic adjustments take place based on knowledge
generated through research, beneficiary assessments and participatory processes.
Implementation. The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will guide and lead the development
of the proposed National Framework. It will supervise the work of consultants and study teams in the
preparation of the National Framework. It will also draw on wider regional and international experience in
non-formal education development. Therefore, provision has been made for learning from regional and
international experiences for national level personnel through study visits of successful NFE systems.
In the process of establishing an appropriate National Framework for NFE, post-literacy and
continuing education models from other countries will be assessed to determine their replicability, relevance
and appropriateness for Bangladesh. National policies for agriculture, trade and industry, tourism etc. will
be examined to identify future labor requirements. Also, the labor market in different parts of the country
will be surveyed to determine the levels of manpower skills, percent of population joining the labor market,
labor demand, existing resources and resource potential, and existing institutions offering income
generating programs.
Sub-component 1.2: Advocacy and Dissemination
Any new initiative/system requires time and effort for its acceptance and internalization. The
principal focus of the advocacy and dissemination sub-component will be to advocate the concepts,
definitions, framework, strategies, principles and initiatives proposed under the National Framework, so
that the enhanced and comprehensive system of NFE is widely understood and recognized. Popular
participation of people, nation builders, political leaders and community workers in non-formal education
has raised awareness and enthusiasm about literacy and its value. This must be sustained. Building from
that base, the project will undertake a number of advocacy and dissemination measures to create an
environment, conducive to the growth and implementation of an enhanced and comprehensive system of
NFE.
DNFE has developed a variety of publicity materials for awareness building. The effectiveness of
the various communication programs and materials prepared by government and other organizations
involved in NFE to reach the target populations and their impact on the literacy behavior of leamers will be
assessed in the context of post-literacy and continuing education. Based on the experience of the current
communication programs, DNFE staff will develop a concrete advocacy and dissemination plan.
Advocacy and dissemination workshops will be organized at national, divisional, district, upazila, and
union levels. National intellectuals, academics and experts will debate on the issues and ideas relating to
NFE and build consensus on vision and strategies for the implementation of the National Framework
including the Perspective Plan. Practitioners will share through divisional, district, upazila and union level
seminars, workshops and meetings on what works and what does not. Community members and potential
participants will be informed and educated through social mobilization, Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) materials and the use of print and electronic media such as radio, television,
audio-cassettes, and video-films.
Implementation. The project will finance national and division-level workshops, studies, study
tours, and collaborative meetings with PMED, DNFE and other stakeholders in the non-formal education
sector. As part of advocacy and dissemination, the project will finance production and distribution of IEC
materials, participatory meetings, campaigns, fairs, cultural activities, development of TV serials and other
audio-visual materials, etc. Community mobilization will be an entry point for the conduct of post-literacy
and continuing education programs. The DNFE will provide program orientation training to concerned
- 37 -



officials at divisional, district, upazila and union levels on a regular basis in order to mobilize their support
for the effective implementation of the National Framework and the project.
Project Component 2 - US$14.20 million
Supporting Post-literacy Implementation
Current situation. Learners completing a basic literacy course without a critical level of literacy
skill (equivalent to about grade level 2 or 3) may not be able to retain or improve skills on their own. Yet
neither the government nor the non-government organizations (NGOs) in Bangladesh have so far been able
to implement an effective and comprehensive post-literacy program designed as a high-quality follow-up to
basic literacy. As originally designed, the DNFE's model was to combine four or five basic literacy centers
into one post-literacy center, run by one teacher. The teachers main role was to provide assistance as
needed to individual readers, rather than to provide organized and sequenced instruction. This model
proved to be inconvenient for many neo-literates, and many needed further instruction as well as
opportunities to read.
At the Identification stage of this project, the PMED and IDA had anticipated that the project
would pilot post-literacy training models. In the intervening year, however, such piloting has been
organized by the DNFE. In 1999, with support from SIDA and NORAD, the DNFE developed an activity
to design more effective models of post-literacy courses. The DNFE has selected 23 NGOs to pilot models.
These pilots were launched in February 2000. The DNFE plans for their wide-scale implementation to
begin in 200 1. Thus, this project will not initiate another pilot activity; instead it will build upon the work
already underway by the DNFE.
Improvements. The purpose of this component is to provide additional literacy skills training to
individuals who have completed the basic literacy course offered by DNFE and have basic literacy skills.
The project will support the implementation of successful models of post-literacy courses piloted by the
DNFE. Post-literacy training will help individuals consolidate their reading, writing and math skills and
begin to apply those skills to practical life situations, such as work, farming, participation in village affairs,
and parenting.
Each pilot will provide literacy and math skills training integrated into practical life-oriented
technical skills training. Based on the models that the DNFE has determined are the best of those piloted,
the project will implement three or four-month post-literacy courses. Depending on the models selected, a
course might include sequential lessons, supported reading time, games, visits from local skills trainers, and
other activities.
The DNFE will identify villages where the post-literacy courses would be implemented. It will
contract with NGOs and other non-formal education providers that have worked in the basic literacy
program to provide post-literacy teachers, and it will assign each contracted NGO to a number of
post-literacy centers. The DNFE will train the NGOs and other non-formal education providers in how to
implement the courses. The NGOs and other non-formal education providers will then train teachers and
supervisors. Two teachers will be trained at each center, ensuring gender parity. In each village,
post-literacy centers will register learners and the teacher or supervisor will assess the literacy skill level of
each learner to ensure that he or she can participate in the post-literacy program (the assumption is that half
of those who enrolled in the basic literacy program would have the interest and skill level required to
participate in post-literacy; another quarter would not meet the requirements, and the fourth quarter would
be advanced enough to enter continuing education courses directly).
- 38 -



Outcomes. The outcome of the post-literacy component will be approximately 1.6 million
learners who have participated in post-literacy training. More than 55,000 teachers who have had training
and experience in post-literacy instruction and support will constitute a pool for subsequent activities in
continuing education.
Implementation. The DNFE will select the pilot models to be implemented in the project. It will
train master trainers and contract with NGOs and other non-fornal education providers to conduct the
courses. The project will finance the employment of teachers and supervisors and their training; reading
materials; rental of post-literacy center facilities; and equipment and supplies for the post-literacy activities.
Policies and guidelines. Post-literacy training supported by the project will follow the successful
models piloted by the DNFE. NGOs and other non-formal education providers implementing the training
will be given flexibility and discretion, however, to modify the course, based on the particular needs and
interests of the learners. In line with definitions stated and visions described by the DNFE, post-literacy
training will lead to opportunities for continuing education.
Project Component 3 - US$ 50.60 million
Establishing Continuing Education
Current situation. The DNFE's strategy in providing literacy training skills has been to
systematically move from district to district offering a basic literacy course, and it intends to follow basic
literacy with a post-literacy course. The implementation of this ambitious program, however, has left the
DNFE little time and few resources to consider its role in non-formal education beyond literacy. Yet
learners in Bangladesh need additional training in order to gain the skills for taking action as citizens (to
vote and exercise their legal rights and duties as citizens and community members), as workers (to gain
employment or increase production), and as parents (to improve their family's health and to support their
children's education).
While the DNFE's services up to now have been limited to basic literacy and some post-literacy
training, several skills training programs exist in Bangladesh. Offered by governnent agencies and
non-government organizations, these services include life-skills training, vocational skills training, or
income-generation or credit programs. Skills training is offered to credit group members by many NGOs,
community based organizations (CBOs), private voluntary organizations (PVOs), and other private
organizations on topics such as livestock, improved crop production, or legal rights for women. Several
government agencies (such as those in the departments of Youth Development, Women's Affairs, Social
Services, Agricultural Extension, Fisheries, Livestock, and so on) also offer different types of vocational
training. It is likely that the lack of literacy content in many skills training courses that target illiterates
limits their effectiveness. Moreover, many smaller NGOs and CBOs do not have the capacity to manage
their programs well, report their finances, or promote their services. Some also need help in improving the
quality of their programs.
From the neo-literate's point of view, the problem is to find good-quality training programs that
lead to further opportunities for education and employment or to noticeable improvements in their
productivity or living conditions. Part of the challenge is getting information about what is available and
getting access to courses and opportunities that are of interest. Leamers need a center, or at least a venue,
where they can travel easily to seek information, use reading materials and other media, and even take
continuing education courses that build on their new literacy skills. Another part of the challenge is making
- 39 -



courses relevant to potential participants' needs and skill levels.
Improvements. The purpose of this activity is to improve the quality and accessibility of
continuing education services that are currently available and to develop new ones to meet learners' needs
and interests. To this end, the project will develop and support activities, organizations, and processes that
help continuing education providers meet the needs and interests of learners and that defines a larger role
for the DNFE in the non-formal education sector. It will support Continuing Education Centers (CECs);
strengthen and develop courses and other activities to be offered at those centers and elsewhere; and link
learners at the centers with opportunities for continuing education, credit, employment, services, and other
chances to improve their lives. The DNFE, in close cooperation with NGO and other government agency
partners, will implement the project in targeted upazilas and villages in each of the six divisions.
Outcomes. The project's outcome will be a network in each division of organizations that provide
continuing education and related services, field offices that help link service providers and learners, and
CECs that provide a venue for training and information to neo-literates. Nationwide, this will result in 230
field offices/monitoring centers and 6,900 village-level centers. The project will result in roughly 1.6
million beneficiaries who have participated in training activities and/or used the center to find information
on other continuing education and related services. As a result of their participation, many of these learners
would move on to further training and to better employment or better practices in their current occupations,
including farming. Many would improve their skills as family members and community members.
Sub-component 3.1: Village-level Continuing Education Centers (CECs)
To extend the reach of continuing education opportunities, the project will support village-based
Continuing Education Centers where men and women come to improve their literacy, technical, and/or life
skills, to learn about accessible opportunities for participation in other social and economic development
activities, and to use reading materials and other media available at the center.
Building on the notion of the Gram Shikkha Milon Kendra, each center will offer courses,
information, and materials that respond to the needs and interests of men and women with basic literacy
skills. While most courses will take place at the CECs, others will be offered at nearby venues selected by
service providers. Learners will be expected to enroll in courses that help them acquire competency in
reading, writing and math. In addition, they will be interested in skills training needed for local
income-generation activities and credit opportunities. In urban and peri-urban areas, learners will seek
skills training that lead to employment opportunities. In rural areas, villages will want training in
integrated pest management, crop management, and other farming skills that make them more productive.
Finally, they will be offered skills training critical to their daily lives, such as childcare, family health and
planning, community leadership, legal rights and communication skills, particularly for service delivery. In
order to orient activities in the direction of those that are most in actual demand, a Center Facilitator will
keep track of how learners use the center-what courses are popular, what materials are well used, and
what information is sought.
Implementation. Each center will be organized by village members, who will form a Center
Management Committee (CMC), similar to the committees that have managed basic literacy centers, to
guide and direct the center's development and program. A Center Facilitator will run the CEC day-to-day:
schedule activities, make information available, reading materials, and other resources, keep records on
activities, and keep the center well organized and secure. Fifty percent of the facilitators will be females.
The CMCs will agree on how the center would be managed, how it would operate, how it would be
- 40 -



maintained, what kinds of services and activities it would provide, and how its security would be assured.
The project will employ and train the Center Facilitator, help him or her develop a center plan, and
contribute to the cost of rent and furnishing. In addition, the project will give each center a small grant to
support start-up activities. The DNFE will develop operations guidebooks for the CEC.
Sub-component 3.2: Courses and Services development
The project will help service providers (govermment agencies, NGOs, CBOs, PVOs, and other
private sector organizations) develop and offer courses demanded by learners at the CECs. It will help
these agencies and organizations improve the quality of the courses they offer, promote their services to
learners, and improve their own management practices. This DNFE support will be available at the
divisional level to service providers.
Implementation. During the life of the project, the DNFE will contract with four individuals in
each division to form a Division Team. The team will begin its operations by conducting a study of
training needs and opportunities for neo-literates and of existing continuing education programs. It will
analyze current and emerging industrial and labor market trends within the division for the purpose of
developing courses that lead to opportunities in these markets. It will assist DNFE with field level
information about NGOs, CBOs, government agencies, and other organizations that can provide courses at
Continuing Education Centers and other opportunities for neo-literates in the Division.
At the same time, the team will maintain close working relationships with those who provide
continuing education. The team will provide support to DNFE's task of contracting with NGOs and other
non-formal education providers that meet DNFE criteria to provide courses at Continuing Education
Centers. It will also help DNFE to contract with well-established organizations to train smaller ones in
improving their courses, marketing, and management. Through periodic workshops and forums, it will
bring providers together for mutual support, increasing awareness of current issues, solving common
problems, and learning new knowledge and skills relevant to their work in continuing education. The team
will also help providers market their services.
The team will meet regularly with field-level project staff (see sub-component 3.3 below) in order
to share with them information about courses and other opportunities and to get information about the
needs and interests of neo-literates in the villages served by the project. As the project is starting up, the
team will work with field-level staff to orient administrative and DNFE officials in the division to the
project's purposes and activities and to enlist their support.
The strong performance of Division Teams is critical to the success of the project. To ensure that
divisional teams have the capacity to carry out these tasks, the DNFE will select qualified individuals and
train them in an extensive initial workshop, followed by annual refresher courses. In the course of carnying
out their initial studies, Division Teams will receive on-the-job training from those who had done similar
studies in previous years. Consultants will assist the initial team. The project will support the purchase of
vehicles, office space and supplies for each team.
Sub-component 3.3: Linkages between learners and services
In order to develop practices and habits of information exchange between actors in the continuing
education sub-sector, the project will support Upazila Program Organizers (UPOs) to link Continuing
Education Centers with organizations and services aimed at neo-literates. Because the non-formal sector is
not-and should not be-organized along formal fimctional lines and channels of infornation and
-41 -



accountability, its vitality depends on organizations and individuals who take responsibility for linking
neo-literates to continuing education service providers. While all actors in the sector take this initiative to
some extent, the UPOs will assume the role of active information brokering between centers and service
providers as their primary function.
The UPOs will inform Continuing Education Center facilitators and management committees of
courses the center might offer and assist them in selecting and scheduling courses. They will help centers
publicize information that attracts learners and advertise accessible opportunities for continuing education,
credit and income-generation programs, and work opportunities. They will serve as conduits of
information between CECs and the Division Team about available reading materials and help Centers
acquire materials. UPOs will help centers keep useful records and regularly assess the activities and
opinions of learners at the centers. They will organize training for center facilitators and workshops and
forums for information exchange among centers. It will be their duty to inform the project's Division Team
about the activities, needs, and interests of learners at the centers within the upazila.
Implementation. The DNFE may contract with an experienced NGO or other private
organizations in each selected upazila to provide the services of UPOs. Initial and refresher training will be
offered to field level workers in the skills and procedures they need to link CECs with courses and other
opportunities. The training will present a variety of approaches to encouraging neo-literates to take
advantage of CECs and continuing education programs offered at other sites within the division. These
approaches will include the use of bulletin boards, newsletters, newspaper items, presentations by
continuing education providers and organizations that offer opportunities for neo-literates, and counseling.
UPOs will learn methods of attracting individuals to the CECs, including presentations at post-literacy
centers. They will be taught to analyze data on center learners and report it to the divisional team so that
the team can guide providers in developing courses that meet learners' needs and interests. Once they had
been trained, UPOs, with assistance from the DNFE will organize training for the CMCs and CEC
facilitators.
Summary of implementation arrangements for Component 3. At the divisional level, the DNFE
will hire on contract four members of a project Division Team, who take responsibility for helping
continuing education providers improve, promote, and provide their services. Based on the information
supplied by the Division Team, the DNFE will make contracts with various proven NGO/private sector
organizations to provide training to other service providers, and it will use local and international
consultant assistance to carry out new tasks.
The DNFE may contract with NGOs and other non-formal education providers for the services of
UPOs, who support Continuing Education Centers and facilitate communication between the centers and
the Divisional Teams. Training will be provided to support UPOs in their tasks. At the village level, the
DNFE will employ Continuing Education Center facilitators. The Center Management Committees will be
responsible for overseeing and facilitating the day-to-day operations at the CECs.
Project operations will start in Year 2 of the project. The first activity in each division will be a
complete study by the Division Team of the skills training needs and opportunities for neo-literates and of
the agencies and organizations currently offering skills training programs. The project will start early on
calendar year 2001 and complete its activities by December 2005. Project years will be as follows:
Year 1 FY2000/01 (April 2001-Jun 2001)
Year 2 FY2001/02 (Jul 2001-Jun 2002)
Year 3 FY2002/03 (Jul 2002-Jun 2003)
- 42 -



Year 4 FY2003/04 (Jul 2003-Jun 2004)
Year 5 FY2004/05 (Jul 2004-Jun 2005)
Year 6 FY2005/06 (July2005-Dec 2005)
In each division, government will target 50% of the upazilas, and two villages in each union of the
upazila, based on criteria that it establishes. These criteria are proposed for consideration: (a) upazilas and
villages that have been served by the DNFE's literacy activities, including those covered by both the CBA
and TLM models, and (b) upazilas and villages representing a range of economic and social conditions, so
that the project can be tested under a variety of conditions. Some upazilas will be selected because there
are opportunities for neo-literates to find employment in the informal or formal labor market. Others will
be selected because economic and social conditions are poor, and the project will serve disadvantaged
people.
The project will finance the contracting of staff at the division and field levels. It will finance the
training of these staff and operations of their offices, including furniture and vehicles (a jeep at the division
level and a motorcycle at the field level). It will pay rent for offices at the division level; UPOs may be
located at NGO offices. At the CECs, the project will pay for the services of the Center Facilitator,
training of the facilitator, set-up of the CEC, rent, and some equipment and supplies. It will support the
training and development of govermment and non-government providers of continuing education and the
cost of training services provided by these organizations to neo-literates at the CECs. It will also finance
consultant services for planning and for assistance in training activities.
Policies and guidelines. The success of the project depends on active collaboration between the
DNFE and other government agencies and non-government organizations at the central, division, district,
upazila, union, and village levels. This particular component and the overall project is structured and
financed with this collaboration in mind.
Project Component 4 - US$5.40 million
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Current Situation. The DNFE operates under the PMED, which is responsible for primary
education and adult literacy. The DNFE has centralized offices of planning, program formulation, and
monitoring, and a decentralized mode of program implementation and supervision. The Director General,
chief executive of DNFE, is responsible for the management, administration and implementation of the
prograrns under the Directorate. The Director General is assisted by Directors, Deputy Directors and
Assistant Directors at the center and District Coordinators (DCOs) at the district level. DNFE's literacy
programs are implemented by a host of NGOs, CBOs, and PVOs, making non-formal education accessible
to millions of people throughout the country.
The Directorate was established in September 1995, but within a very short period of time it has
evolved into a large institution. It is today the largest NFE provider in Bangladesh. It has created and
executed several strategies for reaching illiterate people with basic literacy training. Yet recent assessments
have found that the quality of training sometimes suffers from over-centralized planning and
admninistration. Centralization of planning and administration has given rise to issues such as lack of
opportunity for variations required at the local level and weak local level supervision and monitoring. At
the national level, the DNFE does not yet have the technical capacity to conduct research for the design,
testing and evaluation of new post-literacy and continuing education materials. Thus, the institutional
decision-making mechanisms at central and local levels need to be strengthened so that they have the
- 43 -



capacity to serve an enhanced system of non-formal education. More particularly, the innovative nature of
activities envisioned in this project demands management structures and processes that permit good policy
access, substantial authority, and a staff possessing strong professional competence.
Improvements. The DNFE is well aware of its institutional weaknesses and it has started taking
corrective actions to improve them. The project will have a strong focus on DNFE and upgrade its
planning, implementation, technical support and quality control capabilities. It will build up the capacity of
all institutional units of DNFE through a wide but well focused range of training of staff and support to
systems improvement. It also will give special attention to inter-departmental linkages to manage
complexity. Thus it will help develop a critical mass of well trained planners, managers, controllers and
trainers. This would facilitate stronger delivery systems needed to account for the enhanced DNFE
activities in general and the post-literacy and continuing education, in particular.
Outcomes. One of the outcomes of this component will be improved management systems at the
central as well as field levels. Particular attention will be given to interlinking and activity-oriented systems
design, particularly in relation to the integration of MIS, monitoring and evaluation results into the
decision-making and the implementation process. In addition, it will leave in place strengthened
management units at the DNFE, with more responsive administrative, financial, information, and
monitoring systems. This will include a Management Information System (MIS) that helps the DNFE staff
keep track of inputs (including finances) and outputs. Finally, the DNFE staff, especially those associated
directly with the project, will have acquired the skills needed to implement post-literacy and continuing
education activities. Another outcome of this component will be a strengthened Technical Support Services
Unit, which eventually could become the nucleus of a National Academy of Non-Formal Education under
consideration by PMED.
Sub-component 4.1: Systems improvement
The project will help the DNFE strengthen its administrative, financial, infornation, planning,
implementation, technical service and monitoring systems so that they support the management of
enhanced DNFE activities. It will help project staff improve decentralized partnership and contract
management with service deliverers, project planning and implementation, inter-departmental cooperation,
decision making, financial management, procurement of goods and services, human resources
development, delivery of higher quality training, action research and effective use of the MIS and of the
monitoring and evaluation system. Consultants will work closely with the DNFE to examine how its
broadened mandate affects its current systems, and will identify concrete actions for systems improvement.
This will include checking on the present roles and responsibilities in relation to the mandate and
adjustlredefine them where required.
Implementation System. A number of units will collaborate to ensure a fully functioning system.
As described below, some of these units already exist, but others will be added by the project:
The PMED will guide the DNFE in its strategic planning, policy decisions, and management in
post-literacy and continuing education. To help provide leadership in these new program areas, the
project will provide PMED and DNFE officials, who work closely with the project, training,
orientation and exposure through fellowships to regional and intemational programs in non-formal
education. A project monitor will be appointed in the Project Implementation and Management Unit
(PIMU) and located in PMED.
The present Project Coordination Committee (PCC), headed by the Secretary of the PMED, will
- 44 -



oversee the project and ensure effective coordination of project activities with other projects and
activities in the PMED. The PCC will help develop partnerships and linkages with the other ministries
and government departments, NGOs, credit organizations, banks and private sector organizations to
support the project. It will review and approve the annual implementation plan of the project.
The Director General (DG) of DNFE will be responsible for the project. Within the DNFE, the
PIMU will be responsible for the financial management, procurement, logistics, reporting to the
donors on the project's progress as well as coordination of these activities with the line department of
DNFE with particular attention to monitoring and evaluation. Its detailed responsibilities will be to:
(a) assist in preparation of the annual plan of operations and to supervise its effective implementation;
(b) prepare annual budgets, allocate, and disburse funds; (c) monitor the management process of
DNFE particularly with regard to selecting NGOs and other non-formal education providers for their
service delivery to the programs; (d) ensure the collection of field expenditure vouchers and prepare
Expenditure Statements (SOEs) to enable the timely replenishment of funds, auditing of the project
expenses and submission of the audited statements to the donors; (e) support proper use of the MIS
and effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities; and (f) assist in the organization of
seminars/workshops relevant to the project.
With the clear distinction and allocation of the different but complementary functions of PIMU and
DNFE's line departments, the latter will maintain the full responsibility for field operations of the
Post-literacy and the Continuing Education Programs in relation to efficient planning, training,
implementation and operational monitoring of inputs and outcomes.
The Project Director will report directly to the Director General of DNFE on the financial and
procurement status of the project and will be responsible for preparation and submission of the annual
progress reports and forward plans to the donors. The Project Director will be assisted by two Deputy
Directors.
Organizing continuing education services and building the capacity of service providers will be the
primary responsibility of Division Teams as the field based operational units of DNFE. Literacy and
continuing education are essentially field-based activities and therefore, require dynamic, decentralized
field based, and flexible management structures and approaches. These Division Teams will liaise
with the TSSU at the central level for technical services. A major responsibility of the Division
Teams will be to arrange for continuing education services with other government agencies and
non-government organizations. When these arrangements involve formal contracts, the DNFE,
involving the DCO, will be responsible and will get advisory support from the Division Teams.
Upazila Program Organizers - as their primary function - will assume the role of active information
brokers between CECs and service providers for a variety of different training. DCOs will provide
administrative support to the UPOs.
The DNFE's Management Information System (MIS) will be strengthened so that central,
divisional, and field level managers can track the flow of resources (financial, material, and human) and
the results of project activities. The system will allow DNFE staff to extract data in a form useful for
making managerial decisions and taking corrective actions.
Monitoring and Evaluation activities will be built into the current program operations of the
DNFE. Post-literacy and continuing education implementers will keep records of project inputs received,
- 45 -



and attendance and achievement of learners. The activities implemented at the community level as well as
the provisions made to procure service providers at the center level will be regularly monitored by 32
specialized Monitoring Associates (MAs), UPOs (for Continuing Education) and Supervisors (for
Post-literacy) through visits and analysis of the reports and accounts from the centers. UPOs and DCOs
will monitor the effective linkages and system performance of various actors in both the post-literacy and
continuing education provision, and ensure the activities offered reflect the needs of the learners. The
Monitoring Section in cooperation with PIMU will focus on the analysis of collected data and reports to
introduce prompt feedback to the implementers and introduce suggestions for management and systems
improvements. The quality aspects and the impact of the program will be evaluated by the Evaluation
Unit, with inputs from the Division Teams, the PMED, the DNFE, and other technical experts. The
project will establish simplified and focused M&E mechanisms, promote prompt and effective infornation
exchanges, provide orientations and training for staff and implementers at different levels, and introduce a
regular consultation and self-monitoring mechanism at the community level.
Sub-component 4.2: Staff Development
The project will support the assessment of staff development needs and prepare plans for local and
international training for DNFE staff, including PIMU, at the central and field level. National and
international consultants are foreseen to assist in staff development, including the development of
curriculum and courses. This support will enable DNFE to receive the knowledge and skills to perform
their supplementary roles and responsibilities. The DNFE staff will receive training in planning,
evaluation, reporting, quality assessment, courses and materials development, as well as action research;
the PIMU staff will receive special training in accounting, procurement and reporting. The project will
finance procurement of additional equipment and furniture, educational materials, consumable supplies,
training, consultant services, operating costs, etc. for its operation.
The project will develop the capacity of DNFE technical staff to plan and execute training
programs and to provide on-going support to field staff. In particular, the TSSU Unit will closely work
through its core trainers with the Division Teams and UPOs to train and support UPOs, to develop CECs
and CMCs and to facilitate a variety of trainings to the learners in the Continuing Education component.
In the Post-literacy component the technical specialists will work through the NGOs and other non-formal
education providers and their master trainers to train supervisors and teachers while the DCO will be
instrumental in coordination of the post-literacy implementation and monitoring activities at the district
level.
-46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Local Million)           (US$ Million)         Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Promoting Enhanced and
Comprehensive NFE
1. National Framework                 10.0     17.3    27.4      0.2      0.3     0.5         63        1
2. Advocacy and Dissemination         30.7      1.2    31.8      0.6     0.02     0.6          4        1
Subtotal             40.7      18.5    59.2      0.8      0.4     1.2        31         2
B. Supporting Post-Literacy
Implementation                    519.3     81.1    600.4    10.2       1.6    11.8        14       20
C. Establishing Continuing Education
1. Continuing Education Centers    1,569.9     99.0  1,668.9    31.0      2.0    32.9          6       54
2. Courses and Services Development    77.7    27.9    105.6     1.5      0.6     2.1         26        3
3. Linkages - Learners and Services  268.2    135.6   403.8      5.3      2.7     8.0         34       13
Subtotal           1,915.8    262.5  2,178.3    37.8      5.2    43.0        12       71
D. Strengthening Institutional Capacit
1. Systems Improvement               129.3    44.9    174.2      2.5      0.9     3.4         26        6
2. Staff Development                  23.2     41.4     64.7     0.5      0.8     1.3         64        2
Subtotal            152.5     86.4   238.9       3.0      1.7    4.7         36         8
Total Base Costs                   2.628.3   448.5  3076.8    51.8        8.8    60.7         15      100
Physical Contingencies            18.6     21.4     40.0      0.4      0.4     0.8         54        1
Price Contingencies              484.9     27.1   512.0       9.6      0.5    10.1          5       17
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                3,131.7   497.1  3.628.8    61.8       9.8    71.6         14      118
- 47 -



Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Govt. of                                                                 Local
Baneladesh          IDA              SDC              Total       For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amoumt   %       Amount    %    Amount    %        Amount   %        Exch   Taxesl   Taxes
1. Vehicles                      0.3   22.1       0.9   77.9         -      -       1.2    1.6      0.9      0.0       0.3
2. Equipment                     1.0   22.6       3.5   77.4         -      -       4.5    6.3      4.0      0.1       0.3
3. Furniture                     1.0   37.1       1.8   62.9         -      -       2.8    3.9      0.3      2.5
4. Books and Materials           1.0   18.1       4.4   81.9         -      -       5.4    7.5      0.5      4.9
5. Local Training                  -      -      17.1   73.6       6.1   26.4      23.2   32.5        -    23.2
6. International Consultants     0.0      -       1.2   81.5       0.3   18.5       1.4    2.0      1.2      0.2
7. National Consultants          0.0      -       0.9   62.4       0.5   37.6       1.4    2.0      0.1      1.3
8. Fellowships                   0.0      -       0.9  100.0         -      -       0.9    1.3      0.8      0.1
9. Grant facility                0.0    4.0       0.9   96.0         -      -       0.9    1.2        -      0.9
10. Honorarium                    -       -       6.5   99.1       0.1    0.9       6.6    9.2        -      6.6
11. Incremental Salaries         4.4   34.1       8.5   65.9         -      -      12.9   18.0        -    12.9
12. TADA Allowances             0.0   34.1        0.0   65.9         -      -       0.1    0.1        -      0.1
13. Operational Costs           3.5   34.1        6.8   65.9         -      -      10.3   14.4      2.0      8.3
Total                11.j  1J57       5.    74.5 _       .0    9.8       71.6  100.0      9.        2       0.
- 48 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Economic and Financial Assessment
This Annex presents an analysis of the economic and social returns to education, the relationship
between poverty and literacy, a review of the alternatives considered, an assessment of the fiscal impact,
the financial sustainability and recurrent cost implications of the project and a brief examination of cost
sharing.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Economic and social returns
Private returns to education in Bangladesh are higher at lower levels of schooling. Findings based on
the standard Mincerian earnings equation using conventional semi-log form with the log of median annual
earnings using the Bangladesh Household and Expenditure Survey (BHES) 1995/96 data indicate that the
private returns to education are significant at all levels of the educational system. The estimated rate of
return is 37% for workers with incomplete primary education, 45% for workers whose highest educational
attainment is primary school, and 22% for workers with higher education (Table 1). The private returns
are also higher for males and workers in urban areas. On average, the rate of return per year of schooling
is 16% for female headed households and 9% for male headed households. The average private rate of
return for primary school was 45% for male headed households and 92% for female headed households.
Table 1: Private Rates of Return 1995/96
Level                   %
Less than primary (over no education)   37
Primary (over less than primary)        45
Jr. Secondary (over primary)            15
SSC/HSC (over jr. secondary)            22
Higher (over higher seconaar)           24
Source: Tanaka and Hussain (1999) and own estimates.
Education has a strong effect on improving personal and family welfare. The Bangladesh
Demographic and Health Survey (BDHS) 1996/97 is used to examine differences in welfare indicators
according to women's educational attainment. The higher a woman goes in the educational ladder, the
better-off she and her family scores in most health and family welfare indicators. Women who obtain more
education are more likely to work in skilled occupations, have greater access to media services, have lower
fertility levels, have greater awareness of sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS, and their children are
less likely to die very young.
There is a positive relationship between women's education and quality of life indicators (Table 2).
There is a marked improvement even for women who attain a few years of primary education. Women
with no education have a fertility rate of 3.93, compared to 3.27 for women with some primary education,
3.0 for women who complete primary education, and 2.1 for women who complete secondary education or
beyond. Education delays childbearing especially for young women between the ages of 15 and 19. For
example, the percentage of young uneducated women 15-19 who have begun childbearing is 54% compared
to 39% for women with some or completed primary education, and 19% for women with secondary
- 49 -



education or beyond. The under five mortality rate for children born to women with no education is twice
(144) that of women with secondary education or more (78). The percentage of fully vaccinated children
born to women with no education is 50% compared to 57% for children whose mothers have some primary
education and 70% for children whose mothers have secondary education or more.
Table 2: Quality of life indicators by evel of women's education
No      Primary    Primary   Secondary
education  incomplete  complete     +
Total fertility rate          3.93       3.27       3.00       2.10
Ideal number of children       2.6        2.5        2.4        2.2
Under 5 mortality (per 1000  144.5      118.4      100.0       78.3
population)
Children receiving full set of  49.7     56.6       49.1       70.1
vaccination %      _
Children malnourished         33.2       28.2       24.5       12.7
(stunting) %
Children malnourished         25.0       19.4       16.6        9.9
(under weight) %                  I          I
Source: Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey, 1996/97
BDHS data also shows that about 17% of children born to non educated women have never
received any vaccine, while the percentage for children born to women with some education is 6% and 3%
for women with secondary education or more. The percentage of women with no education who have ever
heard of HIV/AIDS is 6% compared to 13% for women with some primary education, and 58% for women
with secondary education or more. The relationship between HIV/AIDS awareness and education is also
strong for men: only 11 % of men with no education have ever heard of HIV/AIDS compared to 26% for
men with some education and 71% for men with secondary education or more.
A Tracer Study based on information of 1,480 graduates supported by the Bangladesh -
Non-Formal Education Project (Cr. 2822-BD) (82% women and 75% in the 14-25 age group) indicated
that "literacy graduates increased their participation in economic activities, cash savings, loan seeking
behavior and participation in loan programs. In addition, a greater percentage of graduates are sending
their children to school, participating in community groups and support activities, and using birth control
methods."
Main Assumptions:
Poverty Alleviation
The majority of beneficiaries of this project are expected to be neo literates and school dropouts,
groups with high poverty and household vulnerability levels. Data from the Bangladesh Household and
Expenditure Survey 1995/96 (BHES) is used to examine the relationship between household poverty
prevalence, adults' education and children's school enrollment.
Poverty Prevalence and Literacy. According to a recent World Bank report on poverty in
Bangladesh, of the 125 million people in the country, one half of the population lives in poverty (60 million
people) and one third lives in extreme poverty (43 million people). Poverty is widespread, particularly in
rural areas where 93% of the very poor reside. Moreover, while poverty headcount indices have declined
steadily since 1991-92, poverty prevalence remains high and inequality is on the rise in both rural and
- 50 -



urban areas. In urban areas inequality has increased most notably, with the Gini index rising from 31% in
1991-92 to 35% in 1995/96.
Illiteracy is highly associated with poverty prevalence. Recent statistics indicate that the national
literacy rate for the population age 15 years or above is only 51% (1997), with the literacy rate varying
significantly by gender, place of residence, division, and household's landholdings size. At the national
level, two thirds of the illiterate live in poverty (40 million) and half of them live in extreme poverty (21
million). This is in contrast with lower poverty headcount indices for people with primary or secondary
education. At the national level only 7% of the population with secondary education or more is below the
lower poverty line (World Bank, 1998).
Extreme poverty prevalence is higher for households headed by adults who are illiterate, landless,
widowed, divorced, or disabled. About 83% of heads of household in the poorest income decile have never
attended school, compared to only 17% of heads of households in the richest decile. For those heads of
household who have attended school, about 43% usually dropped-out before reaching grade 4, compared to
only 6% for heads of household in the richest income decile. Not surprisingly, the percentage of heads of
household who know "how to read a letter" is only 13% for those in the poorest decile, compared to 82%
for those in the richest decile.
There is a wide literature base documenting the inverse relationship between formal educational
attainment and poverty prevalence. In the context of Bangladesh, reports which have examined the benefits
of education on poverty indicate that education has a significant effect on poverty reduction. Findings from
a recent World Bank report indicate that consumption gains in urban areas range from 13% for households
whose head have completed some primary education to 48% for household heads who have completed
secondary education. Consumption gains are augmented further with the educational attainment of the
spouse: the higher the educational level the greater the gains in per capita consumption. For example, an
urban household whose head and spouse have completed secondary school would have an expected
consumption that is 90% greater than a similar household whose head and spouse have no schooling.
Aside from poverty, illiteracy is strongly associated with landholdings. Overall, about 5% of the
population is landless, 49% owns between 0.01 and 0.49 acres of land, and 14% owns more than 2.2 acres
of land. About 40% of landless households live in extreme poverty, compared to 16% for households
owning between 2.5-7.5 acres of land, and 2% owning more than 7.5 acres. Literacy rates are lowest
among landless laborers and small farmers compared to medium and large farmers. The literacy rate for
landless agricultural laborers is only 6% compared to 66% for large farmers. Non-agricultural households
have higher literacy rates (52%), especially in urban areas (58%).
When poverty prevalence is high, household vulnerability is usually high. Vulnerable households
are those with no cultivable land and whose main earner depends on casual or short-termn labor for income.
Household vulnerability is typically higher for households headed by unskilled adults who are landless and
have little or no savings. The precarious conditions under which the poor and vulnerable live makes bouts
with illnesses frequent and their effects very serious on the welfare of the household. Periodic illnesses
erode earnings and savings, leaving the household even more vulnerable to meet basic needs expenses. A
coping mechanism frequently used under these adverse circumstances is to send children to work in or
outside the household. This obviously exacerbates the inter-generational cycle of illiteracy and poverty.
According to a recent report on poverty monitoring, about 44% of all households reported having economic
hardships of which 75% responded having prolonged economic hardship (BBS, 1997). The Nutritional
Surveillance Project carried out by the Hellen Keller organization indicates that vulnerable households are
more likely to be illiterate and to take food loans (38%) compared to less vulnerable households (21%).
- 51 -



Vulnerable households cope with illness or natural disaster by borrowing money or relying on family (26%
and 21% respectively) compared to less vulnerable households who are more likely to use savings as a
coping mechanisms.
Parents' Literacy Level and Children School Enrollments Parents lack of education coupled
with lack of land are among the most important determinants of poverty in Bangladesh. Parents education
has an intergenerational effect, where the 'amount' of education children receive depends on the 'amount'
their parents received. Although most parents, literate or not, value education and the opportunities it
brings, many poor parents cannot afford school expenses. Too often parents are forced to either 'select the
most educable among their children' or remove all of their children from school. As expected, the school
enrollment rate for children in the 6-10 age group varies substantially by level of poverty. About 70% of
children from extreme poverty households are enrolled in school, compared to almost 90% of children from
non-poor households. The educational attainment gap widens as children move up the educational system.
The school attendance rate for children ages 11-14 from very poor households is 49% compared to 71% for
children from non-poor households (BBS, 1998).
Heads of households who have little or no education had themselves parents who had little or no
education. On average, about 87% of fathers and 97% of mothers of current heads of households in the
poorest income decile had no education, compared to 33% of fathers and 60% of mothers of current heads
of households in the richest income decile. Parents education has the strongest effect on the educational
attainment of their children, especially when both parents are literate. At the national level 6% of children
whose parents have formal education remain illiterate compared to 12% when both parents have no formal
education.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Assessment of Alternatives
Cost-effectiveness of post-literacy approaches. One of the major objectives of the post-literacy
(PL) program is to significantly contribute to the sustainability of benefits from basic literacy (BL)
programs by increasing the functional literacy skills of program participants. Research studies have shown
that leamers completing the basic literacy course without a critical level of literacy skill may not be able to
retain or improve skills on their own. Once learners have reached a literacy level equivalent to a class 4 or
5 of primary school and are using these skills in daily life, literacy skills are far less likely to be forgotten
and the benefits of literacy (in terms of employment, productivity, health practices, and attitudes) are far
more likely to be sustained.
Cost effectiveness analysis of post-literacy design options was done during the course of project
preparation. The options considered were (1) Ordinary class (BL class becomes PL center), (2) Reading
circle (Cluster of BL classes), (3) Gram Shikkha Milon Kendra (GSMK), (4) mobile resource van and (5)
the proposed PL center. To calculate the cost-effectiveness ratios of each alternative, the costs and number
of basic literacy graduates prevented from relapsing into illiteracy were estimated.
The cost per prevented BL graduates from relapsing into illiteracy was found lowest (US$8.30) for
the proposed approach (Alternative 5) and the highest (US$20.50) for the mobile resource van program
(Table 3). Among the PL approaches considered, the proposed approach in which two post literacy
activities are conducted in one PL center and structured instructions as well as regular discussions meetings
are organized by the resource person, was found to be most cost-effective. GSMK and mobile resource
van approaches appeared to be less cost-effective.
- 52 -



Table 3: Cost-Effectiveness of Post-literacy delivery approaches
Alternatives     Approach              Main features             Cost-Effective
ness (US$)
Alternative 1    Deliver PL through    BL center (TLM: 6+3
ordinary class        model or CBA: 6+4         9.3
(BL class becomes     model) extended for
PL center)            additional 4 months under
CBA program.
Alternative 2    Deliver PL through    3 BL centers (TLM: 6+3
reading circle        model or CBA: 6+4
(Cluster of BL        model) combined to form    10.6
classes)              one study or reading
circle, PL centers are
basically small libraries,
study discussions
organized with Resource
persons for one year
Alternative 3    Deliver PL through    GSMKs serving as
GSMK serving as a     community libraries for
library               neo-literates, and are    17.6
provided with post literacy
materials, books and
magazines on development
and life oriented activities,
a radio set, daily news
paper and playing
materials.
Altemative 4     Deliver PL through    Technical support
mobile resource vans    materials to be delivered  20.5
to 15 BL/PL centers by a
resource van equipped
with a television and a
cassette player.
Alternative 5    Deliver PL through    PL center; covering male
different models (PL    and female learners;    8.3
center)               structured instruction +
regular discussions with
resource persons
Source: Mission Estimates
Cost utility of continuing education delivery. For the implementation of continuing education
programs, two alternative service delivery strategies were considered: (1) Delivery through service
- 53 -



providers which can link the graduates with institutions providing credit for income generating activities,
and (2) Delivery through local administration (Table 4). In order to assess cost effectiveness of these
approaches to deliver continuing education programs, cost utility analysis (CU) was conducted and a
comparison of their costs and the estimated utility or value of their outcomes has been made. Cost utility
analysis was chosen for the exercise since the continuing education program aims to achieve multiple
objectives such as reduction of neo-literates relapsing into illiteracy, application of life skills knowledge,
employment of graduates, increased income of graduates, and improved social indicators.
Table 4: Cost U  lity of Continuing Edu  tion Delivery
Alternatives          Approach              Main Features          Cost-utility
(USm
Alternative I     Deliver programs through  Post literacy and Continuing
service providers      Education programs to be
delivered through GOs, NGOs,   6.7
CBOs or PVOs which can link
the graduates with institutions
providing credits for income
generating activities
Alternative 2     Deliver programs through  Post literacy and Continuing
local administration   Education programs to be        8.4
delivered directly through
local administration
Source: Mission estimates
The cost of achieving one unit of utility is US$6.70 for Altemative 1 and US$8.40 for Alternative
2. The analysis found that although it is less costly to deliver the program through the local administration
(total cost per participant (administration and program costs) is US$26.60 for delivery through local
administration and US$35 for delivery through service providers), cost-utility ratios indicate that delivery
of continuing education through service providers, which can link graduates with institutions providing
credit facilities and income generating activities, is more cost-effective than delivery through local
administration.
Fiscal Impact
Public resource requirements for education (including NFE). The Government of Bangladesh
plans to achieve 90% literacy by 2006. The Draft Report of the National Education Policy Committee
(1997) has recommended a number of strategies to enhance quality of education in the country and expand
primary and NFE education to reach the poor. The Fifth Plan (1997-2002) recognizes that the resources
available for education are inadequate to meet the commitments made for compulsory education, and
enlargement of the base of science and technical and vocational education (Ministry of Planning, 1998).
Primary education needs more teachers and textbooks in relation to the increased enrollment. More public
resources are required to increase the quality and efficiency of education at all levels. A long-run
perspective study (Bangladesh 2020) conducted by World Bank and the Bangladesh Center for Advanced
Studies (1998) recognized the need for increasing public spending on schooling to a level of 3% of GDP by
2000. The Draft Report above has reconmmended to raise the proportion of government education
expenditure in GDP to 5% by 2000 and 7% by 2010. Between the National Education Policy Committee's
recommendation and the actual allocation (2.1%), the gap in public expenditure on education amounts to
2.9% of GDP.
The Bangladesh Education Sector Review (World Bank, 1999) identified public resource
requirements for expanding coverage and improving quality under seven alternative scenarios. The Review
pointed out that there is no need to increase the share of government education expenditure in GDP to
- 54 -



maintain the existing coverage with low quality of education system (Base scenario); universal five years or
eight years with existing quality level (Scenario 1 and 2, respectively); and universal five years of primary
education with investments in improving primary quality (Scenario 3). However, in order to improve the
quality of primary education with universal eight years by 2008 and maintain existing enrollment rates at
other levels (Scenario 5), the proportion of expenditure has to be raised to 2.90% of GDP or 18.60% of
total government expenditure by 2008. Government budget allocation to education has to be increased to
4.10% of GDP or 27% of total government expenditure by 2008 to improve quality as well as expand the
coverage of secondary, higher secondary, TEVT and tertiary levels (Scenario 8).
To calculate public resource requirements for NFE, the number of illiterates to be targeted after
2001 was estimated. The size of the target population for basic literacy depends on dropout and graduation
rates in primary grades and basic literacy classes. If DNFE achieves its target of providing basic literacy
to 34 million illiterates by 2001, the need for non-formal basic literacy training is likely to diminish.
However, an SDC study (1998) observed that the role of NFE in the next decade will continue to be
important since the expected school dropout rate leaves behind 5 million children as illiterates. It is
assumed that the government allocations to basic literacy would continue at the 2000/01 level i.e. planned
expenditure Tk 2,784 million or US$58 million per annum. The targets for post-literacy and continuing
education are mainly basic literacy graduates. Annual requirements for the proposed project will be on
average US$11.90 million (US$71.60 million for six years). The annual level of counterpart funding of the
government for the proposed project is estimated to be US$1.70 million.
Based on these assumptions, it is estimated that the NFE sector will require on average US$63
million per annum or US$380 million for the six- fiscal year period (2000-06).
Budgetfor NFE. Financial sustainability of expenditure in NFE depends on the capacity of GOB
to allocate the required resources to the sub-sector, which in itself depends on the performance of the
economy as a whole. Estimates of budget availability for the education sector as a whole, as well as the
primary and NFE sub-sectors under three scenarios (base case, optimistic case and plausible case) were
projected based on different assumptions regarding growth of GDP and revenue, proportion of foreign
assistance and internal borrowing in GDP, and government expenditure allocation to education and its
sub-sectors. Under the plausible scenario, the education sector would receive US$9.60 billion of which the
share of primary and non-formal education would be US$4.80 billion (primary: US$4.41 billion and NFE:
US$0.38 billion) during the 2000-06 period.
Financial sustainability. Based on the projection of availability of resources for NFE under the
plausible scenario, the resource envelope for NFE during the project period (2000-06) is estimated to be Tk
21,016 million (US$384 million), which adequately covers resource requirements for the sector (Table 5).
The size of the proposed project (US$71.60 million) is less than 19% of the estimated available budget for
the NFE sub-sector. If the economy grows at an annual rate of 5.0% in real terms and government
allocates 16.5% of the total government expenditure, including external donors funds, to education and 4%
of the education allocations to the NFE sub-sector, the overall financial sustainability of the sub-sector will
be ensured.
- 55 -



Table 5: Availability of Government Expenditure for PLCE Project
(Tk. Million)
1999/00    2005/06    Total 2000-06
(US$ million)
Total Government Expenditure    343,300    678,081          58,159
Education Expenditure            50,808    111,883           9,596
PME expenditure                  23,778     55,942           4,798
NFE expenditure                   1,626 1    4,475             384
Source: Mission estimates
Incremental Annual Liability during the Project: There are 401 posts at the DNFE ( 57
Officers, 64 district officers, 88 DNFE central staff and 192 district staff). All DNFE staff get their salary
from the NFE-1 project funded under the development budget. GOB intends to regularize management
structures and personnel by taking over recurrent liabilities of DNFE projects. Accordingly, 401 person
positions of DNFE will be regularized and funded by the governnent beginning FY2000/0 1. The shift of
responsibility for this to the Government regular budget requires around Tk 212.7 million in 6 years.
Counterpart funding to PLCE would add Tk 544.3 million in six years- resulting in overall increases of Tk
757.0 million (Table 6). It is estimated that the government annual liability during the program period will
be Tk 126.2 million on average. The total annual liability will be at its maximum of Tk 202.0 million for
the year 2001/02. The annual average level of counterpart funds for the Project over the six years will be
US$1.70 million. This is under 10% of NFE budget in 1998/99.
Table 6: Government Incremental Annual Liability "during" Project
(Tk Million; current prices)
00/01  01 /02  02/03   03/04   04/05   05/06   Total
Salaryof401 DNFE staff*    l  30.5    32.3   34.3    36.3   38.5    40.8  212.7
Counterpart funds(5%          9.8   169.7  114.1   119.1  121.7      9.9  544.3
Total increment              40.3   202.0  148.4   155.4  160.2    50.7  757.0
*Annual increase for inflation: 6%
Incremental Annual Liability after the Project The incremental annual liabilities after the end of
the project is estimated at Tk 15.2 million (Table 7). The following estimates reflect the assumption that
two cost items e.g., additional salary of DNFE staff and salary of new monitoring associates (MAs) would
add to recurrent liability. This is in addition to the recurrent liability of ongoing NFE projects. The PLCE
Project includes incremental posts for additional staff for the DNFE who may be regularized by the end of
the project period. The estimated recurrent liability does not take into account the costs of continuing many
of the components begun or expanded during the Project including cost of contract staff at the local levels
and salary and operating cost of continuing education centers.
Table 7: Incremental Liability "after" the Project (Tk. Million)
Cost items             2000-06    2004/ 05   Annual liability
Salary of 32 new MAs         31.4       7.4            7.4
Additional DNFE staff salary (18)  35.4      7.8            7.8
Total                 66.8       15.2           15.2
Source: Mission Estimates
Table 8 shows that PLCE liability at the end of the program period is negligible as compared to the
projected GDP in the financial year 2004/05. This analysis ensures the government capacity to sustain this
- 56 -



amount beyond the program period.
Table 8: PLCE Liability as a % of various financial indicators
Projected amount (2004/5)  PLCE annual liability
Items                  Tk in million       Tkl S.2 Million as % of( 2)
(1)                       (2)                      (3)
1. GDP at current prices                  4,078,900           0.0004
2. Educational expenditure                  100,796           0.0151
3. NFE expenditure                           4,032            0.3770
4. Total Govt. Revenue                      406,942           0.0037
Source: Mission estimates
Cost Sharing: GOB would like to introduce cost sharing measures wherever possible. Cost
sharing strategies should aim to mobilize resources from those beneficiaries who can afford. It is neither
possible nor desirable to recover the cost of education from poor families especially at the lower level such
as primary education and literacy programs.
As literacy has been regarded as a basic public good, it would not be justified to raise money from
beneficiary participants. The time provided for attending the classes represents a contribution of the
participants in terms of opportunity costs. The NFE- 1 project co-financed by IDA does not involve cost
recovery in cash from the direct beneficiaries on the following grounds: (i) Government is committed to
provide free and compulsory primary education, (ii) The target group is the poorest segment of the society,
and (iii) The cash contribution that beneficiaries may be able to make would be insignificant and
necessitate cumbersome logistics and high administrative costs (World Bank, 1996). As in the basic
literacy program, there will be no cash contribution by the Post literacy participants of the proposed
project. However, local communities will require to contribute to Post literacy activities mainly through
in-kind contributions such as arrangement for a meeting space including sitting mats.
Local governments at the upazila and union level have the capability of mobilizing local resources,
coordinating local level activities and linking literacy programs with Income Generating Activities (IGA)
and other development programs. The involvement of these local actors is more important in the context of
implementing continuing education program that aims at supporting the literacy graduates to participate in
other development activities. The role of the local government, however, should be limited to planning,
programming, monitoring and coordinating.
The majority of NFE programs are funded by international donors, except for the TLM programs
which get approximately 72% of their funds from the GOB. Most of the NGOs utilize donor funds, which
are channeled either directly or through DNFE. Some of the larger NGOs also mobilize surplus funds for
education programs and other social activities from their credit. For the CBA program, DNFE expects
contributions from NGOs as it funds them in terms of unit costs per leamer, which does not include
administrative costs. NGOs are required to contribute 15% of the cost of providing basic literacy. In
practice, the contribution from NGOs with regard to the sharing of costs while implementing DNFE
programs is limited.
Being the employers of the trainees of the skills training programs, the business community may be
willing to contribute to continuing education programs if training programs are run according to their
needs. The project will find ways to mobilize contributions from the business sector.
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Years Ending
December 31, 2005
Y Year 1| Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.2       17.3        9.7       10.0      10.1        0.1       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.1        5.1        5.3        5.6        5.9        1.2       0.0
Total Project Costs           1.3       22.4       15.0       15.6      16.0        1.3       0.0
Total Financing               1.3       22.4       15.0       15.6      16.0        1.3       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.0       18.6       11.4       11.7       10.2       0.5        0.0
Government                 0.1        2.2        1.9        2.0        4.2       0.8        0.0
Central                                                                                 0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                                                                               0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.2        1.5        1.7        2.0        1.6       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.3       22.3       15.0       15.7      16.0        1.3       0.0
Main assumptions:
Cost sharing: IDA - 74% of total project costs, SDC - 10% and GOB 16%; Of the total IDA and
GOB portion, IDA - 83% and GOB - 17%.
- 58 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Procurement
Major Procurement
1.    Major procurement under the project will be for goods and consultants' services including NGO
services, and training ("NGO" means a Non-Governmental Organization and will include
Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and Private Voluntary Organizations (PVOs). "NFEP" means a
Non-formal Education Provider, being an NGO, a CBO or a PVO. The project will procure goods
(US$1.65 million), and services (US$66.90 million). Services will include consultants services and
training and dissemination (US$4.96 million) and NGO services (US$61.95 million). The Procurement
Plan, identifying major contract packages including schedule, is annexed to the PIP. As agreed at
Negotiations, DNFE has submitted a revised Plan incorporating all agreed changes.
Procurement Guidelines
2.    All procurement financed by IDA and SDC will follow Bank's Guidelines as follows: (a)
procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 (Revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999); and (b) consultants services will be procured according to procedures prescribed in the
Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January
1997 (Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement Methods (Table A)
3.    Goods (US$1.65 million): Goods to be purchased under the project will consist primarily of small
purchases of vehicles, computers, office equipment, furniture, books and training materials. Goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more per contract will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedure. Any goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured using national competitive bidding (NCB) procedure. Goods estimated to cost
less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$750,000
equivalent, may be procured through international shopping (IS) or national shopping procedure (NS) by
soliciting price quotations from at least three eligible bidders. Cross-country vehicles (US$0.50 million)
will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. The individual contracts for
other equipment are expected to be small and are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Such equipment will
therefore be procured either through NCB when the estimated cost is less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract or through IS/NS when the cost per contract is less than US$20,000. Journals, magazines and
newspapers may be procured directly off-the-shelf or through subscriptions when the individual contract
costs the equivalent of US$1,500 or less.
4.    Services (US$66.90 million): Consultants services through firms estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$100,000 or more per contract shall be procured on the basis of Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS) method. Other individual consultants will be hired on the basis of qualifications and experience in
accordance with Section V of the Consultants Guidelines. Consultants services for two components:
capacity strengthening of the DNFE (US$2.05 million) and national framework, advocacy and
dissemination (US$0.31 million) will be through firms; and for supporting post-literacy and continuing
- 59 -



education (US$0.50 million) will be through individual consultants. Auditors will be selected following
"least-cost" method. In addition to IDA, part of the services contracts for Consultants, NGOs and other
non-formal education providers and training and dissemination will be financed by SDC.
5.    NGOs and other non-formal education providers will be selected following a fixed-budget method
i.e. as per the budget disclosed in the request for project proposals) in accordance with selection procedures
described in Attachment 1. However, under this method the budget shall remain fixed along with the line
items. NGOs and other non-formal education providers will submit only technical proposals and need not
to submit any financial proposals. Local training (US$21.95 million) for post-literacy and continuing
education components will be provided through NGOs and other non-formal education providers. Training
for post-literacy implementation will include training of teachers and supervisors; and for continuing
education will include facilitators, skills training, and workshops at upazila, union, and village level.
Training (US$2.08 million) for DNFE/NGO personnel and dissemination work will be through
single-source selection and will include local and international training, study tours, media campaigns,
workshops and other such activities.
6.    Operating Costs (US$3.02 million). Operating costs including incremental staff salaries will be
covered under the project on a declining basis (see paragraph 19, Table C).
Procurement and Selection Planning
7.    Procurement Plan for goods and Selection Plan for services have been prepared. Prior to issuance
of any invitation for bids for procurement of goods and selection of services, the proposed Plan shall be
furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of
Appendix 1 to the respective Guidelines. Procurement of goods and selection of all consultants and NGOs
and other non-formal education providers shall be undertaken in accordance with Plans as shall have been
approved by IDA, and with the provision of said paragraph 1 of Appendix I of the respective Guidelines.
Use of Standard Documents
8.    For ICB procurement of goods, the use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) is
mandatory. For NCB procurement, DNFE will use the SBDs for Goods approved by the Association. For
selection of consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) including standard contract
forms will be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for goods and Sample Form of Evaluation
for services will be followed for submission of evaluation reports to IDA. For selection of NGOs and other
non-formal education providers, the Sample Request for Project Proposals (SRPP) agreed with IDA will be
used. During Negotiations, it was agreed that DNFE would submit the revised SRPP.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
9.     Goods: IDA will carry out prior review of the following contracts: all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$200,000 or more irrespective of procedures and first two contracts for the
procurement under NCB. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review by IDA.
10.    Services: IDA's prior review will be required for consultants' services contracts estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals. For NGO
services, DNFE will invite proposals once a year from the relevant NGOs and other non-formal education
providers for contracts in 230 Upazilas, prepare one evaluation report for all contracts, and award a
number of contract packages to the qualified NGOs and other non-formal education providers following the
- 60 -



procedures described in Attachment 1. Although individual contracts will cost between
US$25,000-US$40,000, the total contract value may exceed US$100,000 depending on the number of
packages that an NGO be awarded. In view of the above, IDA's prior review will be required for: the
draft request for project proposals, the proposals' evaluation report including the list of technically
qualified NGOs and other non-formal education providers together with their scores/ranking after it has
been reviewed and cleared by the Subvention Sub-committee, and the draft contracts valued at US$100,000
or more. The Subvention Committee will finally select the NGOs and other non-formal education providers
and allocate to them contract packages. If the Subvention Committee decides to add or delete any NGO
from the list cleared by IDA, appropriate justifications should be submitted to IDA for its consideration.
Other services arrangements subject to prior review by IDA will include: all single-source contracts and
terms of reference for all contracts for consultants' services.
Post Review
11.   For compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures, IDA will carry out sample post review of
contracts that are below IDA's prior review threshold. Such post review of contracts below the thresholds
will be carried out for approximately up to 10% of the contracts awarded. The Procurement, Disbursement
and Audit Team (PDAT) of the Bank's Dhaka Office or firms hired for the purpose will undertake such
reviews of sample contracts.
Review of Procurement Performance
12.   IDA will monitor the compliance with the requirements of Bank's different procurement methods
and performance standards on a continuous basis. As part of the project's planned mid-terrn review, a
comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out. Based on the review, in
consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold including the procurement and selection
methods.
Acceptability of NCB
13.   In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines:
(i)    standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
(ii)   invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper and
bidding documents shall be made available to prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to the deadline for
the submission of bids;
(iii)   bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(iv)   bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
(v)    foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders;
(vi)   qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated
- 61 -



bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii)   bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
(viii)  all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder's bid security
shall apply only to a specific bid;
(ix)   bids shall be opened in public in one place immediately, but no later than one hour, after the
deadline for submission of bids;
(x)    evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed with the Association;
(xi)   bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii)  split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When two or more bidders
quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion,
following which (A) if collusion is detennined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall
then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be
confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
(xiii)  contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid validity
so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional
circumstances;
(xiv)  extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Association (A)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks and (B) for all subsequent requests for
extensions irrespective of the period;
(xv)   negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(xvi)  re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence; and
(xvii) all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract
documents. A contractor's or a supplier's performance security shall apply to a specific contract under
which it was furnished.
Reporting
14.    The project will prepare quarterly Procurement Monitoring Reports as part of the Project
Management Reports.
Procurement Management and Implementation
15.    Procurement Issues: The draft Country Procurement Assessment Report submitted to the
Government in June 2000, stated procurement as a generic problem in Bangladesh. The CPAR identified a
series of factors accounting for procurement problems in the country that include poor advertisement, short
bidding period, poor bidding documents, multiple evaluation committees, award of contract through lottery,
- 62 -



negotiation, lack of professional competence, corrupt practices and pressure from special interest groups
and collective bargaining agencies.
16.   Capacity Review and Risk Assessment: Given the above, all procurement under the project will
be handled by DNFE through PIMU. Although the proposed PIMU has not yet been established, since
PIMU will be under DNFE, IDA carried out an assessment of procurement capacity of DNFE. This
assessment included organizational aspects, staff skills, quality and adequacy of supporting and control
systems, and suitability of laws, rules and regulations applicable to the agency. The assessment made use
of part of the Bank's questionnaire, and reviewed the record of DNFE in handling procurement with
specific relevance to the application of the Bank's written rules and procedures in practice. DNFE, through
PIMU, has the experience of executing the IDA financed Non-formal Education Project- I where the
amount of procurement work is relatively small. One Assistant Director (Procurement) is primarily
responsible for procurement activities. Based on the review, there are substantial risks associated with
procurement and DNFE clearly needs strengthening of its procurement management capacity.
17.    Strengthening of Capacity and Advance Procurement Actions: For strengthening DNFE's
procurement management capacity and ensuring advance procurement actions as part of project
preparation, the government has taken the following actions in agreement with IDA:
(a) formed a Procurement Core Team (PCT) comprising six members from logistics, procurement,
finance and statistics. The TORs of the PCT include: preparation of procurement plan, bidding
documents for goods, request for proposals for consultants and NGO services, inviting bids,
short-listing of consultants, evaluating bids/proposals and awarding contracts;
(b) designated Director (Administration and Finance) as head of PCT, who will be in charge of
procurement matters and will help plan, undertake and monitor all project procurement actions;
(c) conducted, in collaboration with IDA, two short training workshops on procurement (for goods and
consultants' services) for the PCT and other DNFE staff (10 persons);
(d) used the services of a Procurement Consultant under PHRD grant who has been assisting DNFE in
project preparation work related to procurement;
(e) prepared procurement plan, issued general procurement notice, received bids for the first year
procurement (vehicles and computers), received proposals from the shortlisted firms for consultants'
services for capacity building of DNFE; and
(f)  made provision under the project for the recruitment of one Deputy Director and one Assistant
Director of Procurement in PIMU for the entire project period, and one Procurement Consultant for
18 person-months.
18.   Action Plan: In addition to the above, the following time-bound action plan for strengthening the
procurement management capacity and for completing tasks as readiness for implementation of the project
has been agreed with IDA.
- 63 -



Time-Bound Action Plan
Actions                                                        Time-Bound
(a) Goods: Contract Packages for First Year
1.    Send evaluation reports to IDA                          January 25, 2001
2.    Issue notification of awards                             February 11, 2001
3.     Sign contracts                                          March 8, 2001
(b) Consultants Services: (Capacity Building)
1.    Send technical evaluation to IDA                        January 15, 2001
2.    IDA clears technical evaluation                          January 25, 2001
3.    Open financial proposals                                 February 12, 2001
4.     Send final evaluation to IDA                            February 20, 2001
5.    IDA clears final evaluation                              February 26, 2001
6.    Complete contract negotiation                            March 8, 2001
7.    IDA clears negotiated draft contract                     March 11, 2001
8.     Sign final contract                                     March 13, 2001
(c) Staffing
1.    Appoint the Deputy Director and Assistant Director
of Procurement                                          Before Credit Effectiveness
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 64 -



Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
US$ Thousand
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive  Competitive
Ridding      Ricdding      Other /a     N1R-.F /b       Total
1. Goods
A. Vehicles                       492.08            -             -                      492.08
(402.91)                                               (402.91)
B. Equipment, Furniture and            -       568.21        593.91                     1,162.11
Books and Materials                  -     (453.34)      (481.16)                    (934.50)
2. Services
A. Consultants' Services,              -            -       3,954.47     1,000.62       4,955.09
training and dissemination                             (3,954.47)                  (3,954.47)
B. NFEP Services                       -            -     55,950.91      5,998.44      61,949.35
(46,092.18)                 (46,092.18)
3. Operational costs
A. Incremental Salaries                -            -      2,179.88                     2,179.88
(1,409.11)                  (1,409.11)
B. Operating Costs                     -            -        835.64                      835.64
(ill 49)                    (sr1 4R!
Total                              492.08       568.21     63,514.81      6,999.05      71,574.15
(402.91)     (453.34)   (52,468.41)                 (53,324.66)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies.
a/ Includes goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services under IDA Guidelines,
NFEP services, training, dissemination, and incremental operating costs.
b/ N.B.F.: Non-Bank Financed (SDC-financed).
- 65 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                         N/A                      N/A                      N/A
2. Goods
(a) Vehicles              US$200,000 or more              ICB                  Prior Review
(b) Equipment             US$200,000 or more              ICB                  Prior Review
Less than US$200,000            NCB                First two contracts
regardless of value
Less than US$20,000            NS/IS                  Post review
(c) Furniture            Less than US$200,000             NCB                   Post-review
Less than US$20,000            NS/IS                  Post review
(d) Journals and
magazines                Less than US$200,000             NCB                   Post review
Less than US$20,000            NS/IS                  Post review
US$1,500 or less              DC                    Post review
3. Services
Consultants' Services     US$100,000 or more        Quality- and Cost-          Prior review
(firms)                                               Based Selection
Less than US$100,000          Least-cost              Post Review
Individual Consultants     US$50,000 or more          Qualifications            Prior review
Auditor (Performance)                                   Least-cost                 Post
NGO services                                          Fixed Budget*            Prior review**
Training and                                          Single Source           Prior agreement
dissem ination          ______________________  ___________________-_66_
- 66 -



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
*   Fixed Budget - in accordance with a budget disclosed in the request for proposals. NGOs and other
non-formal education providers do not submit any financial proposals.
**  Prior Review - will include the draft request for project proposals, the proposals' evaluation report including
the list of technically qualified NGOs and other non-formal education providers together with their scores/ranking
after it has been reviewed and cleared by the Subvention Sub-committee, and the draft contracts valued at
US$100,000 or more. The Subvention Committee will finally select the NGOs and other non-formal education
providers and allocate contract packages to them.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
19.    Table C below shows the allocation of IDA proceeds and the financing for the various categories
of expenditures. PIMU will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications. The closing date of the
proposed project is December 31, 2005. Disbursement estimates of IDA proceeds over a five-year period
is presented in Annex 5.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds /a
Amount of the
Amount of the                              of the Swiss
IDA Credit                                  Grant
Allocated                                 Allocated
Category            Expressed         % of Expenditures        Expressed   % of Expenditures
in US Dollars       to be Financed       in US Dollars  to be Financed
1. Goods                       1,250,000   100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
80% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
2. Consultants Services,
Training and Dissemination  3,700,000    82%                            840,000  18%
3. Non-Formal Education
Providers' Services      43,140,000    74%                          5,720,000  10%
4. Incremental Staff Salaries              100% for FY2001 and FY2002       -
and Operating Costs         1,820,000   70% for FY2003 and FY2004,
35% thereafter
Unallocated                 3,415,000                                   440,000
Total           53.325.000                                 7 000.000
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
-68 -



20.   Until PMR-based disbursement is agreed upon, the traditional disbursement procedures will be
applicable for withdrawal of funds from the Credit. With each withdrawal application, IDA will require
full documentation where contracts for (i) goods exceed US$200,000 equivalent, (ii) consulting firms
exceed US$100,000 equivalent, and (iii) individual consultants exceed US$50,000 equivalent.
Expenditures below the above thresholds and expenditures for training, salaries and operating costs will be
claimed through SOEs.
Special account:
21.   To ensure timely payments to suppliers, contractors, consultants and NGOs and other non-formal
education providers, there will be two Convertible Taka Special Accounts (SA), one under the IDA Credit
and another under the SDC grant, established in a comrnercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. PIMU will be responsible for managing both Special Accounts, including submitting withdrawal
applications to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special Accounts will be equivalent to four months
of estimated expenditures, which is estimated to be Tk 270 million under the IDA Credit and Tk 37.8
million under the SDC Grant. At the start of the project, the initial deposit to the Special Accounts will be
limited to Tk 21.6 million and Tk 162 million under the IDA Credit and SDC grant respectively. The
remaining amount of the authorized allocation may be requested only after the cumulative disbursements
reach the equivalent of SDR 9.0 million in the case of the IDA Credit and US$2.0 million under the SDC
grant.
22.   When PMR-based disbursement is introduced, the authorized allocations to the respective SAs will
be limited to Tk 540 million in respect of the IDA Credit, and to Tk 75.6 million in respect of the Swiss
grant.
23.   Proposed Financial Management System. DNFE, under the overall control and supervision of
PMED, will be responsible for ensuring that project funds will be spent for purposes intended, and with due
care to economy, efficiency and effectiveness. The Finance Section of PIMU will be responsible for the
preparation of financial reporting, monitoring and analysis of financial information and preparing reports
for the concemed GOB ministries, departments and donors.
24.   An assessment of the project financial management system and actions agreed to be taken are given
below:
* Given the current staffing pattern of DNFE, its capacity is still not adequate to meet IDA's project
financial management requirements under the project. A proposed separate Finance Cell under PIMU
will perform financial management functions, prepare quarterly PMRs/withdrawal applications and
provide information relating to project expenditures and Special Accounts to the Bank. The Finance
Cell will closely liaise with the Finance Directorate of DNFE for issues relating to financial
management of the project.
*  The proposed project financial management system is documented in a 'Financial Management
Manual'. The PIP may include the Finance Management Manual to serve as a reference document for
all project staff. The Financial Management Manual will be periodically updated based on
implementation experience. The significant changes in the Manual will be made in consultation with
IDA. The Manual will include budgeting and flow of funds; accounting system (including Chart of
Accounts, formats of books, accounting and financial procedures); financial reporting (including
formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts); staffing and training aspects; auditing
arrangements including Terms of Reference; procurement and contract administration monitoring
system; financial and accounting policies; and service standards (benchmarks) for various accounting
and financial activities.
- 69 -



25.    Accounting Process. The project shall maintain proper books of accounts and records as
required and necessary for an efficient, transparent management unit. They will be capable of
disclosing a true and fair view of the financial state of the project. The Project Director will
establish procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress of the project in accordance with
sound accounting practices.
26.    The project will maintain accounts on cash basis like other Government departments. The
project shall maintain accounts in a computerized system, and the project books of accounts should
be kept up-to-date on a daily basis. Activity-based subsidiary record for monitoring of detail
accounts/key indicators will also be maintained by the project. The accounting structure will reflect
the relevant chart of accounts broken down into types of expenditure by project components.
27.    Staffing. Provision is made in the project to provide for a full time long-term Deputy
Director (Finance and Administration), one Accounts Officer and one Assistant-cum-computer
operator. The Deputy Director (Finance and Administration) shall be at least a partly qualified
professional or an MBA in finance. All incumbents shall be computer literate. Proper training will
be provided to the financial management staff of the project so that they can operate the financial
management and reporting functions efficiently. In addition, DNFE will recruit accountants or
designate staff at each of their divisional/district offices; if newly recruited, they shall be on contract
basis. These accountants/designated staff will assist in the financial management of the project in
the field offices and maintain appropriate records and prepare and submit Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) to the DNFE's head office and PIMU.
28.   Budgeting. There shall be proper arrangements and procedures for financial planning, the
mechanism for formulating project budgets and consistency of budgets with financial management
reporting requirements. PIMU will submit an annual budget of the project in line with GOB Annual
Development Program to IDA by May 31 of each year taking into consideration the physical work
implementation plan of the project for the coming year.
29.   Internal-Controls and Roles and Responsibilities. Adequate staffing and proper segregation
of duties and defined responsibilities in PIMU will ensure the project's intemal control. Policies,
procedures and guidelines to safeguard project resources and assets will be included in the PIP. The
functional/reporting relationship among units and the implementing agencies will also be included in
the PIP. The PIMU will be responsible for maintaining the project accounts and preparing financial
statements and reports for the project. The Finance Section of DNFE will oversee the financial
management of the project. The District Coordinators of DNFE will review the expenditures of the
concemed NGOs and other non-formal education providers who will be involved with the
implementation of the project activities in the rural areas of the country.
30.   Reporting System. During Negotiations, agreement was reached with GOB that Project
Management Reports will be submitted to IDA as per agreed formats within 45 days from the end of
each quarter. The agreed formats are included in the Financial Management Manual. Each PMR
will include: (a) Financial Statements, comprising Sources and Uses of Funds; Usage of Funds by
Project Activities; Cash Withdrawals; Cash Forecasts; and Special Account Statements; (b) Output
Monitoring Reports; and (c) Procurement Monitoring Reports. The financial statements required
during the period the project is disbursing under the traditional method of disbursement, will include
(i) Section I (Financial Reports) of the Project Management Report (PMR), and (ii) a Schedule of
Statement of Expenditures Withdrawals (SOE Withdrawals) in the format provided in the"
- 70 -



Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook" of the World Bank, dated January 1995.
Once the project converts to PMR-based disbursement, the financial statements will include the full
set of PMRs in the formats agreed with IDA.
31.   Flow of Funds. IDA and SDC will provide funds for the project activities. The funds will
be deposited in two convertible Special Accounts. The Govermnent contribution, which will be
included in the Annual Development Plan (ADP), will be disbursed by the Chief Accounts Officer
(CAO) against bills submitted by the Project Director (PD). The NGOs and other non-formal
education providers will be paid on periodical basis as per terms of contract to be reached with them.
32.   Audit Requirements and Arrangements. IDA requires that audited financial statements of
the project, in accordance with standards acceptable to IDA, are submitted within six months from
the end of each fiscal year. Examples of standards on auditing that are acceptable to IDA include
the International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Federation of Accountants or
Auditing Standards issued by the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions. The
Foreign Aided Projects Audit Directorate (FAPAD) of the Office of the Comptroller and Auditor
General (C&AG) will conduct the audit of the Project Accounts, Special Accounts, and PMRs. This
is acceptable to IDA. A draft TOR for such audit has already been prepared and agreed with the
Borrower during Negotiations.
33.   Perfonnance Audits. In addition to C&AG's audits, two independent performance audits
including review of the financial management system and verification of procurement will be carried
out. The first performance audit will cover two and half years from the date of the Credit
Effectiveness while the second performance audit will cover up to March 31, 2005. To meet these
deadlines, the first auditor will be appointed by June 2002, and the second by September 30, 2004.
The cost for such audits will be eligible for financing under the proposed Credit. Auditors to carry
out the performance audits will have to be acceptable to IDA. A TOR for such audits has been
agreed with the Borrower during Negotiations.
34.   Flow of Information for Accounting. In view of the number of NGOs and other non-formal
education providers involved in the implementation of the project, it is important that different Gov
ermnent agencies, NGOs and other non-formal education providers share the responsibility for
financial management with adequate coordination by the proposed PIMU. The PIMU will
coordinate with different NGOs and other non-formal education providers and Govermment agencies
for timely submission of reliable information/documents for the preparation of SOEs/PMRs that will
be required under the project. A standardized reporting format will be prepared to capture financial
information from the NGOs and other non-formal education providers.
35.   Action Plan for Improvement of Financial Management Capacity. DNFE's accounts are
currently maintained manually, and accordingly, they are not suitable to generate accurate PMRs
promptly. A Finance Cell will be set-up under PIMU and a time bound action plan for strengthening
the financial management capacity of the project was agreed with GOB during Negotiations.
Progress in implementation of the action plan will be closely monitored by GOB and IDA and,
subject to satisfactory progress, PMR-based disbursements will be introduced by December 31,
2001.
- 71 -



Financial Management Action Plan
Issues/Problems                                Agreed Actions
1. Staffing: DNFE has inadequate staff for  * DNFE/PIMU will select one Deputy Director (Finance
project financial management.                 and Administration), one Accounts Officer and one
Assistant-cum-Computer Operator for PIMU before
Credit Effectiveness.
2. Financial Management Manual             * DNFE will revise the Financial Management Manual in
consultation with IDA by February 15, 2001.
3. Training                                * Three project staff will be trained in operating the
computerized system designed by the Consultant and
installed in DNFE immediately after Credit
Effectiveness.
- 72 -



Attachment 1
Procedure for Selection of NGOs and other non-formal education providers
1.   NGO Service: NGOs and other non-formal education providers will play an important role in
the implementation of post literacy activities, establishment and operation of Continuing Education
Centers, provisions of life skills training, vocational training, program-monitoring, evaluation and
technical supervision. Since the non-formal education sector is in the evolving stage across the country
and the project by its nature is of innovative type requiring knowledge of issues and community needs, a
large number of NGOs and other non-formal education providers are expected to contribute in the
process through their specific knowledge and skills. Alongside the big NGOs with diversity of activities
including non-formal education, there are small NGOs with exclusive expertise specifically in the
non-formal education including provisions for skill training. At times, capacity building through
training of small NGOs and other non-formal education providers may be useful. All such NGOs and
other non-formal education providers will have opportunity to use their local skills through participatory
approach. Two sets of NGOs and other non-formal education providers will provide services: one for
the implementation of post-literacy (PL) and continuing education (CE) program (Program
Implementation NGOs: PI-NGO); and the other for monitoring, evaluation and technical supervision of
PLCE program, known as Program Organizers (PM-NGO) - sometimes called project field workers.
2.   Program Implementation Contract Package: The PLCE program will be implemented by
PI-NGOs in 230 Upazilas, each with 30 centers, with a total of 6,900 centers. Each Upazila will have
two contract packages (units), each with 15 centers, with an estimated cost of not exceeding US$40,000
per package per year.
3.   Program Monitoring Contract Package: Monitoring, evaluation and technical supervision of
PLCE program will be carried out by PM-NGOs in 230 Upazilas. Each Upazila will form one contract
package with an estimated cost of not exceeding US$40,000 for the entire project period.
4.   Selection of NGOs and other non-formal education providers: DNFE will procure services
from the NGOs and other non-formal education providers following the fixed budget selection
procedure (i.e. in accordance with a budget disclosed in the request for project proposals or RPP).
However, since the budget remains fixed along with the line items, the NGOs and other non-formal
education providers will submit technical proposals only. DNFE will prepare an RPP for the selection
of NGOs and other non-formal education providers in accordance with a sample request for project
proposals (SRPP) acceptable to IDA. The SRPP will disclose the budget including the line items. As
agreed during Negotiations, DNFE submitted a revised SRPP.
5.   The existing NGO selection criteria used by the DNFE are based on the principles of competition
among potential NGOs and will generally also apply for the selection of both PI and PM NGOs.
However, in order to ensure more transparency in the selection process, the proposal evaluation criteria
need to be disclosed and, in the light of the new PLCE implementation and monitoring activities, these
criteria need to be expanded and adapted in a way described in the following paragraphs. To be eligible
for the selection, NGOs and other non-formal education providers must meet the following criteria:
- 73 -



PI-NGO
Eligibility Criteria
1. be registered with the concerned authorities of the government;
2. be a non-profit and non-political organization;
3. have a duly approved constitution as per relevant registration Act and hold election regularly
as provided in the constitution;
4. have properly constituted managing body with clearly defined rules and responsibilities of
office bearers;
5. have established/registered office premises with postal and location address;
6. have at least 3 years registration of which experience in the field of non-formal education for
at least 2 years;
7. have a successful program and /or willing to work in one or more of the selected upazilas;
8. have trained managerial and teaching personnel for non-formal education preferably has or
can arrange adequate physical facilities for holding classes;
9. have ability/provision to bear the overhead cost (maintenance of office/ salaries/wages of
management personnel etc.) from its own resources;
10. have a good system of maintaining accounts, which should be duly audited, and a good
reporting system of progress of project implementation;
11. have ability to undertake baseline survey of project upazila and maintain data base of its own;
12. have network of infrastructure in the operational/designated area or the ability to
build/expand the same required;
13. have program for development of women and children (good record of service will also be
given preference); and
14. not to seek or receive fund from more than one source for the same program in the same area;
PM-NGO
Eligibility Criteria: same as that of the PI-NGO with one more criteria: PI-NGO will not be
eligible for PM NGO in the same Upazila and vice-versa. Other criteria remain unaltered.
6.   Inviting Proposals: For PI NGOs, every year, DNFE will advertise the letter of invitation in at
least one newspaper of national circulation, seeking proposals from the relevant NGOs and other
non-formal education providers for all contract packages designated for that year. The proposal
submission period shall not be less than 28 days from the date of publication of the notice or the date of
availability of the RPP, whichever is later. For PM NGOs, the procedure is the same except that they
will be for the entire project period.
7.   Interested NGOs and other non-formal education providers must obtain the RPP from DNFE and
- 74 -



submit proposals in accordance with it. NGOs and other non-formal education providers will submit
separate proposals for each Upazila indicating the number of contract packages that it is interested for.
However, DNFE will determine the number of contract packages to be awarded to a particular NGO on
the basis of the procedure described in paragraph 10.
8.   Eligibility and Evaluation of Proposals: The evaluation committee appointed by DNFE will
evaluate the proposals on the basis of the eligibility criteria, followed by the evaluation criteria. The
evaluation committee will first scrutinize proposals on the basis of the "eligibility criteria" described in
paragraph 5. A proposal shall be rejected at this stage as ineligible and shall not be considered for
detailed evaluation if it does not meet the eligibility criteria.
9.   Detailed evaluation of proposals of the eligible NGOs and other non-formal education providers
only shall be carried out in accordance with the "evaluation criteria" described below. However, during
implementation of the project, these criteria may be subject to revisions/adjustments.
(i)    Experience                                                          10 points
(a) years of experience of implementing non-forrnal education program
(b) years of experience of implementing non-formal education program under the DNFE
(ii)   Experience in experimental programs on PLCE                         5 points
(iii).  Performance                                                        15 points
(a)   attendance of learners and teachers
(b)  leamers achievements
(c)   dropouts and repetition
(d)  timely supply of materials to the centers/learners
(e)  timely disbursement of honorarium to facilitators, supervisors and staff
(f)   monitoring and evaluation reporting
(g)  timely submission of statement of expenditures
(h)  regularity of meeting Center Management Committee
(i)  round up of NFE activities (# of times participated in NFE activities)
(j)   clean record of performance
(iv).  Institutional Capacity                                              10 points
(a)  financial situation as reflected in audit report
(b)   number and type of staff, i.e., team composition and task assignments
(c)   qualification and experience of proposed professional staff
(d)  training facilities
(e)   office logistics, equipment and materials
(v).   Familiarity with the area                                           5 points
(a)   establishment of NGO office in the program area
(b)   years of working experience in the area
(vi).  Linkage and Network of the Organization                             5 points
(a)   working experience with government / non-government institutions
(b)   membership with networking or professional bodies
(c)  integrated community development activities undertaken by the NGO
- 75 -



Total:                                                           50 points
Minimum technical score required to pass:                        25 points
After the evaluation of quality is completed, the Evaluation Committee will prepare a list of the
technically qualified NGOs and other non-formal education providers and place before the Subvention
Sub-committee. After review of the Subvention Sub-committee, DNFE will submit to IDA for review
the evaluation report, including the list of technically qualified NGOs and other non-formal education
providers, together with their scores/ranking. After IDA's no objection to the evaluation report, the
Subvention Committee in accordance with paragraph 10 below, will finally select the NGOs and other
non-formal education providers and allocate to them contract packages (units).
10.  Determination of Award of Contracts:
The Subvention Committee will decide the maximum number of contract packages to be awarded
to a NGO on the basis of the following:
(a)  score;
(b)  availability of contract packages (units);
(c)  number of contract packages applied for;
(d)  preferred areas; and
(e)  equity considerations (inclusion of substantial number of eligible NGOs and other non-formal
education providers).
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Projfe ;c; cI .                                    Planned
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       17                            19
First Bank mission (identification)              10/15/98                      10/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      03/01/2000                    05/20/2000
Negotiations                                     09/15/2000                    12/09/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/2001                    04/01/2001
Prepared by:
Primary and Mass Education Division (PMED) - Directorate of Non-Formal Education. The GOB
Project Preparation Team (PPT) included: Kazi Farid Ahmed, Director Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation, DNFE (August 2000 onwards); Mohd. Nuruzzaman Khan, Director Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation, DNFE (until July 2000); Nazimul Ghani, Deputy Director Planning, DNFE (August 2000
onwards); Sahadat Hussain, Assistant Director Planning, DNFE (until July 2000); Md. Monzurul Islam,
Assistant Director, Social Mobilization and Continuing Education, DNFE; Qurratul Ayen Safdar,
Assistant Chief, PMED; and Shahidul Islam, Statistical Officer, DNFE.
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Ana Maria Jeria                    Sr. Human Resources Specialist/Task Team Leader
Irajen Appasamy                    Operations Analyst
Hena G. Mukherjee                  Lead Education Specialist/Education Team Leader
Habibur Rahman                     Education Specialist
Nancy Zhao                         Operations Advisor
Nurul Alam                         Sr. Manager
Zafrul Islam                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
M. Mozammal Hoque                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Nazma Sultana                      Program Assistant
Deborah Ricks                      Program Assistant
Mohammad Sayeed                    Disbursement Officer
Sara Gonzalez -Flavell             Senior Counsel
William B. Herbert                 Social Sector Team Leader
Akhtar Hamid                       Lead Counsel
Aya Aoki                           Education Specialist
Pamela Hunte                       Sr. Social Scientist
Emmanuel Jimenez                   Sector Director
Ralph Harbison                     Sector Director
Alexandra Valerio                  Education Specialist
- 77 -



The following persons also worked on the project:
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC):
Annamarie Minder                  Deputy Resident Coordinator/First Secretary
Suzanne Muller                    Deputy Resident Coordinator/First Secretary
Tabassum Sakhawat                 Program Officer (Education)
Peer Reviewers:
Mae Chu Chang                     Lead General Educator
John Oxenham                      Sr. Training Officer, WBIES
Haneen I. Sayed                   Adviser to E.D.
John Comings                      Director, NCSALL, Harvard University
Kazi Rafiqul Alam                 Executive Director, Dhaka Ahsania Mission, Bangladesh
Abu Hamid Latif                   Professor, Dhaka University, Bangladesh
Consultants:
Christine Smith                   Education Specialist
Shiva Raj Lohani                  Economist
Dan Moulton                       Education/Management Specialist
Jeanne Moulton                    Education Specialist
Mokhlesur Ralman                  Procurement Specialist
Upali Sedere                      Management Specialist
Rudolf Schoch                     Management Specialist
A.Z. Choudhury                    Financial Management Specialist
Mohammed Nawaz                    Lawyer
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, Primary and Mass Education Division, Directorate of
Non-Formal Education Project Implementation Plan (PIP) 2001-2006. (Revised) Dhaka: January 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Ahmed, Mahbub. Survey of Studies Relating to NFE/Literacy Quality, Efficiency and Impact (Draft)
Dhaka: July 1999.
Haq, Nazmul M. A Survey on Monitoring and Evaluation Tools and Practices (Draft) Dhaka: July 1999.
Lohani, Shiva Raj. Working Paper on Economic and Financial Analysis, Dhaka: November 1998.
Lohani, Shiva Raj and Alexandria Valerio. Economic and Poverty Analysis. Washington, DC: September
1999.
Mia, Ahmadullah. NGOs'Participation in Post-Literacy: Bangladesh Situation (Draft) Dhaka: July
1999.
Moulton, Dan. Implementation Strategy: Institutional Issues and Capacity Building, Dhaka: November
1998.
Rahman, Reza S. and Hosne Ara Begum, Report on the Survey of Post-Literacy and Continuing
Education Programs and Materials (Draft) Dhaka: July 1999.
Smith, Christine. Working Paper - Educational Program Issues, Dhaka: November 1998.
World Bank Bangladesh - Post Literacy and Continuing Education Project - Summary and Detailed
Project Costs. Washington, DC: September 26, 2000.
World Bank Draft Technical Papers - Preparation Mission, Washington DC: November 23, 1999.
World Bank Draft Technical Papers - Appraisal Mission, Washington, DC: June 2000.
World Bank Monitoring and Evaluation, Washington, DC (Draft - June 5, 2000).
C. Other
Directorate of Non-Formal Education. Validation of Learner Assessment on NFE Achievement in Phase I
of Non-Formal Education Project-1, 1998.
Directorate of Non-Formal Education. Annual Report, 1997-98. Dhaka, Bangladesh: September 8, 1998.
PMED-DNFE. Financial Management Manual, Dhaka Draft (December 5, 2000).
- 79 -



Rahman, Reza Shamsur. Evaluation Study of the DNFE Training Programme. Dhaka, Bangladesh:
Directorate of Non-Formal Education, Primary and Mass Education Division, Govermuent of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh, December 1997.
Sedere, Mohottige Upali (Team Leader). Final Report on Financing Non-Formal Education in the
Context of Bangladesh Education Sector. Dhaka, Bangladesh: Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation, September 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 80 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P057833       2001 Air Quality Management Project                      0.00      4.71                  0.00      0.00       4.66       0.00      0.00
P069933       2001 HIVIAIDS Prevention                                 0.00     40.00                  0.00      0.00      39.75       0.00      0.00
P044811       2000 Financial Institutions Development                  0.00     46.90                  0.00      0.00      35.63      12.47      0.00
P049587       2000 Aquabc Biodiversity Conservabon                     0.00      0.00                  5.00      0.00       4.77       1.16      0.00
P058468       2000 Agncultural Ser. Innovation & Reform                0.00      5.00                  0.00      0.00       3.22       0.76      0.00
P00946B       2000 Fourth Fisheres                                     0.00     28.00                  5.00      0.00      25.42       9.97      0.00
P050751       2000 National Nutrition Program                          0.00     92.00                  0.00      0.00      84.91      -1.90      0.00
P050745       1999 Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply                     0.00     32.40                 0.00       0.00      28.95      20.27      0.00
P041887       1999 Municipal Services                                  0.00    138.60                  0.00      0.00     128.32     132.59      0.00
P037294       1999 Third Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance             0.00    273.00                  0.00      0.00     234.88      97.08      0.00
P049790       1999 Export Diversification                              0.00     32.00                  0.00      0.00      23.11       7.60      0.00
P009524        1999 Dhaka Urban Transport                              0.00    177.00                  0.00      0.00     151.59      42.94      0.00
P044789        1998 Private Sector Infrastuctue Dev                    0.00    235.00                  0.00      0.00     212.58     170.55      0.00
P009550       1998 Pnmary Education Development                        0.00    150.00                  0.00      11.94    111.10      49.05      0.86
P040713       1998 Silk Development Pilot Project                      0.00     11.40                  0.00      0.00       8.72       5.68      0.00
P037857       1998 Health and Population Program                       0.00    250.00                  0.00      0.00     137.67      15.00      0.00
P009482       1997 Dhaka Water & Sanitation IV                         0.00     80.30                  0.00      0.26      42.98      44.24      0.00
P009518        1997 Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvement           0.00    133.00                  0.00      0.00      29.84      -3.85      17.48
P040985       1997 Poverty Alleviation (Microcredit 1)                 0.00    105.00                  0.00      0.00       1.77       8.01      0.00
P009549        1996 Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation                  0.00     53.00                  0.00      0.00       6.83      -3.50      8.79
P009545       1990 RiverBank Protetion                                 0.00    121.90                  0.00      0.87      16.78      -1.23     22.63
P009560        1996 Non-Formal Educaton                                0.00     10.50                  0.00      0.00       2.98       2.17      0.00
P009484       1996 Agriculture Research Management                     0.00     50.00                 0.00       1.37       9.75      16.25      2.74
P009496        1995 Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition                    0.00     59.80                  0.00      0.58      21.27      21.29      0.00
P009465        1994 Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance           0.00    146.80                  0.00      0.00      10.79     -67.69      0.00
P009555       1993 Female Secondary School                             0.00     68.00                  0.00      0.00       2.94       2.61      2.62
P009470        1992 Forest Resources Management                        0.00     49.60                  0.00      3.29       7.40       9.64      -0.33
Total:       0.00    2393.91               10.00        18.33    1388.58     591.16      54.79
- 81 -



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                DBH                            0.00    0.65     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.65      0.00    0.00
1991                Dynamic Textile                1.86    0.00     0.00     1.48     1.86    0.00     0.00    1.48
1998                Grameen Phone                 16.67     1.58    0.00     0.00    13.33    1.58     0.00    0.00
1985/95             TDLC                           0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1980/98             IPDC                           10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Khulna                        20.81     0.00    0.00     0.00   20.81     0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                Scancem                        10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         59.34     2.23    0.00     1.48    46.00     2.23     0.00     1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               ULC - Bangladesh                5000.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               USPCL                              0.00   4000.00   3000.00       0.00
2000               Haripur                        40000.00      0.00      0.00  14100.00
2000               Jalalabad II                   30000.00  10000.00      0.00  30000.00
1998               Khulna                             0.00      0.00   3300.00      0.00
2000               Lafarge B Loan                     0.00      0.00      0.00  15000.00
1998               Lafarge Surma                  35000.00      0.00  10000.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    110000.00  14000.00  16300.00  59100.00
- 82 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South       Low-
Bangladesh       Asia  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       127.6      1,329     2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      370       440        410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       47.0       581        988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          1.6        1.9       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         2.1        2.3       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    36
Urban population (% of total population)                 21        28         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         61        62         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 57        75         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               68         51        43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        84         77        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     47        46         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    96        100        96      Bangladesh
Male                                                   93       110        102                  Low-income group
Female                                                100        90         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            15.6     27.0       44.1      45.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 14.9     17.2       21.6      22.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP              4.5      5.7       13.3      13.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     5.9      9.6       16.7      16.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    10.5      13.1      20.9      20.9
Current account balance/GDP                   -1.8     -5.1       -1.2      -1.9      Dmsi
Interest payments/GDP                          0.3      0.5        0.4       0.4     Domestic                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                                21.1     41.1       37.1      37.2      Savmgs
Total debt service/exports                    26.6     21.3       10.2      10.4
Present value of debtlGDP                                         22.9
Present value of debt/exports                                    150.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   4.       4.8      5.2        4.8       5.1      Sangladesh
GNP per capita                        2.0      3.2       3.6       3.4       3.5                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         6.1     14.2     12.4        6.0       4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GP%
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   36.7     26.0       19.1      19.6       T
Industry                                      20.7     20.4       24.6      24 3     '0
Manufacturing                               14.5      13.1      15.6       14,9     s
Services                                      42.6     53.6       56.1      56.2      o
Private consumption                           92.2     86.2       78.6      78.7            94   95   96   97   99   99
General government consumption                 1.9      4.1        4.7       4.6                   GDI       '*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 13.5     13.3       18.3      18.7
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.7      1.6        1.6       3.3
Industry                                       4.1      7.3        8.3       4.9                  S
Manufacturing                                2.8       7.2       8.5        3.2
Services                                       54       50         5.2       5.3    25            s     s       9
Private consumption                            4.6      3.0        1.3       2.2
General government consumption                 4.9      5.6       13.2      -0.2                   s    96   97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                      2.2      8.4       12.1       9.8   -20
Imports of goods and services                  4.6     10.0       -0.3       5.0            -Exports           Imports
Gross national product                         4.6      4.9        5.2       5.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 83 -



Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                      12
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..      8.4        7.0       7.2
Implicit GDP deflator                         10.9      7.7        5.3       4.7
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..      9.5        9.3       9.7            94   95    96    97    98    9
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        2.1       1.1            - GDP deflator  -       CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -5.3        -4.1     -4.8
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   1,286       5,172    5,523      10,00o
Jute goods                                     ..      97        108        72
Leather and leather products                  ..      137        190      275      7.500
Manufactures                                   ..    871       4,531     3,515
Total imports (cif)                             ..   3,390       7,525    8,381      5,000
Food                                                  555        373      915       2.-
Fuel and energy                               ..      285        506      515           7    "
Capital goods                                 ..   1,070       1,342     1,295        o
92  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      62       109       107
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..      93       101        99                  i Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       67       108       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 724    1,603       5,879    6,251      o
Imports of goods and services                1,675    3,716      8,049    8,824
Resource balance                              -951   -2,113    -2,170    -2,573       T1
Net income                                     -22     -108       -100     -109
Net current transfers                         696       835      1,750     1,806 
Current account balance                       -278   -1,386       -520     -875     4                  1                I
Financing items (net)                         425    1,452        651       994
Changes in net reserves                       -147      -66       -131     -118    *s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..    1,739      1,772
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)              15.2     33.2       45.4     48.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         3,282   11,118     16,376    16,994
IBRD                                         55       62         36        33                      G:250
IDA                                         770    3,441      6,163     6,428               F:369         A: 32
Total debt service                            237       522       683       728
IBRD                    S                               6         6         7        E: 5,097                      :6,428
IDA                                           6       35        105       119
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             495       772       657       810
Official creditors                          533      975        359       248
Private creditors                             9       -25       -23       -10
Foreign direct investment                     0         0       308       279 C:290
Portfolio equity                              0         0         3        10                 D: 4,527
World Bank program
Commitments                                 202      417        646       595      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               163      299        347       441      B-IDA    D-Otherrmultilateral  F-Ptnvate
Principal repayments                          0        13        66        78      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                    163      286        281       363
Interest payments                            10       28         45        49
Net transfers                               152      258        236       314
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/25/00
- 84 -



IBRD 24206R1
BANGLADESH
(t I8NCNAGA    I><
i Thakugcnm                                                                                  ----bDISTRICT BOUNDARIES
JTHAKURGAON          NilpmR                                                                          DIVISION BOUNDARIES
Mmo, __ tONj .IRhN             )INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-INAJPUR     .
ODinaipur        RANGPUR        KUR                                   MILES              25           so           75
dh         ~I                                      I
,            {^~~~~~~Goibondh   f                                 I       I 
0 - -  O    B                    KILOMETERS  0        25      50      75     100
oyu  GA/aANDN.                                  -%               17 '               -          -
NAOGAON   -JyP-` \                          SERPUR                                S.an.mo,
O~ r AJS H A       19 tlaopv\ NETROKONA  SUNAMGANJ            SYLHET
) *J R~~AJSJA  HI                                                               ONet,-oko,,                    * SyIIhel
,   Naogoo,,0           0 Bogra       JAMALPUR                                                                 
NO   GANJ <              ,            BOGRA   -                        OMymensingh ,L
9,.wobg ,n   . AS. N                    S      '                      MYMENSINGH  -   r- -   -I
MX(    RA/SHAH   :   . Seraigni   D  H  A   K  A   i HABIGANJ    OMoul= )rJ
'x9v  RAJSHAI                                  D      RATtR  A       K  fi><-A                           MOULVtBAAR
Naore    _  SERAIGANj      TANGAi    KISHORGANJ       0Habign
a                   t~~~-      tTNAI il          "-                     ,<>  Nabg|o
OTong,il
GOo  R.
I NDIA         i                  Po   A   -ARSIN GAZIPUR
'KU SE                                  DHAN                       Bana                  INDIA
BARI                                   Si         BAR
LCHUADANGA, Jheooidah h nFridp*
JHENAI DAH                                                   COM
>  0Moguro  FARIDPIJR         Assgn         <-NCmIo
J                                                      --                           - --:JESSORE  NARI  ADARIPUR  K
2A R                                       BA   L         UX v    MIP         PI .  . .    Kht rocl ah
INDIA  /{    07a                                              .  -   - -  .    .    .         -E -JPUR) 
?SATKHI-IZIR  KHULN     GRHT        0p
>    Pa okhali  RN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
bfth-M.      U"itok*                                                      M           B3  E                                          BAN
MAY1 988



