Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3467 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3467 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of Switzerland, acting 
through the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), a grant in an amount 
of  $7,000,000 (the Swiss Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SDC; and
(C) the Government of Switzerland and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement (the Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to 
process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided by 
the Government of Switzerland under the Swiss Grant Agreement and regulating certain 
other matters of common interest in connection with such financing.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 
1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; 
and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods 
produced in,  or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision 
of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of 
the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CBO" means a Community Based Organization operating in the territory of 
the Borrower;
(b)
"CEC" means a Continuing Education Center, responsible for post-literacy 
and continuing education activities;
(c)
"DNFE" means the Directorate of Non-Formal Education within PMED, and 
includes any successor thereto;
(d)
"Eligible Categories" means, in respect of the Special Account for the 
Credit, Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and, in respect of the Special Account for the Swiss 
Grant, Categories (2) and (3) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Expenditures" means, in respect of the Special Account for the 
Credit, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and, in respect of the 
Special Account for the Swiss Grant, the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Swiss Grant allocated from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible 
Categories;
(f)
"FY" or "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing 
July 1 and ending June 30 of each year;
(g)
"National Framework" means the national framework for non-formal 
education referred to in Part A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(h)
"NFEP" means a non-formal education provider, being an NGO, a CBO or a 
PVO;
(i)
"NGO" means a Non-Governmental Organization operating in the territory of 
Page  3
the Borrower;
(j)
"PIMU" means the Project Implementation Management Unit within DNFE;
(k)
"PMED" means the Borrower’s Primary and Mass Education Division and 
includes any successor thereto;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m)
"PO" means Program Organizer at the upazila level;
(n)
"PVO" means a Private Voluntary Organization operating in the territory 
of the Borrower;
(o)
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and "Special Accounts" means all such accounts 
collectively;
(p)
"Swiss Grant Account" means the account opened by the Association on its 
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Swiss Grant is credited;
(q)
"Taka" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(r)
"Upazila" means an administrative sub-district of the Borrower; and
(s)
"Union" means an administrative sub-district of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-one million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and the amount of the Swiss Grant may be withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account, all 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant, respectively.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate 
set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: 
(i) 
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
Page  4
of, the Borrower; and 
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of that 
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2011, and ending February 15, 
2041.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2021 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i)
the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and 
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six 
months or more after the date on which the 
Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and non-formal education practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested 
including separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditures 
submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to 
support the necessary withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account and the Swiss Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account and the Swiss Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications 
of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following 
the 
period covered by said report; and
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit and the Swiss Grant during the period 
covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant 
during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit and the Swiss Grant, as at the end of the period 
covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Grant, shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Swiss Grant Agreement.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(i) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
the Swiss Grant Agreement; and
(ii) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  7
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur,  subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the Project has been 
approved by the Borrower; 
(b)
key PIMU staff have been appointed by the Borrower; and 
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Swiss Grant 
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant Secretary, 
Senior Assistant Chief, Assistant Secretary or Assistant Chief of the Economic 
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Eonomic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
(880-2)-811-3088
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Page  8
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit and the Swiss Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of 
Amount of the
the Credit
Swiss Grant
 % of
  Allocated
Allocated
Expendi-
(Expressed in    (Expressed in
 
tures to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   Dollars)    
Financed
(1) Goods
   980,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-
factory 
costs) and
80% of local 
expenditures for 
other items 
procured 
locally
(2)
Consultants’ 
      services, training
and dissemination
  2,900,000
      840,000
18%
(3) NFEP services
 33,800,000
    5,720,000
10%
(4) Incremental staff 
100% for FY 
2001 
     salaries and
and FY 2002, 
70%
     operating costs
    1,420,000
for FY 2003 and
FY 2004, and 
35%
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
  2,700,000
      440,000
 
TOTAL
 41,800,000
    7,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  9
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "training and dissemination" means local and international 
training, including study tours provided, and media campaigns, workshops and other 
such activities conducted, under the Project; and
(d)
the term "incremental staff salaries and operating costs" means: (i) the 
salaries and allowances of staff appointed to positions created in DNFE on or after 
January 1, 2001 for purposes of implementation of the Project; and (ii) the operation 
and maintenance costs of equipment and vehicles, and costs of consumables, procured 
under the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Swiss 
Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) for 
expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; 
(b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent for employment of 
firms and $50,000 for employment of individuals; (c) training and dissemination; and 
(d) incremental staff salaries and operating costs, all under such terms or conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Taka two separate special deposit 
accounts, one each for the Credit and the Swiss Grant, in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Swiss Grant 
Account, respectively, of amounts to be deposited into the Special Accounts shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received:
(i)
the first Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(ii)
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports,
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for such Special 
Account’s Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of each 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for such Special Account’s Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant 
Account, as the case may be; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of:
Page  10
(i) 
the records and accounts for such Special Account; or
(ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure or Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
or the Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into such Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure for 
such Special Account,  or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into such Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for such Special Account’s 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Swiss Grant 
Agreement, as the case may be.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (a) in 
respect of the Special Account for the Credit, an amount equivalent to Tk.270,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into said Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to Tk.162,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 9,000,000; and (b) in 
respect of the Special Account for the Swiss Grant, an amount equivalent to 
Tk.37,800,000 to be withdrawn from the Swiss Grant Account and deposited into said 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to Tk.21,600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Swiss Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of any Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of any Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Page  11
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into such 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed such 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant Account, 
as the case may be, and deposit into such Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of any Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into such Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, and deposit into such Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of such Special Account for such 
Special Account’s Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into such Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant 
Account, as the case may be, under one or more of such Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Swiss Grant, as the 
case may be, allocated to such Special Account’s Eligible Categories, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Swiss Grant, as the case may be, allocated to 
such Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of such Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the 
Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit  or the Swiss Grant, as the case may be, allocated to such Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for such Special Account’s Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, 
shall be deposited by the Association into the respective Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into 
any Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or 
the Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, under one or more of such Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant 
Account, as the case may be, for deposit into any Special Account shall be supported 
by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or 
the Swiss Grant, as the case may be, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Swiss Grant Account, as the case may be, and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance such Special Account’s Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount 
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in such Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
Tk.540,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for the Credit, and Tk.75,600,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for the Swiss Grant.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  12
The objective of the Project is to increase the functional application of 
literacy skills by providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates 
through a comprehensive and enhanced system of non-formal education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Promotion of Enhanced and Comprehensive Non-Formal Education
1.
Development of a national framework for non-formal education, (the National 
Framework), and advocating and dissemination of the concepts, definitions, strategies, 
principles and initiatives proposed thereunder.
2.
Development of a national perspective plan with a long term vision for the 
non-formal education sector.
3.
Carrying out of studies on the desirability and feasibility of equivalency 
programs.
Part B:  Support for Post-Literacy Implementation
Carrying out of post-literacy courses through Non-Formal Education Providers 
(NFEPs), based on successful pilot models.
Part C:
Establishment of Continuing Education Services
1.
Provision of support for CECs to extend the reach of continuing education 
opportunities.
2.
Provision of assistance to NFEPs to develop and offer courses demanded by 
learners at CECs.
3.
Provision of support for the Program Organizers (POs) to link CECs with 
organizations and services aimed at neo-literates.
4.
Carrying out of continuing education activities through NFEPs, based on 
neo-literates needs and interest and local demands for skills.
Part D:
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
1.
Provision of assistance to DNFE for strengthening its planning, administrative, 
financial, technical, information and monitoring systems, in order to support the 
management of enhanced DNFE activities.
2.
Provision of support for the assessment of staff development needs and 
preparation and implementation of plans for local and international training in the 
field of non-formal education.
*          *          *          *          *
This Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Page  13
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines:
(i)
standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be 
used;
(ii)
invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper and bidding documents 
shall be 
made available to prospective bidders, at least 28 days 
prior to 
the deadline for the submission of bids;
(iii)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost;
(iv)
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, 
to all who are willing to pay the required fee;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not 
carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and 
if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm determined 
to be 
the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii)
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by 
courier service or by mail;
(viii)all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific 
bid;
(ix)
bids shall be opened in public in one place immediately, but no 
later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of 
bids;
(x)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and 
specified period agreed with the Association;
(xi)
a bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
Page  14
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of 
the Association;
(xii)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out.  When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which (A) if collusion is determined, 
the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall 
then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and 
(B) if 
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids 
shall 
be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association;
(xiii)contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within 
the initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not 
necessary.  Extension of bid validity may be sought only 
under exceptional 
circumstances;
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (A) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight weeks and (B) for all 
subsequent requests for extensions irrespective of the 
period;
(xv)
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any 
other bidders;
(xvi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s 
prior concurrence; and
(xvii)all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a 
supplier’s performance security shall apply to a specific contract 
under which it was furnished.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Journals, magazines and newspapers which may be procured directly off-the-shelf 
or through subscription, and costing $1,500 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and (b) the first two contracts procured in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in Part C, paragraph 1(a) of this Section (National 
Competitive Bidding), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants/NFEPs
1.
Selection of NFEPs
NFEP services for program delivery under Parts B and C of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for performance auditing and for other contracts estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Training and dissemination services under the Project may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for the tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of 
the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
Page  16
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, terms of 
reference for all contracts for consultant services shall be furnished to the 
Association for prior review and approval.
(d)
With respect to NFEP services, draft requests for project proposals, 
DNFE’s evaluation reports, and, in the case of services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract, also draft contracts shall be furnished 
to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contracts shall be awarded 
only after the said approvals shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2003, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall cause two performance audits of the Project to be carried 
out, the first covering a period of two and one-half years from the Effective Date, 
for purposes of which the auditors shall be appointed, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, not later than June 30, 
2002; and the second covering the next following period ending March 31, 2005, for 
purposes of which the auditors shall be appointed, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, not later than September 30, 2004. 
3.
The Borrower shall, through PMED/DNFE:
(a)
not later than August 31 2001, start the development of the National 
Framework towards preparation of a perspective plan with a long term vision by 
August 31, 2003. In carrying out this exercise, the Borrower shall ensure 
collaboration, inter alia, with all relevant individuals, groups and organizations 
involved in non-formal education in Bangladesh, such as intellectuals, expert 
academics, government agencies, non-governmental organizations, local communities and 
beneficiaries, at the national and sub-national levels;
(b)
not later than December 31, 2002, carry out studies on the desirability 
and feasibility of equivalency programs in Bangladesh;
(c)
not later than June 30, 2002, develop an advocacy and dissemination plan 
Page  17
in respect of the National Framework, and thereafter conduct advocacy and 
dissemination training and workshops at the national, district, upazila and union 
levels on a regular basis; and
(d)
from time to time and as dictated by the needs of the Project, develop 
and disseminate information, education and communications (IEC) materials and conduct 
a media campaign.
4.
The Borrower shall, through DNFE:
(a)
select post-literacy models, identify post-literacy locations, contract 
the services of NFEPs in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, train NFEPs and cause them to implement post-literacy training 
activities; 
(b)
from time to time and as dictated by the needs of the Project, establish 
CECs and Center Management Committees (CMCs), and employ and train Center 
Facilitators;
(c)
not later than June 30, 2001, establish Divisional Teams for purposes of 
supporting NFEPs in their task of improving, promoting and providing post-literacy and 
continuing education services;
(d)
not later than July 31, 2001, contract the services of  POs for purposes 
of linking learners with continuing education, credit and employment opportunities; 
(e)
in collaboration with the contracted NFEPs, implement continuing 
education activities in the targeted upazilas and villages; and
(f)
keep PIMU fully staffed throughout the Project implementation period.
5.
The Borrower shall, through DNFE/PIMU:
(a)
be responsible for the financial management, procurement, logistics, 
reporting to the Association on the project progress, and coordinating with the other 
PMED line departments;
(b)
(i) 
prepare annual plans of operation and supervise its effective 
implementation; 
(ii) 
prepare annual budgets, procurement plans and progress reports; 
(iii)
ensure the collection of field expenditure vouchers and prepare 
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and Project Management 
Reports to 
enable the timely replenishment of funds, auditing of the 
Project 
expenses and submission of the audited statements to the 
Association;
(iv)
support proper use of the Management Information System (MIS) and 
effective monitoring and evaluation of project activities; and
(v)
assist in the organization of seminars/workshops relevant to the 
Project; and
(c)
develop plans satisfactory to the Association to improve staff capacity 
and provide staff training.
