                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000795




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-34670 TF-28337)

                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41,800,000
                    (US$53.32 MILLION EQUIVALENT) AND

  A GRANT OF US$7,000,000 FROM THE SWISS AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
                             COOPERATION (SDC)

                                      TO

                  THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                    FOR A

  POST-LITERACY AND CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
                                  PROJECT




                                 July 15, 2008




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective March 18, 2008)
             Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
                 Taka 1.00 = US$ 0.0145858
                   US$ 1.00 = Taka 68.56

                       FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1 ­ June 30


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BBS         Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BDHS        Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey
BHES        Bangladesh Household and Expenditure Survey
C&AG        Comptrollers and Auditor General
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs        Country Based Organizations
CE          Continuing Education
CECs        Continuing Education Centers
CMC         Center Management Committee
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
DCOs         District Coordinators
DG          Director General
DNFE        Directorate of Non-Formal Education
DOAFAP       Directorate of Audit Foreign Aided Projects
EFA          Education for All
GER          Gross Enrollment Rate
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
INFEP        Integrated Non-Formal Education Program
INT          Department of Institutional Integrity
IS           International Shopping
MAs          Monitoring Associates
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          Management Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NFE          Non-Formal Education
NFEP          Non-Formal Education Provider
NGOs         Non-Government Organizations
NORAD        Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
NS           National Shopping
PCC          Project Coordination Committee
PCP           Project Concept Paper
PCT           Procurement Core Team
PIMU          Project Implementation Management Unit
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PL            Post-Literacy
PMED          Primary and Mass Education Division
PMRs          Project Management Reports


                              ii

PP                           Project Proforma
PROCMOR                      Procurement Monitoring Report
PRSP                         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PVOs                         Private Voluntary Organizations
QCBS                         Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SDC                          Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SIDA                         Swedish International Development Association
SIL                          Specific Investment Loan
SOE                          Statement of Expenditure
SRPP                         Sample Request for Project Proposal
TLM                          Total Literacy Movement
TSSU                         Technical Support Services Unit
UNICEF                       United Nations Children's Fund
UPOs                         Upazila Program Organizers
USAID                        United States Agency for International Development




        Vice President: Isabel Guererro
      Country Director: Xian Zhu
       Sector Manager: Amit Dar
   Project Team Leader: Mark F. LaPrairie
     ICR Team Leader: Mark F. LaPrairie




                                            iii

                                        Bangladesh
  Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development Project

                                        CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff.
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...............................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .............................. ......13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance....................................13
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................ 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing....................................................18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..........................................................19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results......................................................27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..................................30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft IC..............31
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...........43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents if any..........................................52
MAP ..........................................................................................53

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Post-Literacy and
                                                                      Continuing Education
Country:                Bangladesh              Project Name:
                                                                      for Human
                                                                      Development Project
Project ID:             P050752                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34670,TF-28337
ICR Date:               07/15/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:             GOB
Original Total
                        XDR 41.8M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 28.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MoPME)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/14/1999    Effectiveness:         06/11/2001        06/11/2001
                                                                              03/01/2005
Appraisal:             05/22/2000    Restructuring(s):
                                                                              03/30/2006
Approval:              02/27/2001    Mid-term Review:                         02/14/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower              Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Moderately
                                                                      Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators         (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                 Quality at Entry
                                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                     None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                           89                 89
Central government administration                             11                 11


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                            Primary           Primary
Improving labor markets                                      Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary           Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                              Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Xian Zhu                        Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:           Michelle Riboud                 Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project Team Leader:      Mark F. LaPrairie               Ana Maria Jeria
ICR Team Leader:          Mark F. LaPrairie
ICR Primary Author:       Hon Chan Chai



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main development objective is to increase the functional application of literacy
skills by providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates through a more
comprehensive and enhanced system of non-formal education (NFE). The project aims
at improving the provision of post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates so



                                            ii

that they can use literacy skills to increase their incomes, improve their welfare, and
participate fully as citizens.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO remains the same. Restructuring took place in order to re-allocate US$14m from
the PLCE-1 Credit to post-flood rehabilitation activities.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
                Number of beneficiaries achieving higher literacy competency levels: 1.3m basic
Indicator 1 :   literacy completers going on to PL and CE; PL completers demonstrating higher
                levels of competency.

Value                                                                        Approximately

quantitative or 0                         1.65m basic         1.36m PLCE 972,900 learners

Qualitative)                              literacy completerslearners.       completed the PL &
                                                                             CE programs
Date achieved 12/15/2006                  05/22/2002          05/31/2004     12/31/2007
Comments        Target revised based on incorrect calculation in GOB PP. MTR revised to 950K
(incl. %        to allow for 1.5-year implementation delay. As no formal change effected,
achievement)    1.36m target remained operative. 73% achievement (0.97m learners).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Learners achievement in literacy and numeracy skills. 30% of post-literacy
                completers demonstrating higher level of competency by end of PL phase.
                                                                             Learners#
                                                                             proficiency in
                                                                             various aspects of
                                                                             literacy and

Value                                                                        numeracy ranged

(quantitative   10%                       30%                                from 35 to 48

or Qualitative)                                                              percent; about 48
                                                                             percent of learners
                                                                             showed increased
                                                                             awareness of health
                                                                             care and family
                                                                             planning
Date achieved 12/15/2002                  06/30/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The project achieved 71.4 percent of beneficiary target graduating 0.97m

achievement)    learners.



                                               iii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP               Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
 1    09/17/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       2.87
 2    09/28/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       2.87
 3    03/28/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       2.89
 4    05/23/2002        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      3.11
 5    11/17/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       3.50
 6    04/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       5.91
 7    10/31/2003       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                      12.52
 8    03/23/2004       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                      15.63
 9    09/10/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                      17.72
10    09/16/2004       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                      17.72

11    03/03/2005       Unsatisfactory          Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                     18.36

12    08/31/2005       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                     20.83
13    02/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               21.86
14    08/23/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               24.55

15    02/22/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                     30.52

16    08/21/2007         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                     37.65



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
                                                        US$14m reallocated for post-
  03/01/2005        N         U       S        18.36    flood rehabilitation following
                                                        2004 cyclone disaster.
  03/30/2006                 MS     MU         22.34




                                         iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal
Project appraisal was carried out in May 2000. While poverty had been gradually reduced over
the previous decade (average per capita GNP was US$370 in 1999), about half the population of
128m lived in poverty, with one-third living in extreme poverty. Household expenditure studies
showed a strong and positive correlation between poverty and illiteracy. In 1996, poverty
incidence was 48 percent among illiterates, compared to 20 percent among literates. According to
government, the illiteracy level among the 15+ age group in 1999 was 42 percent. Total public
expenditure on education had increased from 1.5 percent in 1980 to 2.7 percent of GDP in 1998.
In-line with Education for All (EFA) goals, government was giving more attention to non-formal
education.

Prior to PLCE-1 coming on-stream, the Directorate of Non-Formal Education (DNFE) had run
four major literacy projects targeting 34.4m learners aged 8-45. The prevailing non-formal
education (NFE) system under the Directorate of Non-Formal Education (DNFE) could not
adequately respond to the needs of neo-literates who required a variety of post-literacy support.
DNFE literacy centers were not easily accessible to neo-literate learners and were inadequately
staffed and equipped. The strategy of focusing on providing literacy skills was not accompanied
by continuing education to provide life and vocational skills training, or income-generation and
credit programs. PLCE-1 was designed to address these issues.

1.2     Original Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The main development objective was to increase the functional application of literacy skills by
providing post-literacy and continuing education to neo-literates through a comprehensive and
enhanced NFE system. Progress toward achievement of the PDO was to be assessed by:
        (1)   increased number of beneficiaries achieving higher literacy competency levels
              expressed through better health practices, increased chances of better employment,
              productivity gains, and improved social awareness and attitudes;
        (2)   establishment of a National Framework for planning, development, organization
              and implementation of a new NFE system;
        (3)   production of a national Perspective Plan with a long-term vision;
        (4)   development and implementation of plans for advocacy and dissemination of PL
              and CE;
        (5)   increased number of NGOs and other NFE providers implementing PL activities,
              using new models;
        (6)   improved achievement of post-literacy learners in literacy and numeracy skills;
        (7)   establishment of Continuing Education Centers (CECs);
        (8)   development of ten quality CE courses with accompanying course materials;
        (9)   establishment of new procedures and mechanisms to strengthen participation
              among different stakeholders;
        (10) development of a sound financial management and procurement system; and
        (11) development of an enhanced M&E system with effective information flow
              mechanism and assessment.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised, although the key indicator for the beneficiary target was modified.
The original target of 1.65m learners was formally adjusted to 1.36m to correct a calculation error
in government's original Project Proforma (PP). At Mid-Term Review (MTR) in February 2004,



                                                 1

it was recommended that the target be further adjusted to 0.97m to account for an initial 18
months' delay in implementation. Since the Closing Date was extended twice, the 1.36m target
remained in effect. Restructuring took place in 2005 to re-allocate SDR 9.04m to rehabilitation
activities following the 2004 flood.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries,
The project originally expected to benefit 1.6m neo-literates, half of them women.
Implementation was delayed after effectiveness by about 18 months due to a change of
government, and the beneficiary target was adjusted to 1.36m learners. Although the Closing
Date was extended by two years to December 2007, only five of the seven planned
implementation phases could be completed. As of January 2008, a total of 972,900 learners (71.4
percent of the revised target) had completed the PLCE courses.

1.5      Original Components (as approved)
The project was designed with four main components and their sub-components, summarized
below.

Component 1: Promoting Enhanced and Comprehensive Non-Formal Education
(US$1.40m)
The overall goal was to enhance the NFE sector by establishing a National Framework and
launching advocacy and dissemination activities at various levels, and to strengthen/develop
procedures and linkages to enable DNFE to work collaboratively with other NFE stakeholders to
design and implement high-quality NFE programs.

Expected Outcomes: (a) Establishment of a national framework as a basis for planning,
developing, organizing and implementing a new NFE system; (b) promotion of a common
understanding of and consensus on an enhanced and comprehensive system of NFE among
stakeholders; (c) establishment of functional linkages among relevant groups and organizations;
(d) development of a national perspective plan with a long-term vision; and (e) setting-up a
system of advocacy and dissemination. Under the Project Coordination Committee (PCC),
PMED/DNFE would implement this component during the first two years of the project.

Sub-Component 1.1: National Framework.
The National framework would articulate the concepts of literacy, post-literacy and continuing
education; define priority target groups to receive post-literacy and continuing education, and
indicate modes of delivery, partnerships and implementation arrangements. The framework
would define how PLCE programs would be integrated with other development initiatives and
define linkages between government, NGOs and other organizations involved in the delivery of
social services.

Sub-Component 1.2: Advocacy and Dissemination
This sub-component would focus on advocating the concepts, definitions, framework, strategies,
principles and initiatives proposed under the National Framework. Advocacy and dissemination
workshops at the national, division, district, upazila and union levels would be held to ensure that
the reformed NFE system was widely understood and recognized.

Component 2: Supporting Post-Literacy Implementation (US$14.20m)
The purpose of this component was to provide additional training to individuals who had
completed the basic literacy course offered by DNFE and had acquired basic literacy skills. It
would support implementation of successful models of post-literacy courses piloted by DNFE.



                                                  2

The expected outcomes were 1.65m neo-literate learners who would be able to consolidate their
reading, writing and mathematics skills, and apply those to practical life situations, such as work,
farming, parenting and participation in community affairs. Some 55,000 teachers would be
trained in post-literacy instruction.

Expected Outcome: (1) Approximate 1.6m (later adjusted to 1.36m) learners who participated in
the PLCE program, resulting in their improved literacy and numeracy skills; (2) Approximately
55,000 trained teachers would constitute a pool of experienced instructors.

Component 3: Establishing Continuing Education (CE) (US$50.60m)
The purpose of this component was to improve the quality and accessibility of existing continuing
education services and develop new ones to meet learners' needs and interests. Activities would
result in 230 field offices/monitoring centers and 6,900 village-level centers serving 1.36m
beneficiaries. Graduates from these centers were expected to move on to further training, better
employment or improved performance in their current occupations, including farming, and
strengthen their participation as family and/or community members.

Expected Outcomes: (1) Establishment of 6,900 Continuing Education Centers (CECs); (2)
Development of ten (later revised to 15) quality courses reflecting learners' demand; (3) CECs
linked to CE providers and other employment opportunities; (4) Learners' literacy, numeracy
skills improved, with positive impact on employment, economic status and quality of living.

Sub-Component 3.1: Village-level Continuing Education Centers (CECs)
To extend the reach of CE opportunities, the project would support village-based CECs where
learners could improve their literacy, technical and/or life skills, learn about accessible
opportunities for participation in other social and economic development activities, and use
reading materials and other media available at the center.

Sub-Component 3.2: Courses and Services Development
Project activities would help service providers (government agencies, NGOs, CBOs, PVOs and
other private sector organizations) develop and offer courses requested by learners at the CECs to
improve their own management practices and the quality of the courses they offer, and promote
their services to learners.

Sub-Component 3.3: Linkages between Learners and Services
The project would support Upazila Program Organizers (UPOs) to link CECs with organizations
and services aimed at neo-literates for initiating income-generation activities and continuing
education. The primary function of the UPOs would be to serve as information-brokers between
service providers and the CECs.

Component 4: Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$5.40m)
This component would strengthen DNFE by upgrading its planning, implementation, technical
support and quality control capabilities. It would strengthen the capacity of all DNFE's
institutional units through staff training and support to systems improvement. It would help
develop a critical mass of well-trained planners, managers, controllers and trainers to facilitate
development of stronger delivery systems to support enhanced DNFE programs, particularly the
post-literacy and continuing education activities.

Expected Outcomes:(1) PIMU established; (2) establishment of new procedures, mechanisms to
strengthen participation and collaboration among stakeholders; (3) sound financial management



                                                   3

and procurement systems developed; and (4) implementation of eight levels of professional
training opportunities reaching 28,500 current and new DNFE and other NFE providers' staff,
following completion of training needs assessment.

Sub-Component 4.1: Systems Improvement
This would help DNFE strengthen its administrative, financial, information, planning,
implementation, technical service and monitoring systems to manage enhanced DNFE activities.
It would also build staff competencies across a range of tasks, including project planning and
implementation, decision-making, financial management, procurement of goods and services, and
human resource development.

Sub-Component 4.2: Staff Development
This would support overseas and local training at the central and field levels for DNFE/PIMU
personnel. DNFE staff would receive training in planning, evaluation, reporting, quality
assessment, course and materials development, and action research. PIMU staff would receive
training in accounting, procurement and reporting. DNFE technical staff would, in turn, plan and
executive training programs and provide on-going support to field staff.

1.6      Revised Components
There was no formal revision to the original components.

1.7      Other significant changes
The original Closing Date of December 31, 2005 was first extended to June 30, 2006, and then to
December 31, 2007. Extensions were required to address implementation delays and make up for
time lost due to the need to carry-out reviews of the selection and appointment of NGOs, which
halted course delivery.

In March 2005, SDR 9.04m from the Credit was reallocated to the post-flood rehabilitation
activities following the 2004 cyclone. In January 2008, a total of SDR10.7m (US$17m
equivalent) was cancelled from unspent funds allocated to PLCE-1 to finance recovery activities
stemming from the November 2007 cyclone.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Five major events affected implementation and outcomes:

(i) Change of government in October 2001 led to an extensive re-deployment of senior officials in
key positions in PMED/DNFE and the PIMU. This led to reassignment of many personnel
experienced in NFE, and a loss of institutional memory and administrative continuity in the NFE
sub-sector overall, and in DNFE/PIMU in particular.

(ii) The abolition of DNFE in October 2003 disrupted implementation. Management of the NFE
sub-sector was taken over temporarily by a specially-constituted Project Implementation Support
Team (PIST), assisted by the PIMU. After a lapse of 19 months, the Bureau of Non-Formal
Education (BNFE) was established in May 2005 to oversee the sub-sector. The period between
DNFE's abolition and the establishment of BNFE left the project without strong direction and
guidance, resulting in implementation delays across components.

(iii) Frequent staff changes in the PIMU undermined project implementation. The PIMU had five
Project Directors during the project period, in addition to changes of key technical and


                                                 4

administrative staff. This led to most aspects of project implementation relying heavily on a team
of technical experts contracted under the project's main TA contract.

(iv) The evaluation and selection of NGOs was highly problematic. Anonymous allegations of
`inappropriate practices' were received by the Bank in 2004, leading to detailed reviews. This
caused serious delays in implementation.

(v) Overly complex project design left the door open for later problems with NGO contracting.
The initial project design called for re-tendering for the contracting NGOs after each course
delivery cycle. In the Bangladesh context, this left the process vulnerable to inappropriate
practices as thousands of small NGOs competed for a limited number of contracts.

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Extensive analysis of the NFE sub-sector was carried out, focusing on the major issue of the lack
of learning opportunities for neo-literates and graduates of various government and NGO-
operated literacy programs. The project was in-line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
objective of reducing poverty through programs and projects directly assisting the poor. PLCE-1
was in-line with the GOB's Fifth Plan (1997-2002), which held poverty alleviation as its
overriding objective. Project design was consistent with the Bank's education strategy to enable
disadvantaged groups to participate in economic growth by emphasizing increased access to basic
education.

Project design incorporated lessons learned from the Non-Formal Education Project (Cr. 2822-
BD). These included the effectiveness of literacy programs to raise awareness of the benefits of
education, the benefit of women taking a more active interest in their children's education, the
benefit of literacy graduates participating in savings and credit schemes, links between the
acquisition of new skills and income-generation, and the need for program content to be flexible
in order to cater to learners' environment and needs.

Several critical risks were identified, including: (i) low demand for PLCE courses, which would
be mitigated by offering more courses reflecting the learning and skills development interests of
learners, and tailored to local conditions for increasing the likelihood of eventual employment;
(ii) insufficient support among stakeholders for an enhanced NFE system, which would be
mitigated by participatory preparation and implementation, and proactive advocacy and
information dissemination; (iii) high learner dropout and low achievement, which would be
mitigated by offering a range of content areas to better meet learners' needs; (iv) low DNFE
capacity (staffing, technical knowledge, managerial ability), which would be mitigated by
capacity-building measures, such as training staff in specific areas (e.g., technical knowledge
upgrading, improved financial management and procurement); (v) low participation/ownership of
NGOs/private sector, which would be mitigated by encouraging the full participation,
information-sharing and ownership on the part of smaller NGOs and other providers; and (vi)
insufficient funding levels/slow release of funds, which would be mitigated by the certainty of
project funding and strong government support.

The main shortcoming of the project's design proved to be the impracticality of contracting
hundreds of NGOs with each successive cycle of the learning program. The project's
implementation arrangements were ultimately changed to address this major design fault.




                                                   5

2.2     Implementation
Following a six-month postponement of effectiveness in June 2002, implementation start-up was
further delayed by three events: (i) re-deployment of senior PMED/DNFE staff by the newly-
elected government; (ii) changes in the criteria for selecting NGOs, resulting in revision of the
Request for Project Proposal (RPP); and (iii) protracted process for contracting the main TA team
of consultants. Other constraints at start-up included the lack of a system for preparing annual
operations plans, inadequate training and guidance to PIMU staff, delayed selection of
implementation models for implementing the PLCE program, and late formation of the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) for project oversight.

Implementation suffered a major setback in October 2003 when the DNFE was abolished
following a government decision not to transfer DNFE, with its nearly 400 staff, to the revenue
budget. PMED set up a Project Implementation Support Team (PIST) to support the PIMU during
the interim period prior to the eventual establishment of the Bureau for Non-Formal Education
(BNFE).

Implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of the learning program, scheduled to start October 2004, was
delayed nearly two years while investigations by an independent agency, government and the
Bank were carried out in response to anonymous allegations received by the Bank of wrong-
doing in the evaluation and selection of NGOs for the third and fourth cycles of the learning
program. Of 465 NGOs selected, an external review conducted by a local firm disqualified 298
NGOs based on lack of adequate documentation proving sufficient prior experience and other
qualification criteria. The government requested for a second detailed review of the previously
161 disqualified NGOs after which the Bank cleared 101 NGOs (bringing the total qualified
NGOs to 268). Only after this review did implementation of the delayed cycles resume.
Implementation arrangements were revised to allow for re-contracting good performing NGOs,
rather than redoing tendering at the completion of each cycle, as per the project's initial design.

Other issues impeded implementation, including the alleged misuse of funds linked to the
inappropriate selection of candidates for study tours, and weak financial management. The
cumulative negative effects of these events placed the project in `at risk' status for most of the
second half of its implementation period. This was reflected in the numerous `unsatisfactory'
ratings for implementation progress and achievement of the PDO from May 2002 to August 2005,
and `moderately unsatisfactory' ratings in the final year of implementation.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. Key indicators to measure the project's outcomes were described in the PAD's Project
Design Summary. The M&E system comprised six modalities: (i) regular monitoring by DNFE
officials and Monitoring Associates; (ii) in-house monitoring by the Program Monitoring NGOs
(PM-NGOs); (iii) assessment of learners' achievement, economic status and quality of living;
(iv)annual, mid-term and end-of-project reviews; (v) special studies on the project components;
and (vi) sample-based reviews of the quality aspects of the program and its impact.

Implementation. Soon after implementation commenced, the Task Team concluded that the
arrangement for Monitoring Associates (MAs) and PM-NGOs to monitor the work of Program
Implementing-NGOs (PI-NGOs) was not sufficiently systematized. Improvements were made to
the M&E system by simplifying data collection forms. However, utilization was rendered largely
ineffective because the monitoring reports by MAs and PM-NGOs were not properly analyzed or
applied. There was a lack of clarity of the purpose of M&E, data to be collected and analyzed,
and processing and dissemination cycles for maintaining the management information system.



                                                  6

The M&E system was not effective in providing practical support to project implementation, as
feedback data were not consolidated at the PIMU to assess project performance and initiate
remedial actions to improve program quality and performance. Periodic reports on
implementation progress were produced by the team of external consultants. External bodies
carried out the project's two tracer studies to assess impact of the program on learners, and two
performance audits to assess project management and implementation. It appears that little, if any,
M&E capacity was built within the BNFE.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance. Satisfactory. There were no safeguard issues.

Financial Management. Moderately unsatisfactory. The project started with the delayed
allocation of government counterpart funding. This led to the PIMU disbursing more than the
percentage stipulated in the DCA, as it incorrectly identified eligible expenditures to be paid from
the Special Account. During the period 2001-2006, there were 97 audit objections, 66 of which
remained pending. For the last quarter of FY06, the Bank noted discrepancies between the FMR,
cash book and bank statements for the closing bank balance. Inadequate staffing had a negative
impact on the quality of FMRs, timeliness of withdrawal applications, preparation of annual
financial statements, and provision of information to auditors.

In mid-2005, the Task Team learned that three senior officials not directly involved with the
project had participated in an overseas study tour and utilized a budget intended for six persons.
Outside of agreed procedures, business class air tickets were purchased and the tour program
modified for personal reasons. The PIMU contended that the concerned officials were suitable
candidates for participation in the study tour. Further study tours were not approved by the task
team for the remaining project period. Of the 15 study tours planned for 104 participants, 13 took
place, with a total of 74 participants.

Procurement. Moderately unsatisfactory. In-line with GOB procurement guidelines, the PIMU
prepared a draft procurement plan for the period 2001-2006. This was revised in June 2006.
However, procurement under the project faced early difficulties with the purchase of computers,
later declared as mis-procured due to non-conformity with IDA rules governing bid validity. A
post-review of contracts in 2006-2007 discovered material objections related to eight contracts,
four implemented by BNFE and four by the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)
as part of 2004 post-flood relief activities (for which Credit from PLCE-1 was re-allocated). As
observed by the second performance audit, most procurement actions were delayed three to 28
months.

NGO contracting posed the most serious procurement difficulty under the project, and one which
ultimately led to the substantial implementation delays encountered. While project design
stipulating re-tendering for each cycle of the learning program is largely responsible for the
difficulties that ensued, a lack of sufficient oversight and rigor on the part of the PIMU in
carrying-out this key procurement action was a major factor. The major procurement problems
related to both NGO contracting and study tours were part of the PIMU's procurement
responsibilities, and are chief reasons for the `moderately unsatisfactory' rating for procurement.

Disbursement. PLCE-1's original Credit total was SDR 41.80m. A total of SDR 9.04m was re-
allocated to post-flood recovery in 2006. This was achieved through the addition of a new
category of expenditure (Category Z), formalized through an amendment to the DCA. Category Z
financed rehabilitation of flood-damaged schools, mostly at the primary education level. A total



                                                   7

of 10.70m SDR was cancelled in January 2008 to finance recovery efforts following the
November 2007 Cyclone Sidr.

The total amount of IDA Credit available under PLCE-1 was SDR 41.8m. One re-allocation
(SDR 9.039m) and one cancellation (SDR 10.7m) were undertaken to provide financing for
natural disasters which took place in 2004 and 2007, respectively. After these adjustments, the
total amount of IDA Credit available for PLCE-1-specific activities was SDR 22.06m. As of July
3, 2008, total disbursements for PLCE-1-related activities was SDR 19.9m, or 90.57 percent of
the revised available amount of SDR 22.06m, or 47.8 percent of the original Credit amount of
SDR 41.80m. Including Category Z (2004 Post-Flood Recovery), total disbursement under the
project was SDR 28.6m, or 92.6 percent of the revised IDA Credit amount of SDR 31.1m (i.e.
after cancellation of SDR 10.7m for Cyclone Sidr), or 68.4 percent of the original Credit of SDR
41.80m.

Disbursement under the Swiss Trust Fund (SWTZ 28337) was US$ 2.98m, or 42.6 percent of the
total grant of US$ 7.0m. The remaining balance was cancelled.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Government of Bangladesh sought a third Closing Date extension, and made plans to
implement a final two cycles of course delivery. However, no other specific plans were made
prior to the Closing Date of December 31, 2007 for the continuation of project activities after the
cessation of Bank financing. The ICR mission learned that NGOs have handed over the learning
centers (CECs), equipment and learning materials acquired under the project to the Upazila NFE
Committees (UNFEC). UNFECs, in turn, are to have handed over these facilities and materials to
Union Council chairpersons or members of Center Management Committees (CMC). Local
authorities are responsible for operating centers with their own resources. It is unclear, however,
the extent to which CECs will continue to be used for PLCE-type activities.

An Asian Development Bank-financed project, PLCE-2, is scheduled to come on-stream soon. Its
design is based largely on lessons learned from PLCE-1. It aims to support similar development
objectives as PLCE-1 to benefit neo-literates, particularly women and rural dwellers.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of Objectives. The project's objectives were relevant and consistent with GOB's
current development strategy of generating growth and reducing poverty, as per its Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) focusing on employment generation, nutrition, maternal health,
education, sanitation and safe water, justice and local governance. They were also consistent with
the CAS of 2006 which identifies improving the quality of education as essential for social and
economic development. A CAS priority is to promote faster and more equitable human
development as part of a long-term vision and strategy for the social sectors.

As a means of poverty alleviation, PLCE-1's contribution and potential is clear. It offered many
people their sole opportunity for enhancing their intellectual and practical skills toward opening
opportunities for improved livelihoods. Learners were among the poorest people in Bangladesh,
leading lives largely characterized by toil and labor, and with few comforts or amenities. For
many among the nearly one million people who completed the learning program, PLCE-1 offered
the chance to gather several times a week with friends and neighbors and engage in the interesting




                                                  8

act of learning. This was an important respite from an otherwise difficult life, and was reflected in
the high levels of learner motivation consistently noted by semi-annual supervision missions.

Design and Implementation. The project's design was relevant insofar as it was based on a
thorough analysis of the issues facing the NFE sub-sector in Bangladesh, and sought an
acceptable means to address them in that context. Given a long history of the NGO sector as a
central force in Bangladesh's development programs, PLCE-1's goal of harnessing NGO skill
and experience for running its learning program was both logical and feasible. Unfortunately, the
multi-layered implementation arrangements proved too complex for capacity in government.
From the first to the last day of the project's life, the PIMU relied entirely on a team of consultant
technical experts, led by an experienced, competent and dedicated team leader, to carry out its
functions and responsibilities.

The Achilles' heal of the project was its failure to anticipate difficulties in contracting a large
number NGOs and ensuring adherence to specified complex qualification criteria in the context
of serious governance problems. The project's design left it highly vulnerable to inappropriate
practices and accusations of the same. Accusations leveled against government related mostly to
favoritism in NGO selection. Accusations against NGOs pertained mainly to the veracity of
documentation proving experience, establishment and track record. Cases of NGOs were found
not to be in existence at a registered office address and submitting forged documents.

Reviews into the NGO selection process were carried out for most of the last two-and-a-half
years of the project. Pending outcome of the second major review, which examined the validity of
161 NGOs that an earlier review had brought into question, the learning program was halted.
Cycles 3, 4 and 5 of the learning program were postponed, and 6 and 7 cancelled outright as they
could not be fully implemented prior to the project Closing Date. The complicated sequencing for
delivery of the learning program, with differing cycles running in parallel, added to the challenge
of resuming the program after its cessation, and diminished hopes of achieving the project's
target number of learners.

In the policy and institutional vacuum which existed after the abolition of the BNFE in October
2003, the main body responsible for non-formal education in Bangladesh, there was little other
than PLCE-1 to provide focus for effecting change and reform in the sub-sector. To that end, the
Bank's engagement was valuable; although, arguably, not as valuable as the learning program
which would impact the lives of the poorest and most marginalized

Throughout the project period, the Bank was fully supportive of the PIMU's implementation
efforts, as evidence by two extensions to the Closing Date, and the regularity and thoroughness of
supervision missions. At the same time, the Bank was firm and fair in reviewing the project's
fiduciary functioning (procurement and financial management) toward ensuring that
implementation bodies were diligent in carrying out their responsibilities, and had the technical
capacity to do so.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The learning program under PLCE-1 was the most successful aspect of the project. As a single
output, it had the greatest impact for achieving the project's desired outcomes to improve
people's livelihoods and combat poverty. When the learning program was underway, it ran
smoothly. It graduated nearly 180,000 learners with each nine-month cycle of three-month post-
literacy and six-month continuing education classes. Tracers studies carried out in 2005 and 2007
showed a positive impact on the lives of learners, particularly women. PLCE-1 led to increases in
household income through the acquisition and application of new income-earning skills. In this


                                                    9

regard, PLCE-1 was a success. However, its full potential could not be met in light of its
impractical implementation arrangements and an environment laden with impediments to smooth
implementation.

PDO Objective 1: Promoting an enhanced and comprehensive NFE system
Moderately unsatisfactory. The key outcome was development of a National Framework (NF) for
non-formal education in Bangladesh. The NF was approved by the Government in June 2004
following consultations within government, civil society, NGOs and development partners.
Equivalency studies were completed in June 2004 to inform decision-making on the feasibility of
programs for people to earn academic credentials based on knowledge and experience acquired
through non-formal education programs, such as that under PLCE-1. Utility of the national
framework would ultimately depend on BNFE staff for translating policy into plans and programs,
and whose professional capacities PLCE-1 aimed to strengthen.

A Perspective Plan covering the period 2004-2015, which defines implementation of the NF,
needs to be finalized and formally adopted. As there is no follow-up to the PLCE-1, BNFE's
capability to plan and implement NFE projects has not been put to the test. Given that throughout
PLCE-1's implementation period heavy reliance was placed upon the team of consultant technical
experts to produce the draft national framework and the Perspective Plan, it is reasonable to
question BNFE's planning and implementing capacity over the short to medium term.

This component supported advocacy and dissemination campaigns to publicize an enhanced NFE
system. Campaign activities made reasonable progress up to 2006 through nationwide workshops.
However, there was no systematic feedback to ascertain if campaigns achieved their objective of
promoting a common understanding of NFE among stakeholders. There is little evidence to show
that functional linkages among the relevant groups and organizations were formed as a result of
advocacy and dissemination campaigns.

PDO Objective 2: Supporting Post-Literacy Implementation
Moderately unsatisfactory. This component aimed to graduate 1.36m neo-literate learners (50
percent female) with enhanced literacy, numeracy and practical life skills for better health
practices, increased chances of employment, productivity gains, and improved social awareness
and attitudes.. There is only partial achievement of the PDO given the shortfall in the total
number of graduates against the project's target (i.e. 0.97m compared to 1.36m).

A related outcome was the drawing together of a large number of NFE providers to implement
the program. A total of of 1,085 contracts for Program Implementing NGOs (PI-NGOs) to
implement 1,085 units, aided by 324,000 Facilitators (50 percent female), 919 Supervisors and
1,081 Resource Persons.

Tracer studies carried out in 2005 and 2007 indicated that the PLCE program, on the whole, had a
positive impact on raising the literacy and numeracy competency of the learners. They indicated
that gains achieved in empowering household members, particularly women, in decision-making
appeared to be stable. Skill levels achieved by learners, identified through tracer studies as
percents of learners achieving benchmarked acquisition levels, were as follows:

Skill            2003    2004     2005     2007
Reading          52      88       62       64
Writing          23      85       49       40
Counting         67      97       59       58



                                                 10

The main shortfall of this component is that it achieved only 73 percent of its target number of
beneficiaries. Had implementation of the learning program not being severely impeded by
problems associated with NGO contracting, the project could have easily reached its intended
target number of beneficiaries, or more.

PDO Objective 3: Establishing Continuing Education
Moderately satisfactory. This PDO has been achieved, with minor short-comings. The project
accomplished the following: (i) established 6,900 CECs where a cumulative total of 972,900 neo-
literates received PL and CE courses in five cycles of training; and (ii) developed and provided 15
trade courses based on learners' interest. A survey of 263,700 graduates of Phases 3B/4B showed
that the five most popular courses were tailoring, cattle fattening and goat rearing, poultry rearing,
and milch-cow rearing. These reflected the learners' perception of the most accessible
opportunities for employment or income-generation.

Female learners who acquired a trade, such as tailoring or fabric (batik) block printing, are
empowered by being self- or factory-employed, thus raising household incomes from 10 to 100
percent. With higher incomes, learners have gained greater confidence in participatory household
decision-making for family budgeting, home maintenance, personal and family hygiene, assisting
children in their education, and taking an active part in village and community activities.
Acquired personal skills and social values are likely to be transmitted to the next generation

PLCE-1's impact was positive on employment generation and income generation, but appeared to
be below its potential. The impact of the CE training could have been maximized had there been a
wider offering of trade courses and better links between graduates and micro-credit and other
service providers, such as marketing and technical assistance.

Objective 4: Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Unsatisfactory. Achievement of this PDO is minimal. Staff training had negligible impact on the
PIMU, which was established and functioning from June 2001 until project closure. Throughout
the project period, the PIMU relied heavily on a team of consultant technical experts to carry out
most core functions of the unit. An underlying problem was a lack of professionally-qualified
personnel dedicated to working in the NFE sub-sector to serve as the basis for systematic
institutional development. The routine transfer of staff prevented the accumulation of institutional
expertise.

Professional training was provided to personnel within the eight levels of government involved in
PLCE-1's implementation (MOPME/PMED, DNFE, PIMU, DTs, DCOs, UPOs, NGOs and
CMCs) and to NGO staff. An enhanced M&E system was developed; equivalency assessments
and studies carried out, including two tracer studies. Bank preparation and appraisal missions
provided technical support to assist the DNFE in establishing systems for financial management
and procurement. DNFE, with consultant support, prepared PLCE-1's Procurement and Project
Implementation Plans covering the period 2001-2006, and annual implementation plans and
budgets.

The shortfall in full achievement of the PDO is attributed, in part, to weak management capacity
of BNFE/PIMU. Allegations of inappropriate practices in the evaluation and selection of NGOs
and the misuse of funds for foreign study tours reflected a management lapse in governance. Most
of the 45 staff (accounts officers, Monitoring Associates, Divisional Team members, and
Technical Specialists) recruited especially for the project did not receive training. This had a
negative impact on project implementation and undermined the objective of institutional
strengthening, a key finding of the second Performance Audit.


                                                 11

3.3      Efficiency
Moderate. The GOB ICR declared that the project's annual outputs were `not countable because
it was a social welfare-related adult non-formal education project for poor people'. However,
findings of the Bangladesh Household and Expenditure Surveys (BHES) indicate that private and
social returns to education are significant at all levels of the educational system.. As PLCE-1
targeted neo-literates who were among the poorest of the poor and paid for the cost of the training,
the Project could have a significant impact on alleviating poverty. Analysis (Annex 3) of data
from the 2007 Second Tracer Study and Second Performance Audit tracer confirm that the
literacy training had a positive, large and statistically significant impact on earnings of trainees.
.

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
         (Objective             Relevance         Efficacy         Efficiency       Outcome
1. Promoting an enhanced
and comprehensive NFE                           Moderately

system                             High        unsatisfactory

2. Supporting Post-                             Moderately
Literacy Implementation            High        unsatisfactory      Moderate        Moderately
3. Establishing Continuing                      Moderately                        Unsatisfactory
Education                          High         satisfactory
4. Strengthening
Institutional Capacity             High       Unsatisfactory


A moderately unsatisfactory for the project's overall outcome is based on its failure to strengthen
institutional capacity, its complete reliance on the consultant team of technical experts, design
shortcomings which led, in part, to serious implementation problems, shortfalls in the number of
graduates of the learning program, and limited likelihood for sustainability in the absence of a
follow-on operation. Despite the nearly one million people who completed the nine-month post-
literacy and continuing education course, these shortfalls seriously reduced PLCE-1's potential.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)      Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Findings of the tracer studies indicate that the project has had a positive impact on poverty
alleviation for PLCE-1 graduates through widening employment opportunities and increasing
family incomes. The chance of self-employment at home or working in a factory has empowered
women graduates, leading to more active participation in family decision-making, improved
family health and hygiene, and heightened social awareness of village and community matters.
While these findings require further validation, they indicate an encouraging trend toward poverty
alleviation and empowerment of women as keys to social and economic development.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Institutional strengthening has been negligible, and failure to achieve this objective stemmed
from a negligent approach to staff training. For example, of the 15 study tours planned, 13 were
carried out with a total of 74 participants, but only 38 (51 percent) were directly involved with
implementation of the project, and only 19 (26 percent) were DNFE/PIMU staff. The
Government of Bangladesh's FY05 audit report of PLCE-1, in referring to the project's study
tours, pointed out that the participation by officials who were not related to the project was a
"wastage and misuse of project resources". The Bank regarded this instance of weak project



                                                   12

management as symptomatic of the overarching issues and problems of governance that had
negatively affected the project.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
An unintended outcome of the review of alleged malpractice in the evaluation and selection of
NGOs was the development of a model format for the Government Request for Proposals (RFP)
for the selection of NGOs. The new customized RFP eliminates unnecessary price wars that
characterized previous procurement exercises, and focuses on quality as the governing factor in
NGO selection. The model RFP and contract format have been used in the Bangladesh National
Nutrition Program (NNP) and in the multi-donor Bangladesh Health Nutrition and Population
Sector Program (HNPSP).

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
        N/A

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Significant. There are no formal policy guidelines for the post-implementation maintenance and
operation of the approximately 6,900 CECs which were handed over to CMCs. The Second
Performance Audit estimated that 15-20 percent of PLCE graduates used the CECs. Without
guidelines, there is no government budget provision for supporting CECs, which otherwise must
rely on local communities to provide funds. Given the poverty level of most villages, funding is
unlikely to be regular and/or sufficient, and there is significant risk of CECs lapsing into disuse.
This would reduce the opportunity for PLCE-1 graduates to maintain and develop their literacy
skills.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Moderately satisfactory. The IDA task team worked collaboratively with GOB to identify,
prepare and appraise the project, consulting all stakeholders in the NFE sub-sector. Project
preparation took into account lessons learned from previous NFE and related operations.
However, the project's design requiring new tendering for the hiring of NGOs with each cycle of
course delivery failed to foresee serious risks of this approach in the Bangladesh context.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
Satisfactory. Most supervision missions included field visits to ascertain first-hand
implementation progress and efficacy of the learning program through discussions with
implementing and monitoring NGOs, local officials and learners themselves. Mission findings on
implementation achievements as well as problems and issues are documented in substantial detail
in Aides-Memoire, which provide a chronological record of implementation experience and
actions taken and/or recommended. These have been summarized in 16 ISRs over the project
period. One shortcoming was a protracted response from the Bank to authorize resumption of the
learning program through procurement clearance of government's selection of cleared NGOs for
the final round of course delivery which commenced in spring 2007. A response from the Bank
was pending for a period of nearly three months. Given the amount of time already lost to delays
and the limited time remaining prior to scheduled closure, this avoidable delay did not contribute
positively to a smooth resumption of the learning program.




                                                 13

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Satisfactory. The Bank provided consistent and flexible support to BNFE/PIMU, as evidenced by
the two Closing Date extensions. When DNFE became defunct, the Bank had the option of
suspending its support to the project (as was the case for ADB with PLCE-2); instead, the Bank
and SDC persevered in moving the project forward, as circumstances allowed. The Bank was
firm and fair in its fiduciary responsibilities as shown by the meticulous post-review of
procurement and financial management reports, and by the internal review of the controversial
evaluation and selection of NGOs to resolve the dispute expeditiously, and in handling the matter
concerning the purported misuse of project funds for one of the study tours.

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a)      Government Performance
Moderately unsatisfactory. At appraisal, Government commitment to the project objectives which
were consistent with those of the Fifth Plan (1997-2002), and assured the Bank of its strong
project ownership. PMED/MOPME played a key role in project preparation, approving proposals
for staff recruitment, NGO selection and contracting, and assigned senior officials to assist in
implementation. However, the change of government following the general elections of 2004
brought a shift in strategy, if not in policy and commitment. The new government replaced many
senior DNFE officials who had been appointed by the previous administration, resulting in a loss
of implementation momentum and institutional memory. The failure to transfer DNFE to the
revenue budget resulted in its abrupt demise in October 2003. This had a negative impact on the
PLCE-1. Until its replacement, the BNFE, was established in 2005, the project was without an
official institutional base.

At closure, the issue of payment to the main technical assistance team for work which all parties
agreed had been completed and carried out in good faith, albeit during a period when a new
contract had not been approved, was not satisfactorily resolved. This is particularly disingenuous
on the part of government given that the consultant team provided key and, arguably,
indispensable assistance to BNFE/PIMU throughout the project's life. Government explained that
the consultant firm's contract could not be extended without revision of the Project Proforma
which, in turn, was contingent on the Bank agreed to extend the project a third time. The
bureaucratic requirement that allows revision of Project Proformas only twice in the life of a
project did not serve PLCE-1 well, and the circular arguments used as justification for non-
payment to the consultant team were unacceptable.

(b)      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Moderately unsatisfactory. The frequent changes of staff and the succession of five Project
Directors to manage the project over a seven-year implementation period reflected the inherent
instability of PIMU, and seriously undermined its capacity to effectively manage the project.
Allegations of inappropriate practices in the evaluation and selection of NGOs further eroded
confidence in the implementing agency, protracted reviews and investigations into NGO
contracting seriously impeded project implementation. Aside from the purported misuse of funds
for one study tour, study tours were ineffectively planned and managed. At closure, there was
scant evidence the tours had any appreciable impact on strengthening the BNFE/PIMU.

NGO contracting and study tours were the direct responsibility of the PIMU. Their role as major
problem areas under the project indicates that the PIMU's interests and those of the project were
at odds. In the complex operating environment of Bangladesh, the shortcomings of a single body
such as the PIMU are most readily understood a part of overarching systemic failure with
consequences for both the public and NGO sectors..


                                                   14

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Moderately unsatisfactory. Government made efforts on several fronts to address issues facing
the project as they arose and to ensure effective implementation overall. However, a lack of
consistent leadership, weak oversight of major project activities such as NGO contracting, study
tours, staff training and advocacy and dissemination activities, coupled with an inordinate
reliance on the main consultant team of experts at all times and for most tasks provide
justification for an unsatisfactory rating.

6.       Lessons Learned
The experience of PLCE-1 holds number of important lessons. These pertain to ways to improve
the functioning of similar, future program to support learning and skills development among neo-
literates. Some of the lessons learned are specific to the NFE sector, while others have broader
application for the effective management and implementation of development assistance
programs in Bangladesh, in particular, and elsewhere. These are important lessons given the
enormous potential which PLCE-1 held for positively affecting the lives of millions of poor
people in Bangladesh, but which could not be realized due to the various obstacles which arose as
a function of the complex operating environment which characterizes Bangladesh, and the
project's own design shortcomings.

Project design
NGO contracting was the Achilles' heal of PLCE-1. It represented a major flaw in the project's
design. There are three key lessons. First, NGO contracting should have been out-sourced to a
third party to keep government free of the process and, subsequently, immune from accusations
of favoritism in the evaluation and selection of NGOs. Second, while the objective of supporting
many small NGOs to build capacity and gain experience in the running of literacy program was
laudable, the sheer number of NGOs being contracted at any given time was excessive and
unwieldy. A more suitable approach would have been to allow larger, reputable NGOs with solid
track records to sub-contract to smaller NGOs, thus transferring the management and oversight to
larger umbrella NGOs. Third, new tendering should not have been required for contracting NGOs
with each successive cycle of the learning program. A realignment of the project's
implementation arrangements allowed for re-contracting of good performing NGOs. This should
have been part of the project's initial design. Finally, there was a lack of access to micro-credit
and other service providers. To fulfill the purpose of the CE program, it is necessary to link neo-
literate learners with agencies that could help them improve their existing occupations or start a
new business using new skills. This would require more effective planning and management on
the part of the main implementing agency which has the ability to establish and nurture alliances
within government, the private sector and civil society.

Institutional strengthening
First, study tours objectives should be clearly articulated and tied to specific tours with clearly-
delineated activities for qualified participants. Participants should be selected from beneficiary
institutions, and required to produce a report following completion of tour. Host institutions
should be fully aware of the purpose of the tour and a program should be prepared in advance and
agreed upon between the sending and receiving institutions. Post-return seminars should be held,
based on reports submitted by returned participants, as a means of sharing learning among staff
who could not participate in the tour. Second, institutional strengthening was weakened by
constant changes in senior management of the PIMU. Provisions and agreements should be set in
place to ensure greater continuity in leadership. Third, technical support from consultants should
not have been in place for the entire duration of PLCE-1's implementation period, as this
seriously undermined any meaningful transfer of skill and responsibility to the government
implementing body.


                                                  15

Reviews and program continuity
Reviews of the NGO contracting under the project led the complete cessation of delivery of the
learning program for an extended period. This had a deleterious effect on most aspects of project
functioning. First, given that the learning program ran effectively once it was up and running,
arrangements should have been made to allow for the continuation of delivery of the learning
program, even if considerably scaled-down with a smaller number of implementing NGOs
unambiguously cleared for engagement to continue delivery the classes.

Role of Department of Institutional Integrity (INT)
Some of the complaints related to the selection of the NGOs were referred to INT and on the
basis of its recommendations an investigation was carried out and managed by SDC (Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation) through an independent firm from a sample basis
initially, but also of all selected NGOs later. Subsequently, INT conducted its own investigations.
However, the latter investigation took very long and no final report of its findings has yet been
issued. Both the length of the investigation and the lack of information sharing about the status of
the investigation impacted on the dialogue with the government and the co-financing partner who
have repeatedly requested the findings. Decisions taken by the Bank Group following the
Volcker Panel's review of INT are expected to address these issues.

Government planning processes
First, per Government of Bangladesh rules, the Project Proforma, the main government planning
document for any externally-financed project, can only be revised twice in the life of a project.
Under PLCE-1, this posed a serious impediment and gave government unreasonable grounds for
both delaying payment to the main consultant team, which faithfully served the project
throughout its entire implementation period, as well as for influencing the Bank's decision-
making on a third extension. There should be flexibility exercised on a case-by-case basis if a
project's overall likelihood of achieving its objectives is at risk as a function of this bureaucratic
requirement. Second, no provisions were in place for the continuation of PLCE activities after
cessation of the Bank's financing to PLCE-1. A small revolving fund should be set up with initial
seed money from BNFE for the UNFECs or CMCs to organize follow-up, repeater or new trade
skill courses to be run by NGOs with a proven track record. This would help sustain the CECs
and enable PLCE graduates to maintain and improve their literacy skills.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)      Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower's comments on the project and the ICR are generally positive, indicating overall
satisfaction with the project's impact and outcomes, and without major disagreement on the
analysis provided in the ICR. However, the Borrower's comments do indicate dissatisfaction with
the Bank's decision not to extend the project for another 18 months to allow achievement of 102
percent of the initial project target number of beneficiaries. The prevailing sentiment on the part
of the Borrower during the last phase of project implementation was that despite the numerous
and persistent difficulties facing the project (particularly concerning NGO evaluation and
selection), at the time of closure the project was finally in a position to run smoothly, thus
offering the potential for an additional number of beneficiaries to complete the full nine-month
PLCE learning program.

The Task Team agreed that it would have been feasible for the project to continue for an extended
period in order to increase the number of beneficiaries completing the learning program. However,
the Bank's decision to close PLCE-1 on December 31, 2007 was based on a multitude of factors


                                                  16

which, in combination, provided sufficient justification for bringing the project to a close. Chief
among these were the project's inordinate and seemingly unending reliance on the main technical
assistance team, compounded by the issue in the last phase of implementation of outstanding
payment to the technical team for services which all parties agreed were rendered in good faith.

BNFE's dissatisfaction with the main technical assistance team may be unwarranted given the
fact that the project would not have been able to function as it did without the TA team's strong
and consistent support throughout the project's life. From the vantage point of the Task Team, it
was clear that the project would not have been able to attain its achievements and manage its day-
to-day functioning without the TA team.

Government notes in its comments two lessons learned pertaining to NGO selection (i.e. the need
for more simplified procedures), and to the project's lack of appropriate incentives and support
for learners after completion of the nine-month PLCE learning program. There are valid points
and have been reflected in the ICR's analysis.

(b)      Cofinanciers
The Bank concurs with SDC in its view that PLCE-1 made important contributions to the raising
the profile of NFE programs, the need for them to support poor and marginalized populations in
Bangladesh, and the significant contribution the project made toward operationalizing NFE
programming through the development of curricula and materials which can be used in future.
SDC played a key role in supporting Government to develop the NFE policy, and its participation
in the local donor consultative group was instrumental in this effort. SDC is to be commended for
its commitment to see this process through and to ensure the development of a sound policy
which will serve the policy and institutional needs of the sub-sector over the long term.

The Bank and SDC are in agreement on the significant challenges the project faced, in particular
surrounding the evaluation and selection of NGOs. The Bank was most appreciative of SDC's
support in organizing an initial series of inquiries to better understand the context in which
anonymous letters alleging inappropriate activities were being received by both SDC and the
Bank. SDC's initial efforts in this area formed the basis for a more comprehensive inquiry later
on. The issue of SDC having not yet received the final report of the Bank's Institutional Integrity
unit's inquiry is regretted by the Task Team. The Task Team has not yet received the final
report of this investigation and assures SDC that any report will be forwarded without delay once
available.

The Bank acknowledges SDC's key role in providing consistency during the life of the project,
particularly in light of numerous changes in government and one post-effectiveness change of the
Bank's Task Team Leader. Undoubtedly, the project would not have been able to achieve as
much as it did without SDC's continual support and attention, much benefited by SDC's on-the-
ground presence and solid understanding of the operating environment and workings of the
Bangladeshi bureaucracy. As noted above, SDC's role as Vice Chair (2003- 2005) and Chair
(2005-2007) of the Local Consultative sub Group on Education (ELCG) was instrumental in
bringing together all relevant DPs to support the project during its most critical periods (e.g. the
abolishment of the DNFE). Overall, the Bank highly valued SDC's partnership for PLCE-1 and
acknowledges SDC's key role in supporting and guiding the project toward achieving the
successes it did, despite the many challenges faced.

(c)      Other partners and stakeholders
         N/A



                                                17

                                          Annex 1
                                 Project Costs and Financing

(a)    Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest
              Components                  Estimate                         Percentage of
                                            (USD       Estimate (USD         Appraisal
                                          millions)       millions)

PROMOTING ENHANCED AND
COMPREHENSIVE NFE                                1.2               0.66                 55

POST LITERACY PROGRAM                            11.8              9.59                 81
SUPPORTING CONTINUING
EDUCATION PROGRAM                               43.0               23.66                55

STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY                                         4.7               3.10                 66


Z Category ( Post Flood Rehabilitation)             0              11.6                   0

            Total Baseline Cost                 60.70              48.6                 80

Physical Contingencies                          0.80                   -              0.00

Price Contingencies                             10.10                  -              0.00
             Total Project Costs                71.60              48.6               67.9
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                  -                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                  -                .00
      Total Financing Required                  71.60              48.6               67.9



(b)    Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds               Type of      Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                   11.25          4.56        40.5
International Development
Association (IDA)                                          53.30         41.06          77

SWITZERLAND: Swiss Agency for
Dev. & Coop. (SDC)                                          7.00          2.98        42.6




                                             18

                                                            Annex 2
                                                 Outputs by Component


     Hierarchy of         Key Performance              Monitoring &                         Target versus Actual
       Objectives             Indicators                 Evaluation

Project Develop-        Outcome / Impact         Project Reports:                  Target                      Status
ment Objective:         Indicators:

Increase in functional  Increased number of      Education Statistics      a) 1.36m neo-literates  a) Achievement was 972,900
application of literacy beneficiaries achieving                            to complete PL & CE     neo-literates (71.4 percent)
skills by providing     higher literacy          Mid-Term Evaluation.      program and thus get    of the target of 1.36m
Post Literacy and       competency levels :                                improved awareness      beneficiaries
Continuing Education    (a) 1.36m; and           Post-literacy Achievement for better health
(PL&CE) to neo-         (b) PL / CE              Test.                     practices, better       b) Benefits derived by the
literates through a     Completers                                         employment chances      learners after PLCE are:
more comprehensive      demonstrating higher     Stakeholders Surveys.     & better productivity    i) Extent of increase in
and enhanced system     level of competency.                               gains.                  employment: 6 percent
of non-formal                                    Longitudinal Study                                ii) Extent of decrease in
education.              Enhanced system of       (enhanced current tracer                          the practice of learners
                        NFE in the country.      study) to include PL &                            not washing hands with
                                                 CE beneficiaries.                                 soap after defecation: 21
                        Better health practices,                                                   percent
                        increased chances of     ICR                                               iii) Extent of decrease in
                        better employment,                                                         the practice of learners
                        productivity gains,                                                        not assisting children
                        improved awareness                                                         with their studies: 20 percent
                        and attitudes.

     Hierarchy of         Key Performance              Monitoring &                         Target versus Actual
       Objectives             Indicators                 Evaluation
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:          Planned:                     Actual:
component:

                                                                           (i) Draft National NFE       (i) Draft National NFE
1.Promoting             National framework of    MOPME / BNFE              Policy Frame-work with       Policy Framework,
enhanced and            NFE established and      Reports                   Study on Equivalency,        prepared in 2004, was
comprehensive NFE       the equivalency studies                                                         approved by GOB
system:- Enhanced       completed                IDA / SDC Supervision                                  January 2006 for
and comprehensive                                Aide-Memoires             (ii) Draft Long Term NFE     implementation by the
NFE system              Comprehensive                                      Perspective Plan             Bureau of Non Formal
developed and           perspective plan         Mid-Term and                                           Education (BNFE)
implemented.            developed                End-of-project            (iii) Draft National NFE
                                                                           Advocacy and                 (ii) NFE Perspective
                        Advocacy and             Evaluation studies        Dissemination Plan           Plan finalized and
                        dissemination plans                                                             mainstreamed together
                        developed and            lCR                                                    with the Policy
                        implemented                                                                     Framework

                                                                                                        (iii) Draft Long Term
                                                                                                        Perspective Plan 2004,
                                                                                                        Draft Equivalency
                                                                                                        Study 2004 and Draft
                                                                                                        National Advocacy and
                                                                                                        Dissemination Plan
                                                                                                        2004 were developed &
                                                                                                        submitted to GOB




                                                               19

2. Supporting Post-  Increased number of       Monitoring reports from    a) NGO contracts awarded     a) Final draft of PLCE
Literacy             NGOs and other non-       implementers and BNFE      to a total of 1,514 PI-      Models prepared and
Implementation.      formal education                                     NGOs for 1,514 units of      approved in 2002
                     providers                 Post-literacy achievement  PLCE program operations
                     implementing post-        tests                      in 22,710 centers covering   b) 6,900 centers
                     literacy activities using                            1.36m neo-literates. A       established
                     new models, with 1.65     Education statistics       total of 45,420 Facilitators
                     million learners                                     (50 percent female), 1,514   c) 6,900 CMCs
                     (adjusted to 1.3626       Longitudinal studies       Supervisors & 22,710         organized
                     million by approved                                  skill development service
                     revised PP, Oct.05)       IDA/SDC supervision        providers engaged for        d) Upazila NFE
                                               mission reports            implementing the program     Committees organized
                     Pre-and post-learners'                                                            in 205 Upazilas and
                     achievement in literacy   Mid-term and end-of-       b) PL completers have        District NFE
                     and numeracy skills       project evaluation studies attained proficiency in      Committees organized
                                                                          reading, writing and         in 32 Districts
                                               ICR                        numercy
                                                                                                       e) 1,085 contracts for
                                                                                                       PI-NGOs awarded

                                                                                                       f) Learners' proficiency
                                                                                                       in reading, writing and
                                                                                                       numeracy was tested
                                                                                                       four times. Findings
                                                                                                       were as follows:
                                                                                                       Skill    2003 2004
                                                                                                       2005 2007
                                                                                                       Reading 52        88
                                                                                                       62    64
                                                                                                       Writing     23    85
                                                                                                       49    40
                                                                                                       Counting 67       97
                                                                                                       59    58

                                                                                                       h) 2005 tracer study
                                                                                                       found learners' literacy
                                                                                                       and numeracy skills
                                                                                                       diminish over time
                                                                                                       without sufficient
                                                                                                       opportunities to apply
                                                                                                       them. Proficiency levels
                                                                                                       vary according to skill
                                                                                                       area: in reading, 41
                                                                                                       percent proficient;
                                                                                                       letter-writing, 40
                                                                                                       percent; form-filling, 23
                                                                                                       percent; in numeracy,
                                                                                                       58 percent proficient in
                                                                                                       basic math, but lower in
                                                                                                       concepts of weights and
                                                                                                       measures, decimals and
                                                                                                       fractions
3 Establishing       6,900 Continuing          Monitoring reports from    a) 6,900 CECs established    a) 6,900 CECs
Continuing           Education Centers         implementers and BNFE                                   established
Education: programs  (CECs)                                               b) Six Divisional Teams,
established and                                Education and labor        each consisting of 1 Team    b) 6 Divisional Team
implemented          Ten quality courses       market statistics          Leader, 3 Team Members       Leaders, 18 Divisional
                     (later changed to 15)                                and 3 support staff          Team Members and 18
                     and training, reflecting  Longitudinal studies       deputed                      support staff hired and
                     the demand of learners                                                            posted to 6 division-
                     provided by service       IDA/SDC supervision        c) Appoint 230 UPOs, 15      level project offices
                     providers reaching        mission reports            Technical Specia-lists, 64



                                                              20

1.36m                                             Monitoring Associate, S-1   c) Contracts awarded to
                       mid-term and end-of-       Capa-city Strengthening     230 PM-NGOs which,
Increased number and   project evaluation studies consultants                 in turn, deputed an UPO
quality of service                                                            in Upazilas to
provider capacity      ICR                        d) PP revision made to      coordinate with program
building activities.                              accommodate changes in      implementers and stake-
                                                  project period and project  holders
CECs linked to CE                                 design as suggested by
service providers and                             IDA/SDC supervision         d) 5 TSs recruited in
other opportunities                               missions.                   Jun. 01 and 25
such as credits                                                               additional core trainers
                                                  e) Ten quality trade        trained (MAs, DTs). 32
Improved participants'                            courses for CE offered      MAs recruited and
skills level,                                                                 additional 32 MAs
employment and                                    f) Ten quality trade course recruited
economic status, and                              materials for CE
quality of living                                 developed                   e) S1 consultant team's
                                                                              contract signed for 275
                                                  g) 8666 PLCE program        pm, extended to June
                                                  orientation and advocacy    2006 for additional 111
                                                  training given to service   pm
                                                  providers
                                                                              f) RDPP approved by
                                                  h) 920 CE linkages          the Planning
                                                  capacity dev. training      Commission in October
                                                  given to local UPOs and     2005
                                                  service providers
                                                                              g) Fifteen trade courses
                                                  i) Main Tracer Study        of market demand
                                                  done in 2005 on Phase 1     developed & introduced
                                                  PLCE graduates              in CE

                                                                              h) Learners' reading
                                                                              materials on seven
                                                                              cluster trade courses
                                                                              developed & printed for
                                                                              distribution

                                                                              i) Over 1,000 PLCE
                                                                              program orientation &
                                                                              advocacy training
                                                                              courses conducted at
                                                                              district and local level
                                                                              with representatives of
                                                                              CE service
                                                                              provider/stakeholders

                                                                              j) 850 CE linkages
                                                                              capacity development
                                                                              training given to
                                                                              Upazila level NGO
                                                                              representatives (UPO,
                                                                              Supervisor, CMC staff
                                                                              etc.) for delivery of
                                                                              quality CE services to
                                                                              the learners

                                                                              k) Tracer study of Phase
                                                                              1 graduates showed
                                                                              improvement in:
                                                                              i) Household situation:
                                                                              + 55 percent



                                     21

                                                                                                  ii) Regular participation
                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                  community activities: +
                                                                                                  10 percent
                                                                                                  iii) Average Income: +
                                                                                                  10 percent
                                                                                                  The 2nd Tracer Study
                                                                                                  found average daily
                                                                                                  family income of
                                                                                                  graduates estimated at
                                                                                                  Tk.195; improvement
                                                                                                  in household member
                                                                                                  participation in
                                                                                                  decision-making on
                                                                                                  household expenditure;
                                                                                                  participation in
                                                                                                  community matters was
                                                                                                  higher in rural than in
                                                                                                  urban areas
4. Strengthening       PIMU established and    MOPME/BNFE progress        a) Establish PIMU.      a) PIMU was
Instituional           in operation            reports                                            established and in
Capacity: Capacity of                                                     b) Develop PLCE         operation from Jan.01
MOPME/                 Set up of new           Focused capacity and       curriculum, model,      with 31 staff
BNFE and other         procedures and          system analysis studies    training manuals,
stakeholders to design mechanisms to           (baseline and follow-up)   materials, handbook,    b) PLCE curriculum,
and implement post-    strengthen                                         guidebook etc.          imple-mentation model,
literacy and           participation and       IDA/SDC supervision                                training manuals,
continuing education   collaboration among     mission reports            c) Develop financial &  guides, handbooks,
programs increased.    different stake-holders                            accounting manual and   materials were
                                               Mid-term and end-of-       procurement plan        developed and updated
                       Sound financial         project evaluation studies                         several times with
                       management and                                     d) Eight levels of      recommendations from
                       procurement systems     ICR                        professional training   workshops conducted
                       developed                                          given                   with stakeholders

                       Eight levels of                                    e) M&E manual, MIS      c) Smooth financial and
                       professional training                              formats and handbook on procure-ment systems
                       opportunities reaching                             learners' assessment &  developed and in
                       28,500 current and                                 evaluation developed    operation as suggested
                       new BNFE and NGOs                                                          by IDA/ SDC
                       and other non-formal                                                       supervision mission
                       education providers
                       staff, after completion                                                    e) Training of different
                       of training needs                                                          levels of program
                       assessment                                                                 implementers for 4,500
                                                                                                  persons
                       Enhanced M&E
                       system with an                                                             f) Enhanced M&E
                       effective information                                                      system developed; MIS
                       flow mechanism                                                             forms with Monitoring
                       developed, and                                                             Formats for MAs, PI-
                       assessment and studies                                                     NGOs, PM-NGOs,
                       completed                                                                  UPOs, Facili-tators &
                                                                                                  Supervisors devised;
                                                                                                  Handbook on M&E
                                                                                                  system and Learners'
                                                                                                  Assessment / Evaluation
                                                                                                  prepared; Pilot and
                                                                                                  Tracer Study of Phase1
                                                                                                  completed




                                                             22

                                                     Annex 3
                                     Economic and Financial Analysis

Measurement of the Project's Rate of Return on Investment

The Rate of Return on Investment of the PLCEHD project attempts to quantify the benefits of the
program in relation to the funds invested.

Investment costs:

                           Learners        Cumulative     Cost incurred    Annualized  Learners Cost per
                          Completed           Cost        for the Period     Cost      for the  learner


      Project Cost                            (Taka           (Taka          (Taka
                                             million)        million)       million)   Period   (Taka)

 Original estimate           1,386,000         3,651.80

 Actual June 2003              414,000           597.19           597.19        238.88  165,600    1,442

 Actual Dec 2005               414,000         1,323.36           726.16        290.47

 Actual June 2006            563,400*          1,709.86           386.50                149,400    2,587

 Actual June 2007              972,000         2,007.26           297.40        297.40  408,600      728

Source: 2nd Tracer Study, Chapter 4, Table 2.2 * 414,000 + 149,400 = 563,400

The above table indicates that the average investment per learner was Tk.2,065 (US$30
equivalent), based on 972,000 learners who completed the Program as of December 2007. This
reflects average cost per learner, but not abnormal costs incurred, such as during reviews into
NGO contracting and suspension of program delivery, during which time overhead cost
obligations continued to be met. Further refinement of the investment costs is possible if fixed
costs (e.g. administrative costs incurred regardless of the number of learners) are differentiated
from variable costs, which are directly related to the number of learners. This enables derivation
of a standard cost per learner. Comparison of actual and standard costs offers a more refined
understanding of overall project costs.

Return on the investment: Based on the Second Tracer Study, annual returns of the project are
estimated at Tk.1,064 per graduate. As compared to the investment of Tk.2,065 per graduate.

 Daily income of PLCE-1 graduates                            195         Taka
 Daily income of non-PLCE-1 group                            191         Taka
 Improved income of PLCE-1 graduates                         4           per day
 Annual return for PLCE-1 graduates                          1,064       per year
 Estimated Investment per PLCE Graduate                      2,065       Taka

 Estimated Rate of return                                    51.5
                                                             Percent


It is assumed that:
     1. daily income of PLCE-1 graduates, as reported in the post-program survey, was equated
         to the income actually realized by the PLCE-1 graduates and the comparison group;
     2. improved income of PLCE-1 graduates as compared to the comparison group was due to
         the PLCE-1 program;




                                                       23

    3. variation in daily income as reported by individual respondents of the PLCE-1 program,
         reflecting factors such as gender, age group, etc., has been proportionately weighted in
         the average daily income of Tk193 per day reported; and.
    4. improved income will be maintained for about 25 years . For trainees who could find a
         job and keep it for 20-25 years, the return was very high.

In addition, past studies also have highlighted the fact that improved literacy in women could
result in lower mortality rates; higher incidence of child vaccination, better nourished children
and increased awareness of the danger of AIDS.




                                                  24

                                        Annex 4
             Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Ana Maria Jeria           Sr. Human Res. Specialist & TTL    SASED
Daniel Moulton            Education Management Specialist SASED
Cristine Smith            Education Specialist               SASED
Shiva Raj Lohani          Economist                          SASED
Yoko Tanaka               Economic Policy Mgmt. Specialist SASED
HenaG . Mukherjee         Lead Education Specialist          SASED
Habibur Rahman            Education Specialist               SASED
Nancy Zhao                Operations Advisor                 SARVP
Nurul Alam                Sr. Manager
Zafrul slam               Sr. Procurement Specialist         SASPS
M. Mozammal Hoque         Sr. FM Specialist                  SARFM
Nazma Sultana             Program Assistant                  SASED
Deborah Ricks             Program Assistant                  SASED
Mohammad Sayeed           Disbursement Officer               SASPS
Sara Gonzalez ­Flavell    Senior Counsel                     LEGSA
William B. Herbert        Social Sector Team Leader          SASED
Akhtar Hamid              Lead Counsel                       LEGSA
Aya Aoki                  Education Specialist               SASED
Pamela Hunte              Sr. Social Scientist               SASSD
Emmanuel Jimenez          Sector Director                    SASED
Ralph Harbison            Sector Director                    SASED
Alexandra Valerio         Education Specialist               SASED
Jeanne Moulton            Education Specialist               SASED
Alexandria Valero         Education Economist                SASED
Shiva Raj Lohani          Economist                          Consultant
Leah Gutierrez            M&E Specialist                     SASHD
Suraiya Zannath           Financial Mgmt. Specialist         SARFM
Mir Bahadur Bista         Economist                          SASHD
Supervision/ICR
Burhanuddin Ahmed          Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Syed Rashed Al-Zayed       Research Analyst                   SASHD
Aya Aoki                   Consultant                         SASHD
Zafrul Islam               Lead Procurement Specialist        SARPS
Qaiser M. Khan             Lead Human Development Special     SASHD
Pema Lhazom                Operations Officer                 SASHD
Bertha M. Mburugu          Program Assistant                  SASHD
Keiko Miwa                 Task Team Leader                   SASHD
Mohammad Abdus Salam       Temporary                          SACBD
Nazma Sultana              Program Assistant                  SACBD
Harvinder Singh Suri       Consultant                         SARPS
Mark LaPrairie             Task Team Leader                   SASHD



                                           25

Hon-Chan Chai                Consultant                         SASHD

The following persons also worked on the project:

Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC):
Annamarie Minder, Deputy Resident Coordinator/First Secretary
Suzanne Muller, Deputy Resident Coordinator/First Secretary
Tabassum Sakhawat, Program Officer (Education)

Peer Reviewers:
Mae Chu Chang, Lead General Educator
John Oxenham, Sr. Training Officer, WBIES
Haneen I. Sayed, Adviser to Executive Director
John Comings, Director, NCSALL, Harvard University
Kazi Rafiqul Alam Executive Director, Dhaka Ahsania Mission, Bangladesh
Abu Hamid Latif, Professor, Dhaka University, Bangladesh

(b)     Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                             SAP did not exist before 2000            20.83
  FY99                                            "                    140,938.40
  FY00                                              91                 256,472.92
  FY01                                              22                  66,048.75
  FY02                                           0.122                     104.42
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                            Total:             113.122                 463,585.32
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                       0.00
  FY99                                                                       0.00
  FY00                                                                       0.00
  FY01                                            2                          7.44
  FY02                                           27                         94.53
  FY03                                           28.42                  81,442.92
  FY04                                           28.45                  87,173.97
  FY05                                           26.58                 111,326.22
  FY06                                           41.32                  98,647.75
  FY07                                           29.69                  77,327.00
  FY08                                           18.68                  72,398.32
                            Total:             200.14                  528,410.71



                                             26

                                              Annex 5
                                     Beneficiary Survey Results

Pilot Tracer Study
A pilot tracer study was conducted in June 2004 to provide an initial assessment of PLCE-1's
impact on graduates of Phase 1. Its findings showed positive impact in terms of raising the level
of literacy, numeracy and skills competency of learners, although levels varied across work-
related, health and family-related and community-related areas. Overall, learners were satisfied
with the program and the majority would recommend it to others.

First Tracer Study, June 2005
The first tracer study carried out in June 2005, 21 months after completion of Phase 1, consisted
of both quantitative (i.e. surveys) and qualitative (i.e. focus group discussions) analyses. The
sample size for the survey was 1,200 learners, of whom 50 percent were female, using a multi-
stage, random sampling method. A total of 18 focus group discussions were conducted in parallel
with a survey of 180 learners. Subsequent analyses and report preparation were carried out by
international and national consultants under the Association of Canadian Community Colleges
(ACCC) Capacity Strengthening technical assistance package.

Findings of the first tracer study were:
             · findings of the June 2004 pilot tracer study were largely confirmed in terms of
                 literacy, numeracy and skills gains, although reading, writing, numeracy and
                 functional literacy were found to diminish over time;
             · gains achieved in empowering household members, particularly women, in
                 decision-making, appeared to be stable, suggesting that the direction of change
                 was clearly towards more participative or joint decision-making with other
                 household members;
             · positive changes in household practices in hygiene, sanitation and assisting
                 children in their studies tended to be permanent and could likely to be transmitted
                 to the next generation.
             · the project had a positive impact on employment generation and income
                 increases, but appeared to be below potential; impact may have been stronger had
                 there been a wider offering of trade courses under the CE component, and the
                 post-training support services linked graduates with micro-credit and other
                 service providers, such as marketing and technical assistance.
             · compared to the pilot study, the first tracer study showed a smaller proportion of
                 learners who regularly participated in community activities; according to focus
                 groups this was due to an absence of activities in the Continuing Education
                 Centers (CECs) to provide opportunities for participation;
             · learners reported general satisfaction with the performance of the PI and PM
                 NGOs, although approximately 8 to 10 percent were cited as performing poorly;

Second Tracer Study, December 2007
This study involved 1,200 graduates of phases 3A and 4A of the PLCE-1 program who completed
the learning program in June 2006. Graduates were from 120 randomly selected CECs in 20
upazilas, of which three were urban and 17 rural. Among the graduates, 11 percent were males
aged 11-17 and 89 percent aged 18-45, respectively; while 16 and 84 percent were females of the
corresponding age groups. To serve as a comparison group, 690 respondents were selected from
adjacent areas, of which eight and 92 percent were males aged 11-17 and 18-45, respectively, and



                                                  27

17 percent and 83 percent were females of the corresponding age groups. Comparison group
respondents had socioeconomic characteristics similar to those of PLCE-1 graduates, such as
proficiency in reading, writing, [social] awareness, household hygiene and sanitation practices. A
total of 16 focus discussion groups (eight groups each of males and females) were conducted to
ascertain graduates' views on the PLCE-1 program. Eight focus group discussions were
conducted among the comparison group.

Findings of the second tracer study were:
    · average daily family income and expenditure of PLCE-1 graduates were found to be
         Taka 195.5 and Taka 159.0, respectively. For non-PLCE-1 respondents, average daily
         family income was Taka 191.0 and expenditure was the same as that of the graduates;
         there was no significant difference between the two groups in terms of household
         economic conditions and productive assets;
    · approximately 52 percent of PLCE-1 graduates could proficiently read posters, billboards
         and signboards, 12 percent were able to read very proficiently; 35 percent could
         proficiently read newspaper articles, 44 percent could read with slight proficiency and six
         percent could read very proficiently; three percent could analyze a written paragraph very
         proficiently, 19 percent could do so proficiently, and 43 percent with slight proficiency;
         overall, PLCE graduates performed better than the non-PLCE respondents.
    · about 40 percent of graduates were proficient at letter writing, 39 percent were slightly
         proficient, and 17 percent were not proficient; non-PLCE-1 respondents showed lower
         proficiency in letter-writing;
    · Filling up Forms and Receipts. About 23 percent were proficient, 38 percent slightly
         proficient, and 35 percent were not proficient. The generally lower proficiency in this
         skill was attributed to the fact that the graduates seldom had practice in filling up forms,
         etc. A higher proportion of non-PLCE respondents were not proficient in this skill (2nd
         Tracer Study, para. 4.3.5).
    · Numeracy. The graduates were tested in addition, subtraction, multiplication and
         division, decimals and fractions, weights and distance, preparing a budget for the family
         or for a small business. Proficiency was lowest (23 percent) in preparing a family budget,
         and highest (58 percent) in addition and subtraction. About 46 percent were proficient in
         multiplication and division, but were not proficient in concepts of weights and measures,
         decimals and fractions (2nd Tracer Study, para. 4.4).
    · General Awareness. The graduates showed they had an increased awareness about health
         care, family planning, human rights, natural disasters, socio-economic development, etc.
         Proficiency was highest in respect of health care (48 percent) and family planning (47
         percent), but lowest on socio-economic matters.
    · Participation in Decision-Making Process for Household Expenditure. There is a
         significant improvement in participation after the PLCE program in both urban and rural
         areas, especially among the 18-45 age group. Both male and female graduates showed
         increased participation after the PLCE program, with male graduates having a slightly
         higher participation rate than female graduates.
    · Participation in Decision-Making Process. After the PLCE program for both rural and
         urban areas, there appeared to be a significant improvement in participation in money-
         custody and other household activities, but the degree of improvement was not uniform
         across activities, such as purchase of clothes, medicare attention, marriage of children, etc.
         Joint decision-making was prevalent for all young and adult, male and female graduates.
    · Practice of Functional Literacy in Household Activities. Practice improved among all
         age groups and genders in household cleanliness and personal hygiene (washing hands
         before a meal and after using the toilet), assisting children in their studies, using



                                                   28

  respectful language when talking with household members, holding family get-togethers,
  etc.
· Participation in Social Programs. After the PLCE program, participation was higher in
  rural than in urban areas in such activities as micro-credit, farmer association, village and
  religious organizations, parent-teacher associations, center management committees,
  political rallies, people's welfare projects, advocacy committees, etc. Participation rates
  were higher among male graduates than among female graduates, but there was no
  significant difference among age groups.
· Findings from FGDs. Sixteen FGDs were conducted with 100 male and 95 female
  graduates. Most of them had participated in the PLCE program to learn a trade and
  improve their livelihood with the expectation of becoming educated and enlightened
  members of society. They also hoped that after completing the program the NGOs would
  arrange for their employment or for short-term loans to run their own business, but the
  NGOs did not perform this function.




                                           29

                      Annex 6
       Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                        30

                                               Annex 7
                 Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development (PLCEHD) Project-I was
introduced by the government starting from January 2001 with co-financing from IDA and SDC.
On completion of the project on 31 December 2007, borrower's Implementation Completion
Report was prepared in IMED Formats and was sent to the World Bank in January 2008 (copy
attached). Below is borrower's comment on draft ICR.

The overall objectives and activities of PLCEHD Project-I were comprehensive. GOB proposed
the project based on experiences with NFE projects implemented by former DNFE (now BNFE)
aiming to (i) provide continuing education to the neo-literates for increasing their incomes
through skills training and (ii) strengthen national framework of non-formal education, and (iii)
increase institutional capacity of NFE agencies towards effective implementation of PLCE
programs.

Components were to ensure (a) enhanced NFE system by strengthening the national framework
on non-formal education and publicizing the same at national and local levels, (b) delivery of
improved post literacy and continuing education to an estimated targeted neo-literates of 1.36
million (of which 0.65 million women) and (c) development of stronger delivery system for the
program implementation institutions/agencies.

On the whole, the project has achieved its objectives. (a) Based on the four draft policy paper on
NFE national framework prepared by the project towards enhanced NFE system, GOB has
introduced the National Policy on NFE Framework effective January 2006; (b) The project has
delivered PLCE training to 0.9729 million neo-literates (of which, 0.49 million female) with
NGO participation covering 71.4% of target beneficiaries; (c) On completion of project period,
all the 6900 community education centers of the project have been handed over with all
equipments/furniture/materials etc. to the community for continuity under local sponsorship and
also to the local administrations. Trainers' training given by the project to centre teachers (13800),
supervisors (460), master trainers (2100) and field level program implementers (4500) during the
course of PLCE program operations would be of assistance to the local community in running the
centers effectively. All these Trainers are well equipped with PLCE training materials. (d)
Covenants compliance was satisfactory. According to independent performance audit reports
(two), overall project performance of the project on planning, monitoring & implementation was
satisfactory. Independent report on both the Tracer Studies also indicated the PLCE program
delivery was effective and successful in the sense that most of the learners could improve their
livelihood with better family living and better participation in the community. It may be
mentioned here that in last couple of Aid Memoire Reports the satisfaction was expressed for
clearly monitoring and supervision of the program activities by PIMU, and central and field level
officials of BNFE. It is really a shock to all of us for not getting the project extension by World
Bank. It was really the pick time when the monitoring of the activities was geared up and at that
moment we had no other option but to stop the project.

Actual project costs were Taka 2538.627 million equivalent US$ 44.54 (US$1= Taka 57/-)
million. Physical progress was of 77.28 %.

Lessons learned are that: (a) NGO selection procedure needs to be simplified. The project could
very well reach 102% of learners target within the project period, but delay in getting donor's
approval (1.5 years) to the list of selected NGOs for phases 3, 4 & 5, the project suffered from



                                                   31

time constraint to run phases 6 & 7 and reach the target, (b) Incentive in the form of post training
support to the learners for income generation is needed.

Donors' performance was satisfactory. SDC discontinued financing in the project 1.5 years before
completion of the project requiring changes in financing plan at the running stage. The
performances of International Consultants were not satisfactory. Even the international
consultants did not try to upgrade the capacity of the PIMU officials as well as of the local
consultants. It is sorry to say that the international consultant did not hand over the soft copy of
materials to BNFE or PIMU they have produced during project period.

1.       General Observations/Remarks of the Project on:

1.1      Background:
The DNFE was engaged in implementing four literacy projects at an estimated cost of Tk.
127662.00 lakh. The estimated target populations of these four projects were 345.54 lakh illiterate
of aged 11-45 years. Non Government Organizations (NGOs) were engaged as implementation
associate in these projects under the management of the then DNFE and overall leadership of
PMED. On the other hand following TLM model development during INFEP period, the total
literacy Movement (TLM) programs were being undertaken in Districts by Local
Administration and civil society under the leadership of Deputy Commissioner (DC). DNFE
provided technical support and funded to the District Administration for TLIvf. So far 7 Districts
out of 64 in the country have been declared to achieve full literacy (population of 11-45 years age).
The Districts are Lalmonirhat, Chuandanga, Rajshahi, Magura, Joypurhat, Gazipur and
Sirajgonj.

1.2.     Post Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development (PLCEHD) Project-1:
The "Post Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development (PLCEHD) Project-
1" is functioning in 6900 'Post Literacy and Continuing Education (PLCE)' training centers
in 205 upazilas, 32 districts, 6 divisions of Bangladesh after the formalities of the selection of
the NGOs for the project activities. The subvention committee had contracted NGOs to run 6900
PLCE learning centers where large numbers of learner lived. Directorate of Non-formal Education
(renamed as Bureau of Non-formal Education, BNFE) is the executing authority of the project.
Senior Management committee (SMC) chaired by Director General, BNFE formed to
oversee the functioning of the project. District Non-Formal Education Committee (DNFEC)
chaired by Deputy Commissioner formed to monitor the implementation of the project at the
district level. Upazila Non-formal Education Committee (UNFEC) chaired by Upazila Nirbahi
Officer (UNO) formed to monitor the implementation of the project at the Upazila level which is
the second tier of the project implementation system at the local level.


1.3. Estimated Cost
Taka in lakh)
                                     Original                       Latest Revised

     Total                           36516.00                       34112.00

     Taka                            5477.40                        4738.40

     Foreign Currency                1189.26                        1203.77

     Project Aid                     29849.34                       29373.60
                                     29849.34                       29373.60
(e) RPA
08. Implementation Period



                                                   32

                               Date of Commencement              Date of Completion
     Original                  January 2001                      December 2005

     Latest Revised            January 2001                      December 2007

 (c) Actual ,                  April 2001                        December 2007


1.4.    Specific Objectives:
        (1)     To include 1.3626 million neo literate in post literacy programs to consolidate,
                maintain and upgrade the literacy skills they have acquired previously.

        (2)     To include an equal number of learners, who have completed the post literacy course,
                in continuing education program for increasing their incomes through skills
                training in order to foster a better life style and to develop them as enlightened
                and productive citizens.

        (3)     To involve the target population of 1.3626 million neo-literates in a life long
                educational process.

        (4)     To strengthen the national framework of non-formal education and develop
                functional definitions of literacy, post literacy and continuing education in
                Bangladesh.

        (5)     To strengthen the capacity of BNFE and other agencies involved in Non-
                formal education in order to strengthen literacy and continuing education
                programs and to make them more effective.

2.1.    Project revision with reasons
Against the original design and period of the project a revision needs to be done with some key
reasons as:

        (1)     The actual implementation began about one and half year later than the scheduled
                time.

        (2)     Selection of PI-NGOs of phases of 3A and 4A took too much time.

        (3)     The project achieved only 29.85% against its targeted 13.626 lakhs neo literate
                within the original period of December 2005.

2.2.    The main features of the revision:

        (i)     Shrinking of project location from 230 upazilas to205 upazilas under which all
                the target 6900 centers have been accommodated within the target 32 districts
                under 6 divisions of the country.
        (ii)    Realignment of learners' target at 1.3626 million instead of 1.656 million
                learners (this was an error in the original PP) to adjust the year-wise schedule of
                works of original PP.
        (iii)   Making provision for overhead administrative and other required incidental costs
                for implementation of project activities.
        (iv)    Piloting audio visual aids on cluster CE trade courses and preparing video film in
                CD.


                                                 33

(v)    Extension of Contract for Supervisors beyond 3 months' PL up to CE completion
       period of another 6 months.
(vi)   Renewal of contract for PI-NGOs beyond one Phase with further extension based
       on satisfactory performances.
(vii)  Recruitment of additional Core Trainers and Monitoring Associates as per actual
       requirement.
(viii) Cost adjustment among various PP components with provisions for Tracer Study,
       printing of documents (viz. learners' reading materials, course completion
       certificates, training materials, reports, manuals etc.), 'local training / workshops
       of Master Trainers, UN0s, ADs etc., adjustment of overseas training, fuel costs of
       project vehicles for official uses by ministries and preparation of a Directory of
       skill development services/ resource providers in Bangladesh on income
       generating activities (IGA).

(ix)   Extension of PIMU manpower including contract staff and consultancy services
       viz-a-viz realignment of PIMU work in the absence of DNFE.
(x)    Extension of project period beyond December-2005 for another two years up to
       December-2007 to achieve project target.
(xi)   Making provision for meeting unforeseen unavoidable expenses causing from
       natural calamities like flood, cyclone etc. and
(xii)  Adjustment of project costs among various components viz-a-viz variations in
       SDR-Dollar and Dollar-Taka exchange rates during project period and
       Reallocation of US $ 14.00 million from IDA Credit for infrastructure
       development of govt. primary schools in the project named
       "Rehabilitation/Reconstruction of 2004 Flood Affected Primary School
       Buildings."




                                         34

A.      Achievement of objectives of the project


3.1.    Achievements Vs. Objectives :
     Objectives as per PP                      Actual achievement        Reasons for shortfall,
                                                                         if any

    (a To include 1.3626 million neo        972,900 learners were        Due to abolition of then
       literate in post literacy programs tocovered within phases 1 to 5 DNFE, delayed start
       consolidate, maintain and            up to December 31, 2007.     and lapsing too much
       upgrade the literacy skills they     (71.4% of total target)      time to select PI-
       have acquired previously.                                         NGOs, last two phases
                                                                         (6 & 7) were not
                                                                         implemented.
    (b To include an equal number of        Included an equal number     -
     learners, who have completed the       of
     post literacy course, in continuing    learners, who have
     education program for increasing       completed
     their incomes through skills           the post literacy course, in
     training in order to foster a better   continuing education
     life style and to develop them as      program
     enlightened and productive citizens. for increasing their incomes
                                            through skills training in
                                            order to foster a better life
                                            style and to develop them as
                                            enlightened and productive
                                            citizens.

    (c
     To involve the target population in a  Most of the learners
     life long educational process.         attended in the courses are
                                            somehow involved in life
                                            long educational process.    -
                                            This objective is partially
    (dTo strengthen the national            achieved.
     framework of non-formal education
     and develop functional definitions
     of literacy, post literacy and                                      -
     continuing education in Bangladesh.

(e)  To strengthen the capacity of BNFE This objective is                -
     and other agencies involved in non- partially achieved.
     formal education in order to
     strengthen literacy and continuing
     education programs and to make it
     more effective.




                                                 35

3.2.    Component-wise Progress (As per latest approved PP):

                                                                        (Taka in lakh)
 Items of work                   Target (as per PP)    Actual Progress    Reasons for
(as per PP)               Unit   Financial   Physical  Financial  Physica deviation
                                             (Quantity            l       (+)
                                             )                    (Quanti
                                                                  ty
1                         2      3           4         5          6       7
1. Machinery & Equipment  nos.       66.70   175           52.41  160          14.29
2. Transport/ Vehicle     nos.      265.80   9            157.51  7            108.29
including CD/VAT
3. Furniture              nos.       19.60   434            19.02 434            0.58
4. Manpower (PIMU)        perso     311.60   31           216.73  31           94.87
                          n
5. Consultancy Services   pm      1,519.40   465         1,489.48 485           29.92
6. Contract Services of   pm        900.00   5739         720.74  3863         179.26
   Specific
   & Specialist nature
7. Local Training         perso     285.10   37800        227.34  5974         57.76
                          n
8. Workshop               nos.      265.00   8845           66.43 656          198.57
9. Study Tour & Short     perso     380.30   102                  74           97.09
   Term                   n                            283.21
   Foreign Training
10. Support to PLCE       lac    27,247.00   13.626    21,456.23  9.73      5790.77
Program:                  learne
    ( PI-NGOs, PM-NGOs)   rs
11. Publicity & Social    LS        300.00   LS            88.71  LS           211.29
    Mobilization
12. Monitoring,           LS        332.00   LS            68.94  LS           263.06
    Evaluation &
    Reporting
13. Books & Publications  LS        350.00   LS             6.06  LS           343.94
14. Study Reports &       LS          5.00   LS             5.00  LS             0.00
    Printing
15. Operation &           LS        612.60   LS           528.33  LS            84.27
    Maintenance
16. Contingency           LS      1,251.90   LS        0.00       LS        1,251.90
TOTAL                            34112.00              25386.27             +8725.73




                                          36

4.      Analysis of the Post-Implementation situation and result of the project:

4.1     Whether the beneficiaries of the project have clear knowledge about the Target/
        Objectives of the project. YES

4.2.    Programme for use of created-facilities of the project:
If the centers remain operational, the awareness of the learners, the guardians and local
people will increase and the continuity of the literacy activities will be sustained. So, it was
the responsibility of the UNFEC to maintain the center after the completion of the project. After
the completion of the activities, the NGOs handed over the center to the relevant UNFEC.
Accordingly the UNFEC handed over the centers to the relevant Union Council Chairman or a
Member of the relevant CMC or local Government Primary School Teacher. They should be able
to run the centers themselves'in the interest of the development of the people. All necessary
measures have been taken by the PI-NGOs to hand over the centers to the community.

4.3.    O&M Programme of the Project:

Management and Control System:

1.      Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU): For project management
and implementation the Project Implementation and Management Unit (PIMU) of PLCEHD-1
was the responsible set up under the BNFE.
2.      Various Committees: Bureau of Non-Formal Education (BNFE) is the executing
authority of the project and will facilitate its implementation through various committees setup for
the purpose.

Role of these committees are described below:


A.      National Council For Primary & Mass Education: The Government has set up a
National Council for Primary and Mass Education headed by the honorable Prime Minister. This
council will act as an advisory and guiding forum for policy, planning and other matters related to
primary education and non-formal education.

B.      National Advisory Council for Non-formal Education: The Government has set
up a National Advisory Council for Non-formal Education headed by the honorable
Advisor/Minister, Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) consisting of Secretary,
MOPME; Secretary, Ministry of Education; Secretary, Ministry of Religion Affairs; Secretary,
Ministry of Social Welfare; Secretary, Ministry of Women and Children Affairs; Ministry of
Labor and Manpower; Joint Secretary (Dev), MOPME; Director, IER, DU; Dr. Mahbub Hossain,
Executive Director, BRAC; Mr. Kazi Rafiqul Alam, Executive Director, Dhaka Ahsania Mission
and Begum Resheda K. Chowdhury as members and DG, BNFE as member secretary.

C.      The Project Co-ordination Committee (PCC) : with the secretary of MOPME as
convener, consisting of Joint Secretary (Dev), MOPME; DG, BNFE; representative (Deputy
Secretary level) of Ministry of Planning; Deputy Chief (Education Wing), Planning Commission;
representative (Deputy Secretary level) of Ministry of Finance; Deputy Secretary (Dev),
MOPME; Deputy Chief (Planning), MOPME; 2 NGO representatives as members and PD,
PLCEHD-1 as member secretary will formulate policy guidelines and directives. The PCC would
oversee the project and ensure effective co-ordination of project activities with other projects and
activities in the MOPME. The BCC would help develop partnerships and linkages with the other



                                                     37

ministries and Government departments, NGOs, credit organizations, banks and private sector
organizations to support the roject if would review and approve the annual implementation plan of
                                 p

the project. It will also facilitate the development of national framework for NFE.

D.      Senior Management Committee (SMC) chaired by DG, BNFE and represented by
senior officers of BNFE and PIMU will oversee the functioning of the project. The SMC will
comprise the Director (Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation and MIS) and Director
(Administration, Finance, Logistic and Training) as member and Project Director, PLCEHD1
(and/or -3) as member secretary.

E.      District Non-formal Education Committee(DNFEC) : To monitor the
implementation of the project at the District level there will be a committee known as DNFEC
which is the first tier of project implementation system at the local level. The respective
Deputy Commissioner will be the chairman of the committee. Assistant Director, DBNFE,
working at the District will work as member secretary of the committee. The responsible
Honorable Minister of the District will be the chief patron while the honorable MPs will be
patrons of the committee. This committee will look after the implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the program.

F.      Upazila Non Formal Education Committee (UNFEC): To monitor the
implementation      of the project at the Upazila level there will be a committee known as
UNFEC which is the second tier of project implementation system at the local level. Upazila
Nirbahi Officer (UNO) will be the chairman of the committee while Upzila Program Co-
ordinator (UPC) working at the Upazila will work as member secretary of the committee.
The honorable Member of Parliament elected from the concerned Upazila/Municipal area will
be the chief patron of the committee while Union Council / Municipal Chairman will be the
patron of the committee. This committee will look after the program implementation at Upzila
level and keep the District committee informed about different aspects of the program.

G.      Center Management Committee (CMC): For each PLCE center there would be 9 members
Center Management Committee (CMC) to guide and direct the center's development program.
The CMC would consist of the following categories of persons:
A     UP Chairman/Member/Local Elite                 Chairman

      Senior Center Facilitator                      Member Secretary
B     Junior Center Facilitator                      Member

D     Local elite/persons interested in education   6 members would be selected from this

E     Learners or their guardians                   category subject to the condition that at least
                                                    3membersofthecommitteemustbefemale.


 The above committee would meet at least once a month to review the progress of the program and
 take appropriate decisions. The CMCs Would advise on how the center would be managed, how
 it would operate, how it would be maintained, what kinds of services and activities it would provide,
 and how its security would be assured.




                                                     38

 4.4.    Impact of the project:

 4.4.1. Direct: The target neo-literates received skill training on the basis of existing and future
 demands of the local labor and industrial market. As they received training on different trade
 trades, they will be able to earn more in their respective trades.

 4.4.2. Indirect: Scope of employment and self-employment will be created and as a result of
 that people would be engaged in income generating activities and consequently their liking
 standard would he improved.

 4.5.    Transfer of Technology and Institutional Building through the project:

The learners received training on one trade out of the following 15 (fifteen) trades:

1.       Dairy. 2. Cow Fattening and Goat Rearing. 3. Bee Cultivation. 4. Food Processing. 5.
         Tailoring. 6. Chalk, Candle and Soap Manufacturing. 7. Poultry. 8. Bamboo, Cane
         and Paper Bag Product. 9. Fish Cultivation. 10. Nursery, Vegetables, Fruits and
         Flower Cultivation. 11. By-cycle, Rickshaw, Van, Key and Lock Repairing. 12.
         Masonry and Pipe Fitting. 13. Shallow Machine Repairing and Welding. 14. Electric
         House Wiring and 15. Block Batik, Screen Printing and Embroidery.

         After the completion of the activities, the NGOs handed over the PLCE center to the relevant
         UNFEC. Accordingly the UNFEC handed over the centers to the relevant Union Council
         Chairman or a Member of the relevant CMC. They should be able to run the centers
         themselves in the interest of the development of the people.
4.6.     Employment generation through the project: Supervisor, Junior and Senior
 Facilitators of the PLCEHD-1 project, Upazila Program Organizars (UPOs), Project
Implementation and Monitoring Unit (PIMU) Officials, Monitoring Associates (MAs),
Technical Specialists (TS) and Divisional Teams (DTs) of the PLCEHD-1 project and others had
been employed.

4.7.     Possibility of Self employment: Different types of life oriented skill training
imparted to the learners so that they can generate income and be self-dependent in the society.
                                             ,
Experience and expertise were gained to formulate and implement continuing education
program. The neo-literates were given skill training on the basis of the existing and future demands
of the local labor and industrial market. Moreover, scope for employment and self-employment
for hundreds of educated unemployed youths were created under this project.

4.8.     Possibility of women-employment opportunity: About 50% of the participants were
women. Direct possibility of self employment for the target is possible through provide skill
training.
4.9.     Women's participation in development: As the 50% of the target group are women,
they become aware on various issues like health nutrition, basic human rights and they are
participated in different development work.
4.10.    Probable Impact on Socio-Economic activity: The neo-literates were given skill
training on the basis of the existing and future demands of the local labor and industrial market.
Moreover, scope for employment and self-employment for hundreds of educated unemployed
youths were created under this project. About 50% of the participants were women. Different
types of life oriented skill training imparted to them so that they can generate income and be
self-dependent in the society. Increased awareness through the project has a positive impact on
environment and environmental protection. The project has covered 972900 learners within
phases 1 to 5 up to December 31, 2007 (71.4% of total target) by the project activities. About
972900 peoples has been benefited those were aged between 11-45 years by providing non-


                                                    39

formal basic education equivalent to class three (Grades III) of formal education. The learners
received training on one trade out of the following 15 (fifteen) trades:


1.     Dairy. 2. Cow Fattening and Goat Rearing. 3. Bee Cultivation. 4. Food Processing. 5.
       Tailoring. 6. Chalk, Candle and Soap Manufacturing. 7. Poultry. 8. Bamboo, Cane and
       Paper Bag Product: 9. Fish Cultivation. 10. Nursery, Vegetables, Fruits and Flower
       Cultivation. 11. By-cycle, Rickshaw, Van, Key and Lock Repairing. 12. Masonry and Pipe
       Fitting. 13. Shallow Machine Repairing and Welding. 14. Electric House Wiring and 15.
       Block Batik, Screen Printing and Embroidery.

       A mechanism for the GO-NGO collaboration and co-operation was established.
       Experience and expertise were gained to formulate and implement continuing
       education program.

4.11. Impact on environment: The target people became aware on different
environment related issues as those were the part of curriculum.

4.12.    Sustainability of the project: PIMU and BNFE considered that in order to keep the
centers operational after the completion of 9-month duration, it was essential to give the
responsibility to CMC in this manner to manage the centers. Ever since the inception of
the centers the question of properly running of the centers were discussed every month
in the CMC meetings as well as in meetings with the elites and guardians at different times.
All necessary measures have been taken by the PI-NGOs to hand over the centers to
the community beforehand and orientation were given to them so that the activities
were not cease on expiry of the 9-month program rather these should be continued to
run properly. If the centers remain operational, the awareness of the learners, the
guardians and local people w ill increase and the continuity of the literacy activities will
be sustained. So, it was the responsibility of the UNFEC to maintain the center after the
completion of the project. After the completion of the activities, the NGOs handed over the
PLCE center to the relevant UNFEC. Accordingly the UNFEC handed over the centers to
the relevant Union Council Chairman or a Member of the relevant CMC or a Teacher,
local Government. Primary School: They should be able to run the centers themselves
in the interest of the development of the people.

4.13. Contribution to poverty alleviation/reduction: Provision of skill based training
on different trades was in the project for employment and self-employment for the target
people. Because the incidence of national poverty in 2000 was 44.3%, and about 20% of the
poor lived in `hardcore poverty (defined as consuming less than 1805 kcal as per the direct
calorie measure) (sources: BBS, Household Income and Expenditure Survey, 2000). Poverty and
illiteracy are intern oven in Bangladesh. Each is the cause and effect of the other.


4.14.    Opinion of the public representatives, local elite, local administration, teachers,
religious leaders, women's representatives etc. Satisfactory opinions were shown in all the
study reports of the project.


4.15.    Contribution of Micro-credit programmes and Comments on overlapping
with any NGO activities: N/A.




                                                40

5.      Problems encountered during Implementation (with duration & steps
taken to remove those)


5.1     Project Management: Due to delay in the processing of the recruitment of NGOs
(including approval of NGO lists by World Bank) for start of phase 3A & 4A, phases 3B & 4B
phases 5, achievement in PLCE training delivery as at the end of project period on 31
December 2007 will not exceed 72% of learners' target.
5.2.     Project Director: N/A

5.3.     Land Acquisition: N/A

5.4 .    Procurement: N/A

5.5.     Consultancy: N/A

5.6.     Contractor: N/A

5.7.     Manpower: N/A

5.8.     Law & Order: N/A

5.9.     Natural calamity: N/A

5.10.   Project financing, allocation and release: Change in financing plan on account of
non-extension of SDC grant beyond 30 June 2006 and re-allocation of IDA credit
(unallocated amount) towards cost coverage for the shortfall in SDC cost sharing for the
period from 01 July 2006 to 31 December 2007.

5.11.    Design fomulation/approval:            N/A
5.12. Project aid disbursement and re-imbursement: N/A

5.13. Mission of the development partners: N/A

5.14.   Time & Cost Over-run: The closing date of the IDA credit was on 31 December
2005. Due to delayed start of the project and approval of NGOs lists by World Bank significant
number of activities of the project were remained incomplete. So, extended the closing date of
credit up to December 2007 by revising the project without increasing the cost.

5.15.   Project Supervision on/Inspection: No major problems were identified.

5.16.   Delay in Decision: N/A

5.17. Transport: In, August 2004, total procurement has gone up to 7 vehicles as
against to 9.

5.18. Training: N/A
5.19. Approval: N/A
5.20. Others: N/A

Key Lessons Learned

Lessons learned are that : (a) NGO selection procedure needs to be simplified. The project could
very well reach 102% of learners target within the project period, but delay in getting donor's
approval (1.5 years) to the list of selected NGOs for phases 3, 4 & 5, the project suffered from



                                                  41

time constraint to run phases 6 & 7 and reach the target, (b) Incentive in the form of post training
support to the learners for income generation is needed.




                                                42

                                               Annex 8
                  Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Generally, Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), co-financier for PLCE HD1, opines that the
project was an important project for Bangladesh as it made very important contributions and
lessons in the sub sector of non-formal education in relation to the following points: The project
was able to bring back the issues of literacy and skills development, specifically for
disadvantaged young people and adults, into the agenda of the Government of Bangladesh (GoB),
its people and Development Partners; it created general awareness and motivation among
disadvantaged young people and adults about the need for education and skills development; it
identified a successful module (through trial and error) to impart life skills and livelihood skills to
the aforesaid population; it developed curriculum, training materials, trade modules, manuals and
identified supplementary education material necessary for imparting post-literacy and continuing
education to learners; conducted relevant studies (e.g. for an equivalency program, perspective
plan, advocacy etc.) which can be used to further develop the non-formal education (NFE) sub-
sector; it developed capacity within the GoB and relevant stakeholders; it significantly
contributed to develop the NFE Policy and its institutional mechanism (many other actors and
initiatives contributed to this process. See Annex 2.); and it imparted literacy and trade skills to a
huge number of population.

There were many challenges faced during the project period. These have been mentioned in
Annex 1. However, the most critical issue for the project, which was also the main reason for
SDC to discontinue its support, was the overall governance of the project and, specifically, in
regard to the selection of NGOs as service providers for the project. There had been allegations
about this issue through letters which were also highlighted through media reports during each
phase of the project but the World Bank (WB) informed SDC that its Internal Integrity Unit (IIU)
was unable to take actions as the letters were anonymous. Considering WB's limitation, SDC's
took the initiative to conduct a sample study to look into this issue and the study was able to
identify serious loopholes in the NGO selection design. This study allowed the WB and
eventually the GoB to look in-depth into the issue and reconfirm that there were serious
procedural deficiencies in the project design which had lead to mismanagement and misuse. The
WB's IIU eventually conducted a mission on this issue during 11 ­ 20 July 2006 and was
expected to share its report but SDC has not received a copy of this till date.

Last but not least, SDC feels that SDC's contribution and role in the project has not been
sufficiently acknowledged. SDC supported the project from its initiation in 2001 till June 2006.
During this time, SDC not only provided financial and additional technical support to the project,
but also played a critical and strategic role in enhancing the quality and governance of the project.
SDC has also served as an institutional memory and a bridge for the project as key actors within
the GoB and WB had been changed numerous times. SDC served as the Vice Chair (2003- 2005)
and Chair (2005-2007) of the Local Consultative sub Group on Education (ELCG) and played an
important role to bring together all relevant DPs to support the project during its most critical
periods (e.g. the abolishment of the DNFE). Though SDC stopped financially supporting the
project beyond June 2006, it has continued to provide such critical support through SDC's role in
the ELCG.

SDC would expect that all of the above mentioned issues should be mentioned in the final report:
the positive achievements, the problems faced (incl. mismanagement) as well as SDC strategic
contribution.




                                                  43

Annex 1: Challenges for the PLCE 1 project.

(Note: These issues have been taken into consideration during the reformulation of PLCE 2)

Issues
   Existing structure     On the GoB side, frequent changes/transfers of key personnel
prevented continuity of   e.g. Secretary, Project Director (PD) etc. caused major disruption in the
key staff                 project in terms of the continuity of the project in general, the continuity
                          of professionalism and quality. On the side of development partners, also
                          due to the existing structure, the project experienced the change of key
                          staff e.g. Task Team Leader. This also created challenges. A large staff
                          turnover was seen during the project life at various levels of
                          implementation which lead to slackness and inefficiency. Some of these
                          were due to the delays in the project. But otherwise, many staff left as they
                          found better jobs.
2. Issue of `capacity     The training component was not based on a human resource development
   development' need      plan derived from a professional institutional / organizational analysis.
   to be reviewed.        The project initiated `capacity development' by strengthening staff through
                          different training programmes in country and abroad. In country training
                          was limited mostly to DNFE staff and was lost when DNFE was abolished
                          or with the transfer of staff. Out of country training were provided to high
                          level GoB (MoPME, PM's Office, ERD etc) personnel. Most of these
                          where limited to tours of developed countries (USA, Canada, Australia,
                          New Zealand, UK, etc) where non formal education does not exist or is not
                          a priority or where the definition and scope of continuing education are not
                          relevant to a developing country context. Most of the personnel who
                          availed these training were not relevant for the project (e.g. PM's protocol
                          officer etc.) or had eventually left the project due to transfer or change in
                          jobs. So the investment in terms of finance and time is questionable.
3. Decision making        Decision making authority was not sufficiently decentralized nor clear at
   process not            PD level. Most decision had to wait for ministry approval which delayed
   effective.             progress significantly. Similarly, as the Task Team Leader (TTL) was
                          based in Washington and would come to Bangladesh only during missions
                          or reviews. Follow up from the local office was not systematic and was
                          done mainly by consultants or officers who had no significant decision
                          making authority in regard to the project. Follow up was not done on a
                          systematic and timely basis. Lack of delegation made it difficult to support
                          the GoB to address issues which needed immediate attention. Most issues
                          needed to wait to be addressed till the supervision missions or reviews.
4. Coordination and       There were no regular coordination meetings among GoB and
   collaboration          Development Partners (DP) other than the mission review events. For such
   inadequate and not     a large project, coordination should have been more regular at the
   systematic             implementation level. An effective feedback mechanism was not in place
                          and therefore lessons from the project / field could not be addressed
                          properly or in time and at the appropriate levels. Bi annual supervision
                          missions were often rushed without adequate time for required
                          consultation among and between stakeholders (GoB, SDC & WB).
                          Decisions about date for missions and meetings were not always
                          consultative. There was limited scope for discussions between SDC and
                          WB. Efforts for joint decision-making were more the interest of SDC
                          rather than the WB. Letters / documents were not systematically shared


                                               44

                        with SDC though SDC was mentioned as to be copied to in the documents
                        /letters. SDC was mot mentioned /acknowledged during discussions / in
                        documents. This situation improved somewhat, but only because SDC had
                        to constantly remind both WB and the GoB that it is also a co-financier of
                        the project.
5. Internal efficiency  The PLCE 1 project closing date was December 31, 2005. Only about 35
   was weak             percent of its funds had been utilized at this point. Though the project
                        faced major challenges (1 year delay to initiate the project at field level
                        due to re-selection of NGOs working for phase 1; crisis created due to the
                        dissolution of the DNFE and the time required to put in place the BNFE;
                        review of the selection process for NGOs working for phase 3 & 4 etc.)
                        during its life cycle, concerns about the internal efficiency of the project
                        was a matter which needs to be looked into. Efforts provided by both WB
                        and SDC to strengthen the efficiency, transparency and accountability of
                        the financial management (e.g. installation of ACPAC system, training of
                        key personnel etc.) in order to increase efficiency and transparency have
                        been futile as there was too much resistance at project level, specially from
                        the accounts and financial related personnel. Rigidity in WB procurement
                        procedures also created problems as
                        it did not synchronize with the project (GoB) financial reporting
                        procedures therefore the project needed to prepare various reports which
                        was time consuming. Out of 82 audit objections during the life time of the
                        project 52 remained unaddressed till SDC's project closing date. The
                        quality of audit by audit firms selected by the GoB was an issue as they
                        failed to detect anomalies in the NGO selection process although this was
                        included in their TOR's which reflects on their professionalism and which
                        was identified by SDC / WB Auditor. A study revealed that NGOs with
                        financial statements certified by Government Officers and firms not
                        recognised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh were
                        selected. The NGO selection procedure did not have any provision of
                        authenticating through physical verification/checking on the actual
                        existence, quality/capacity of pre selected NGOs to delivery services
                        before issuing of contracts which flaw was revealed in the independent
                        study carried out by SDC / WB. One major fault identified was ambiguity
                        in what constitutes NFE experience; Another fault identified was it was
                        not clear who should be authorised at the UZ level to authenticate "NFE
                        experience" of an NGO and the basis of this authentication.
6. More attention and   The documents prepared during planning had major defects i.e.target
   time needed to be    group being identified as 1.6, whereas it was actually 1.3; RFP being
   given to planning    faulty, the criterias being too broad, ambiguous and not specific enough;
   phase                which caused not only delay in the project due to numerous revisions of
                        the project document but also misinterpretation and misuse of the NGO
                        selection process). Adequate attention could not be provided to assess the
                        feasibility of the planning documents due to time constraints / pressure to
                        begin the project within envisaged time.
7. Lack of              A study on the NGO selection process identified key loopholes in the
   accountability at    project document (e.g. Request for Proposal) and NGO selection process
   different levels.    as a result of which 145 NGOs had been disqualified. Another 161 NGOs
                        which were questioned by the review on different grounds are being
                        reassessed as per GoB suggestions. It is evident that project personnel
                        had taken advantage of these loopholes and there had been considerable


                                              45

mismanagement and corruption due to which 30 percent of project funds
had been lost. This issue was seriously dealt with by the ministry but only
at the end of the project when studies by WB and SDC were able to
substantiate questions raised. Similar allegations had been raised during
previous phases (phase 1, 2) and WB was not able to investigate into these
as the complaints were anonymous. Eventually SDC had to initiate a study
to look into the matter. WB was able to take actions only based on SDC's
study findings. Now there is enough justification to show that some of the
allegations also must have been valid. The question remains that why were
these loopholes not identified during implementation or reported back by
duty bearers at the implementation level?
As many as two vehicles procured for the project were not handed over to
the project till closing date as they were being personally used by high
level officials (e.g. the Advisor to the Prime Minister, one of the previous
Secretary of MoPME etc.). This created a huge problem for the project as
it affected the work of the divisional teams at the field level. This problem
could not be addressed despite numerous audit objections on this issue and
it being raised in all the review missions. Assets procured by the NGOs
and supervised by the CMCs were improperly maintained as there were no
formal register of assets. Reconciliation of inventory was not made.
Implementing NGOs of phase 1 & 2 had handed over assets to the CMCs.
However, most assets were reported to be stolen as there was no system
for accountability in place. During implementation of phase 1 & 2, instead
of buying equipments (e.g. T.V, radio) for the CE centre, old equipments
from politically influential person's house were provided to the centres in
exchange of the new equipment or the allocated money. There were many
cases of petty theft, where 1 newspaper was supplied to the CE centres
instead of two, or one hurricane (lantern) instead of two but the project
was charged for 2. As the project was largely spread over the country, it
was not possible for the PD to look into such small issues at a vast scale.
But the fact remained that left unattended, these `small' issues added up to
large amounts misappropriated, as the project scale was large. These
problems were raised during divisional team's monthly monitoring
meetings and were sometimes addressed in an adhoc manner but no
systemic changes were made to prevent the scope for recurrence. During
phase 1 & 2, monitoring associates reported that in many cases, because
there was an honorarium involved, the TNOs / UNOs of the area would
show interest to provide training to trainers of implementing NGOs. As a
result the quality of performance of the trainers would suffer. Many master
trainers (of the implementing NGOs) left their job at this time as they felt
that they would be held responsible for the poor quality. As trainers
received unprofessional training, the quality of the training they provided
to facilitators was questionable and similarly, questionable was what the
learners learnt from such facilitators. This problem could not be addressed
as NGOs reported that it was not possible for them to work in the field
level without maintaining a congenial relationship with the TNO / UNO or
other such officials. In such a situation, the NGOs could not take risks by
refusing requests from GoB officials. Having master trainers were one of
the pre requisites of NGOs for selection, but in the cases where master
trainers left the job , instead of addressing the issue, the NGOs used
`proxy' master trainers (using relatives to sign necessary training related


                      46

                        documents in the guise of the master trainer), which amounted to forgery
                        and deception. When reported, the PD informed that the number of such
                        incidents were insignificant, though the MAs reported otherwise.
                        Nevertheless, the fact that this was happening, even if in a small scale, was
                        alarming. There was no standard process to steer/monitor the divisional
                        teams as a result quality of performance varied. The monthly meetings of
                        the Divisional Teams were very important as it was possible for the
                        divisional teams to raise problems they faced at the field levels. Some of
                        these were addressed during the meeting by the PD and steps were taken
                        accordingly but mostly on a temporary basis. Subsequent changes needed
                        to be made in to project documents to prevent recurrence, which did not
                        happen.
8. Challenges faced     The project aimed at the initiation to target TLM graduates. But there was
   due to constraint of nearly a two-year lapse in between the completion of TLM and the
   the target group     initiation of PLCE HD 1. The TLM has shown success in its initial stage
                        but could not hold on to its quality once it was scaled up. Due to this
                        reason, the impact of TLM raised concerns. On the other hand, the limited
                        numbers of learners who had genuinely benefited through the TLM had
                        relapsed into illiteracy due to the time lapse factor. Due to these reasons,
                        the strengthening, consolidation and furtherance of literacy under the
                        project was not possible. The majority (47.54 percent or nearly 50 percent)
                        of learners were between the age cohort of 11-20, an age group which are
                        considered as children & adolescents but the project was aimed for `adult'
                        learners and as such did not cater to the need of diverse age groups.
9. Quality of learning  The systematic improvement of the teaching learning technique of
   questionable.        facilitators needed to be improved and facilitators' attendance ensured.
                        The 3rd basic primer (Chetona 3) was designed for self use but was too
                        difficult for learners due to the learner's background. Adequate
                        instructions were not provided during the PL course. Scope to practice
                        literacy skills within the PL courses and at home were limited to usage of
                        the `Chetona'. Scope to practice literacy skills at home was not
                        systematized.
                        Supplementary reading materials were provided per centre but were
                        limited in numbers. Even for the CE courses, synopsis/handouts were not
                        provided to learners to study/use at home. The project aim was not only
                        skills training but to provide support to skills to learners. A critical
                        analysis of the tracer study's results show that levels of learning in the
                        areas of basic reading and writing skills remain low (only 30%), even after
                        participation in the learning program. Future learning programs, therefore,
                        should put more emphasis and time on the literacy component of the
                        learning program. The three months of literacy training under the current
                        program is insufficient to meaningfully improve the capacity of learners'
                        to read and write. Besides the time factor, established good practices
                        should be introduced to ensure the sustainability of literacy skills. There
                        needed to be bridges between the PL & CE courses. The project had not
                        developed competency levels/standards or indicators for the PL or CE
                        phases. Documents produced under the project were initially developed by
                        PIMU officials with the help of relevant reference documents but in the
                        absence of competency levels became general documents rather than
                        graded documents. For the same reason, monitoring indicators were
                        developed on a general basis rather than on specific standards. It was only


                                             47

                           till the end of 2005 that competency levels were developed. The MIS
                           developed was more quantitative rather than being qualitative. It did not
                           reflect the learning achievements of the learners nor identified the learning
                           constraints. A Tracer Study was conducted which yielded important
                           learning but as this was at hand only at the end of the project, it was not
                           possible to take necessary remedial measures.
10. Training courses       For the CE courses, options for learners were limited to mainly
    limited to             `traditional' courses, though need assessments had been conducted which
    `traditional' skills.  yielded a wide rage of options and demands (as many as 40 or more from
                           each divisions). The PD would at the end decide which kind of training
                           would be provided by the project. There were no specific guidelines in
                           regard to how such decisions should be made.
11. Sustainability of the  Sustainability of the CE centres and ownership of the communities was not
    project questionable.  ensured in the project design. The project promoted that the land for the
                           CE centres were to be purchased & funds were allocated accordingly. This
                           was done in some cases but later it was reported that enough land was not
                           available and therefore the decision was changed that land would be rented
                           for the project duration. This was a counter productive decision. The
                           project design promoted that the community will eventually take over the
                           ownership of the CE centres but there were no strategies in place on how
                           this was to be ensured. Strategies need to be developed for closer
                           collaboration between GoB authorities and NGOs / local communities. At
                           the CE stage the learners should had been `empowered' enough to seek out
                           linkage and network opportunities on their own. It was evident that the
                           empowerment aspect was not addressed adequately in the project design.
                           NGOs were responsible for the success of the linkage programme whereas
                           their role should have been limited as facilitators.




                                                48

Annex 2: Chronology of events leading to the development of the NFE Policy.

(Note: some events may have been missed as the chronology is prepared from existing
documentations)

NFE Vision / Policy      November 2001.
Workshop
National Non Formal      National NFE Policy to be developed by June 2004.
Education Policy
Framework: Initiated as
a component of the Post
Literacy and Continuing
Education (PLCE) for
Human Development
Project 1 (2001 ­ 2005)
under the S2 package.
National Task Force for  Formulated on 14th May 2003. Advisor to the PM as Chair and Secretary
NFE Policy Framework     MoPME Vice Chair, 17 members (GoB, NGOs etc.).
1st meeting on 23rd      NGOAB representative and PLCE 1 project S2 package consultants were
September 2003 with      included as members upon SDC's request. Decision to work closely with
National Task Force      stakeholders, including NGOs. Minutes circulated on 14.10.03
PLCE Special Review      Following up to MoPME's letter to SDC (27 June 2003) in response to SDC's
Mission : 6th , 7th      letter to MoPME (4 May and 11 June 2003) in regard to allegations against
October 2003             DNFE, MoPME confirmed abolishment of DNFE and shared concerns and
                         future plans. Informed about 3 committees looking into closure
                         responsibilities. Aide Memoir emphasizes on clear roles of the interim
                         arrangement, concern on the capacity of the DPE, need for ownership of GoB
                         and other stakeholders, meaningful consultation process, integration of lessons
                         learnt from the past.
GoB ­ DP meeting : 3rd   GoB clarification on the closure of DNFE. Continuation of PLCE 1, PLCE 2
December 2003            and NFE 3 projects under MoPME. DPs shared concern in regard to GoB's
                         `long term vision' and commitment for NFE, need for credible interim
                         arrangements for continuation of ongoing projects and the issue of ensuring
                         quality and sustainability of efforts. DPs proposed to establish a `Joint
                         Working Group' under the National Task Force for NFE. GoB ensured
                         commitment and expressed that DNFE was `abolished in order to modify and
                         establish it in a much more effective and integrated manner.' Proposal for
                         increased consultation among different stakeholders. Minutes were circulated
                         on 18.12.03.
11th January 2004        DPs letter (Chair, ELCG) requesting meeting with MoPME to learn about
                         planning process of the NFE Policy Framework and explore avenues to be
                         more actively involved
31st January 2004        MoPME's response to ADB informing about the formation of the PIST.
1st National Workshop    Discussion on the Framework, the Perspective Plan, Equivalency Strategy,
on the Development of    Advocacy and dissemination Plan. MoPME invites relevant DPs to join.
the National Framework   Concept papers reviewed and suggestions proposed through group discussions
for Non Formal           among relevant stakeholders.
Education (NFE)
9th February 2004
15th February 2004       PLCE 1 MTR. MoPME shares ToR of the PIST.



                                             49

15th February 2004      DPs (SDC as Alternate Chair, ELCG) letter to MoPME, as follow up of
                        December 2003 meeting, providing feedback on the meeting minutes and
                        specially emphasizing the need for a `Working Group'.
16th February 2004      ADB letter to MoPME. ADB informs about suspension of PLCE 2 till
                        satisfactory institutional arrangements established.
18th February 2004      DPs meeting with MoPME. Reemphasizing need for dialogue among
                        stakeholders, establishing a Working Group and identifying a `focal point' in
                        the National Task Force to function as DP's contact person. Joint Secretary
                        MoPME agreed to SDC proposal for conducting an assessment of the DNFE in
                        order to identify lessons for the future policy and implementation mechanism
                        for NFE.
2nd meeting of the      Review and finalize suggestions of the 1st National Workshop (9th February)
National Task Force for Review progress of the NFE Policy Framework under PLCE 1
NFE Policy Framework    Constitute a Working Group with Joint Secretary MoPME as Chair, 2 NGOs
                        and 2 DPs among others. DPs stressed that the Policy Framework should be
23rd February 2004      given adequate time to formulate. Minutes circulated on 15th March 2004.
1st April 2004          DPs letter (Chair, ELCG) to MoPME proposing James Jennings (UNICEF)
                        and Monica Malakar (SIDA) as ELCG representatives for the Working Group.
                        Reemphasizing on MoPME's suggestion to carry forward an assessment of
                        DNFE to identify lessons.
11 April 2004           Working Group meeting. Discussion on proposed institutional arrangement
                        and organogram. DPs could not be present due to Easter holiday.
3 May 2004              ADB letter To ERD informing about suspension of PLCE 2 project. Condition
                        for revival to depend upon the development of a comprehensive NFE strategy
                        through consultative process within August 2004.
9 ­ 10 May 2004         Workshop on National Framework for NFE. Review recommendations from 6
                        divisional workshops. Relevant DPs and Working Group members invited.
                        Concerns shared on need to take into consideration lessons of the past.
23 May 2004             DPs letter (Chair, ELCG) to MoPME. Upon request of MoPME, DfID and
                        UNICEF to provide financial support for DNFE assessment. ToR for the
                        study prepared collectively by GoB & DP (NFE Working Group members).
30 May 2004             Working Group meeting.
9 ­ 10 June 2004        National Workshop to share proposals on the NFE Policy Framework and
                        organogram.
30 June 2004            Consultants under the S 2 package of PLCE 1 could not continue work due to
                        completion of their contract but their work to develop the NFE had not yet
                        started due to delays in the PLCE 1 project. Under this circumstance, GoB and
                        DPs requested SDC to provide additional funds for this task. Accordingly, 3
                        consultants (Dr. Manzoor Ahmed, Dr. Shiva Raj Lohani & Mr. N.I. Khan)
                        were assigned from July to October to assist MoPME to finalize the NFE
                        Policy Framework. SDC provided the additional financial support.

11 July 2004            Working Group meeting. Draft shared and reviewed.
15 July 2004            Assessment of DNFE completed and 15 copies of the report sent to MoPME
                        (letter of SDC as Alternate Chair, ELCG).
18 July 2004            Working Group meeting. To discuss the DNFE assessment and draft NFE
                        Policy Framework. Meeting not held. 15 copies of the report on National
                        Policy Framework for Comprehensive NFE Education' sent to MoPME (letter
                        of SDC as Alternate Chair, ELCG) .
21 July 2004            Stakeholders Workshop on the National NFE Policy Framework to



                                              50

                     disseminate the Assessment of DNFE and the draft NFE policy Framework.
                     SDC, as Alternate Chair, represented DPs. Feedback integrated and shared on
                     11th August 2004.
26 July              GOB responses to ADB and DPs re NFE Policy framework.
29 July 2004         DPs meeting with MoPME. Discussion on the draft response of MoPME to
                     ADB. MoPME shares draft National Framework for NFE. Discussion on the
                     next steps. MoPME agrees to the policy principles and to work towards
                     developing a common stand. Advisor to the Prime Minister agrees to provide
                     GoB endorsement of the two reports. Minutes circulated on 1st August 2004.
19 ­ 20 August 2004  PLCE 1 Review Mission
26 August 2004       DPs letter (SDC as Alternate Chair, ELCG) to MoPME requesting copy of the
                     final report along with the letter of endorsement from GoB. Informing about
                     consultant team to assist MoPME.
28 August 2004       Draft final version (integrating feedback from 21st July workshop) circulated to
                     MoPME and DPs (via email). DPs provide feedback.
31 August 2004       ADB letter to ERD expressing satisfaction at the consultative process to
                     develop the Policy Framework and agreeing to MoPME's proposal to review
                     progress in mid October. ADB mission to arrive then.
September 2004       Revised National Policy Framework and Institutional Structure for NFE
5th September 2004   DPs meeting with MoPME. Discuss next steps. DPs requested to provide
                     feedback on documents.
11 September 2004    DPs meeting with MoPME. DP representatives on Working Group's letter to
                     MoPME re feedback on revised version.
27 September 2004    Working Group meeting. MoPME shared revised documents and gave a
                     presentation on the outline of the policy and NFE structure. Draft Report
                     accepted by MoPME. MoPME to incorporate feedback of discussion and send
                     final report to DP and to PM's office.
October 2004         MoPME revises draft Report and sends to DPs for feedback.
12 October 2004      DPs letter (Chair, NFE Task Force of the ELCG) providing feedback on the
                     revised report and requesting MoPME to maintain agreements of 27th
                     September meeting.
17 October 2004      Task Force on National NFE Policy Framework meeting. Minutes circulated
                     on 26.10.04. Consultants to assist MoPME to prepare paper to justify higher
                     salary structure. MoPME decides to arrange inter-ministerial meeting to
                     discuss on Salary Structure.
17- 28 October 2004  ADB Review Mission of PLCE 2 project.
22 October 2004      WB ­ SDC letter supporting ELCG's 12th October letter.
December 2005        1st NFE Policy draft shared with DPs.
27th December 2005   MoPME submits NFE Policy for Approval
January 2006         NFE Policy approved by GoB
9th February 2006    Gazette notification of the GoB on the NFE Policy




                                         51

                                          Annex 9
                               List of Supporting Documents

Bank Documents
   1. Project Appraisal Document: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human
       Development Project, dated January 25, 2001 (Report No, 20914-BD).
   2. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3467-BD, dated March 15, 2001.
   3. Draft Technical Papers, prepared by Preparation Mission, October 23-November 4,
       1999: Washington, D.C., November 23, 1999.
   4. Country Assistance Strategy for the People's Republic of Bangladesh, Fy06-09, Report
       No. 35193.
   5. Unofficial report on the review of 161 disputed NGOs identified by the Three Member
       GOB Review Committee (no date).

Government Documents
   1. Unlocking the Potential National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction, Dhaka,
       2005.
   2. Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME), Bureau of Non-Formal Education
       (BNFE), Second Performance Audit, August 2007.
   3. __________________________________________ Report on First Tracer Study of
       PLCEHD-1 Project: An Impact Assessment, August 2005.
   4. _________________________________________ 2nd Tracer Study: Final Report, 31
       December 2007.
   5. _________________________________________ Review Committee Report on NGO
       Selection under Post Literacy and Continuing Education for Human Development
       Project -1, Dhaka, October 2005.
   6. __________________________________________ NFE Management in Bangladesh:
       Strengths, Weaknesses, Lessons Learned and Future Directions, prepared by Manzoor
       Ahmed and Shiva R. Lohani, Dhaka, July 2004.
   7. Ministry of Planning, Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED),
       Project Completion Report of Post-Literacy and Continuing Education for Human
       Development Project 1, (undated; received by ICR mission on February 26, 2008).

Other Documents
   1. Association of Canadian Community Colleges, Canada, in association with Association
       for Non-Traditional Education in the Philippines (ANTEP), Philippines, and House of
       Consultants Limited, Bangladesh:
   (a) Capacity Strengthening Consultancy Services Interim Progress Report: Third Status
       Report, March 28, 2005.
   (b) PLCEHD-1 Project: Key Performance Indicators, Assumptions & Achievements
       (October 2005).
   (c) Capacity Strengthening Consultancy Services Draft Final Report, March 15, 2006.
       Updates on PLCEHD Project-1 for IDA Supervision Mission, May 9-17, 2007, May 2007.




                                             52

