FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 244a-IN
APPRAISAL OF
A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
INDIA
December 6, 1973
Asia Projects Department
| This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS-
Currency Unit       =  Indian Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00             =  Paise 100
US$1.00              =  Rs 7.45
Rs 1.00             =  US$0.13
Rs 1,000,000        =  US$134,228
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      US Unit
1 Ton               =  1.102 Short Tons
1 Km                =  0.621 Mile
1 Ton-Km            =  0.684 Short Ton-Mile
1 Pass-Km           =  0.621 Pass-Mile
1 Meter             =  3.281 Feet
GLOSSARY OF ABBEVIATIONS
BG        -  Broad Gauge (1.676 m)
DF        - Development Fund
DRF       -  Depreciation Reserve Fund
EMW       -  Electric Multiple Unit
IR        -  Indian Railways
MG        -  Meter Gauge (1.000 m)
NG        -  Narrow Gauge (0.762 m and 0.610 m)
PF        -  Pension Fund
RDSO      -  Research Design and Standards Organization
(of Indian Railways)
RRF       -  Revenue Reserve Fund
Fourth
Plan    -  Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Fifth
Plan    -  Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
GOVERNIENT OF INDIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/1   Based on Exchange Rate on July 12, 1973.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................                             i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ........               ................................                1
II.  BACKGROUND                .................................                              2
A.     Economic Setting  ......              .........................               2
B.   The Transport Sector ..................                                         3
C.     Transport  Policy  and Planning  .... .......... .                            4
III.    THE  INDIAN  RAILWAYS  .........            ........................                   5
A.     Organization,  Management  and  Staff  .                   ............       5
B.    Accounts,  Costing and Audit  ....................                             7
C.  Rates and Fares ....................,                                            8
D.    Property  .......................................                              9
E.    Manufacturing  Units  ............................                            10
F.    Operating Performance  ..........................                             11
G.     Performance  Under Previous  Credits  ....                   .........       11
H.     Railway Planning  ...............................                            12
IV.     THE  PLAN AND THE  PROJECT  ............................                            13
A.     The  Five-Year  Plans  ............            ..      ..............        13
B.     The  Project  ....................................                           14
C.     Financing of  the Project  ..........              ..     ...........        16
D.     Execution of  the Project,  Procurement  and
Disbursements  ..............            ..      ................         16
V.     FINANCES  AND EARNINGS  ...............................                             17
A.     Introduction  ...................................                            17
B.     Past Performance  ...............................                            18
C.     Financing  Plan  .................................                           19
D.     Forecast Performance  ...........................                            21
VI.     ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...... ............                     ................        22
A.     The Project  and  the Fifth  Plan  1974/75-1978/79  .                        22
B.    Traffic  .            .......................................                 24
This report was written by Messrs. 0. Rahkonen, J. Ratter and J. Spencer.



-2-
Page No.
C.   Cost-Reducing Investments .......................    25
D.   Capacity-Increasing Investments .26
E. Overall Evaluation .26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    .        .27
ANNEXES
1.   Data on Trai,sport Sector
2.   Details on Traffic Forecasts
3.   Transport Policy Review
4.   Indian Railways 15-Year Corporate Plan - Summary of Contents
5.   Financial Arrangements between Indian Railways and the Government
6.   Summary of' Criticisms and Recommendations Made on Accounting
Matters
7.   IR Project Evaluation Procedures
8.   Principal Items Included in the Project
9.   Description of Materials and Components to be Procured
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.   Economic Evaluation
TABLES
1.   Allocation of Public Investments by Modes of Transport
2.   Operating Performance Averages
3.   Investments During Fourth Five-Year Plan
4.   Investment Program 1973/74 and for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
5.   Revenue and Expenditure Accounts - 1967/68 - 1972/73
6.   Balance Sheet March 31, 1973 (Provisional Figures)
Notes on Table 6
7.   Source and Application of Funds - 1973/74 - 1978/79
8.   Foreign Exchange Requirements During the Two Years 1973/74 - 1974/75
9.   Revenue and Expenditure Forecast - Years 1973/74 - 1978/79
Notes on Table 9
10.   Forecast Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1974-1979
11.   Freight Traffic, Tons and Ton-Km
12.   Passenger Traffic 1965/66 - 1972/73
13.   Freight Traffic (Actuals and Forecast) 1969/70 - 1978/79
13a.   Freight Revenue Forecast 1973/74-1978/79
14.   Projections of IR Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic 1969-70 - 1978/79
15.   Comparison of Suburban and Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic of IR
16.   Composition of IR's Fifth Plan Investment Program by Cost-
Reducing and Capacity-Increasing Investments
17.   Results of Economic Evaluation
CHART
Indian Railways Organization Chart
MAP
IBRD 2593 RI



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The development plans of the Government of India for the next five
years imply increased demands on the transport sector and, in particular,
on Indian Railways. An increase of about 30% in rail freight traffic is
considered likely to meet the essential demands of industry and agriculture.
While plans are being prepared for increased use of other modes, rail transport
will remain vital to the economic development of India, for long-distance
haulage of bulk traffic. It is planned to increase road services from rail-
heads to relieve the railways of short-haul distributary services, and to
introduce pipelines and coastal shipping alternatives to rail haulage where
profitable to do so.
ii.       In recognition of the importance of establishing a long-term
policy for planning and management of the transport sector, it was agreed,
during the negotiations of the Eleventh Railway Credit (280-IN), that the
Government would, by the end of 1973, complete a transport policy review.
Agreement was also reached that IR would, at the same time, prepare an
initial version of a 15-year Corporate Plan which would establish the
long-term objectives and investment priorities of IR. These two undertakings
by the Government and IR were to lead to an understanding between the Govern-
ment and the Association on the policies to be followed as a basis for
future Bank Group activity in the transport sector.
iii.      The Government has substantially met the requirements under
these two undertakings. The transport policy review was completed by
the time of negotiations and satisfactory progress has been made in
preparation of IR's Corporate Plan, the initial version of which will
be ready by December 1973. The understanding to be reached between the
Government and the Association on the policies to be followed as a basis
for future Bank Group activity in the transport sector will be established
during 1974 after review by the Association of the documents prepared by
the Government. A timetable and plan of action was agreed during the
negotiations for the steps to be taken leading to such an understanding not
later than October 1974.
iv.       The proposed credit is needed in January 1974 because of an
increase in the rate of investment following the mid-term appraisal of the
Fourth Plan and the effect of the recent currency realignment which will
exhaust Credit 280-IN by December 1973. The project is the investment
program to be partly financed by the proceeds of the proposed credit and
covers a period of fiteen months from January 1, 1974, to March 31, 1975.
The total expenditure for this period will amount to US$654 million equiv-
alent with a foreign exchange component of US$97 million equivalent. The
Association's contribution to this foreign exchange requirement under the
proposed credit would be US$80 million. The balance would be financed by



- ii -
bilateral arrangements. About 75% of foreign expenditure is required for
the procurement of components and materials for use in the manufacture and
maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock. The remainder is required
for equipment and materials necessary for track works including electrifica-
tion, signalling and communications.
VI        Completion of this program will enable IR to carry out its planned
production of locomotives and rolling stock and to continue with track
renewal works, electrification, line capacity and other works which are
already in progress.
vi.       Although the Fifth Five-Year Plan is still under preparation,
a-reement has been reached between IR and the Planning Commission that IR
should base its plans on an increase in freight tonnage from 208 million
expected in 1973/74 to 280 million in 1978/79 and an average annual increase
in passenger traffic of 4%. Aside from increasing freight and passenger
capacity, the Fifth Plan's objective is to improve efficiency and reduce
cost through modernization of equipment and operational improvement. Since
a large part of the investment under IR's Fifth Plan will be made in numerous
on-going works, the economic evaluation in the appraisal has been carried
out for the project as a whole, from which it is shown that the overall
rate of return during the project period based on cost-reducing and capacity-
increasing investments will be around 13%.
vii.      IR's operation has been affected by factors such as the Indo-
Pakistan War and its aftermath, civil disturbances, strikes of railway
workers and more recently by the serious shortage of electric power in the
country. Furthermore, the unexpectedly low overall economic growth in the
economy has also been reflected in the performance of the transport sector
which has been called upon to carry a considerably lower tonnage than
estimated in the preparation of the Fourth Plan. Taking into account these
unfavorable factors, IR's operating performance has been satisfactory.
viii.     During the last two years, IR's net revenue from operations
showed a marked improvement compared to the preceding years. This improve-
ment, combined with the dividend relief granted by the Government to IR,
enabled IR to generate a net surplus after paying the dividend due to
the Government. In October 1973 the Pay Commission's recommendations for
increases in wages were approved by the Government and will cost IR about
Rs 1,000 million a year. Action by the Government and IR to offset this
substantial increase, including tariff increases, will be taken over a
period of three years. The earnings covenant requires IR to earn sufficient
net revenue to meet the dividend due to the Government, but it has been
agreed that the full requirement of the covenant for 1974/75 and 1975/76
will be waived in such a way that IR will be required to meet 70% and
approximately 85%, respectively, of the dividend payment for those years.
ix.       IDA-financed items will be procured under international competitive
bidding except for about US$16.0 million 20% of the total credit) which
would be used to purchase special standard components and equipment required
in the manufacture of diesel and electric locomotives and for replacements



- iii -
during maintenance. Under the previous credit, US$17 million (23% of the
total credit) had been excluded from international competitive bidding for
this purpose.
x.        The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$80 million to the Government of India.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India and Indian Railways (IR) have asked IDA
for a credit of US$80 million equivalent to assist in financing the completion
of the Fourth Five-Year Plan by March 31, 1974, and the first year of the
Fifth Five-Year Plan. The credit would contribute to IR's foreign exchange
requirements over a 15-month period from January 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975.
This request arises from the fact that the present Credit 280-IN will be
exhausted by about December 1973, three months earlier than expected, due to
an i.ncrease in the rate of investment following the mid-term review of the
Fourth Plan and the effects of recent price increases and currency realign-
ments, The credit is required for the procurement of equipment, material
and components essential to the manufacture of locomotives and roLling stock
and to the completion of electrification and other track works already in
hancd. The Government has substantially met the requirements under CrediL 280-IN
to prepare a transport policy review and an initial version of IR's Corporate
Plan by the end of 1973. The policy review was completed by the time of
negotiations and the initial version of the Corporate Plan will be available
December 31, 1973.  Although a framework for future Bank Group activity will
not be established prior to October 1974, sufficient progress has been made
in transport coordination and railway planning to justify support for the
present project.
1.02      The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978/79) will call for the
supply of locomotives and rolling stock at a rate close to the present
maximum productive capacity of IR and private manufacturers in India. It is
also clear that work upon which IR is already engaged, in track and bridge
renewals, electrification, and other works intended to incr.ease capacity
and reduce costs, should continue without delay. The Fifth Five-Y'ear Plan
is being prepared by the Planning Commission of the Government, and IR
is working out the full details of the Railway Five-Year Plan accordingly.
1.03      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made six loans and five credits
for IR, a gross total of US$706 million equivalent; this is the bank Group's
largest participation in any single enterprise. The first ten lending
operations have been satisfactorily completed and have together enabled iR
to carry more than three times the freight and more than twice the passenger
traffic handled in 1951, with an operating ratio varying between 74.7% and
84.7% over the whole period. The last credit (280-IN) was made in 1972 for
US$75 million equivalent; funds are expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1973, three months earlier than originally scheduled.
1.04      Other Bank Group lending for transportation in India comprises
three loans and one credit for the ports of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay
(a total of US$82 million equivalent), one credit for roads (US$60 million
equivalent), one loan for civil aviation (US$5.6 million equivalent), and



one credit for shipping (US$83 million equivalent). Also, IDA financed
the purchase of commercial vehicle components as part of the eight Indus-
trial Imports credits made between 1964 and 1973.
1.05      This appraisal is based on information supplied by the Government
of India and IR and on tne findings of a Bank mission in May/June 1973
comprising Messrs. Rahkonen (economist), Ratter (engineer) and Spencer
(financial analyst).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      On the basis of the latest Bank economic report on India 1/ the
average annual growth in GNP at constant prices may be estimated at 3.0%
during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1968/69 - 1973/74). This compares with
real growth rates of 3.3% in the early 1960's and 4.7% during the later
years of the decade.  With an average annual population growth of 2.25%
during thie 1960's the per capita income increased at an average annual rate
of 1.3% and was estimated at US$110 equivalent in 1970. The Fourth Plan
targets assumed a real growth in GNP of 5.5% p.a. and in per capita income
of about 3% p.a. The economic report 1/ gives reasons for differences in
expected and actual economic growth.
2.02      This unexpectedly low overall economic growth has also been
reflected in the performance of the transport sector which has been called
upon to carry a considerably lower tonnage than estimated in preparation
of the Fourth Plan (Annex 1). At the time of approval of the Plan it was
estimated that IR would carry 265 million tons of goods in the last year
of the Fourth Plan 1973/74.  This estimate was revised to 240 million tons
during the mid-term appraisal of the Fourth Plan in 1971; the actual figure
will be about 208 million tons. In spite of this shortfall in tonnage, rail
transport in terms of ton-km has increased during the Fourth Plan from
128 billion in 1969/70 to 142 billion expected in 1973/74 because of
increases in average transport distances.
2.03      The Government is in the process of completing the preparation
of the Fifth Five-Year Plan 1974/75 - 1978/79, which like the previous one
is based on a real growth in GNP of 5.5% p.a. The main objectives of the
Fifth Plan are: the acceleration of economic growth; the redistribution of
consumption in order to raise the standard of living of the poorest 30%
of the population to an acceptable minimum level; and a reduction of India's
dependence on net inflows of foreign assistance.  In addition to these
objectives, the increasing problems of availability of energy and its cost
will be important factors to be taken into account.
1/   Economic Situation and Prospects of India, tay 8, 1973, Report No. 156-IN.



-3-
2.04      An Inter-Ministerial Working Group was appointed in 1972 to esti-
mate the total tonnage to be carried by the end of the Fifth Plan period
in 1978/79 on the basis of the various sectoral plans and targets. This
Group arrived at an estimate of 335 to 350 million tons for the railways
(Amaex 2). IR considers 280 million tons to be a more realistic target and
the Planning Commission has approved this as an indicative estimate for
purposes of railway planning; the Commission considers the estimate of the
Working Group to be too high in view of limited public resources available
to execute the Fifth Plan. If the higher target were to be achieved the
resources presently allocated to IR's investment program would need to be
increased by about 40%.
B. The Transport Sector
2005      The railways have, since their inception, represented India's
main mode of motorized transport; however, in rural areas, with about
80% of the total population, the traditional means of transport -- provided
mainly by animal-drawn vehicles -- still dominates although few statistics
of traffic volume are available.  The railways retained their relative
position more or less unchanged up to the beginning of the 1950's. At
that: time their share of motorized land transport was estimated at 90% of
total ton-km and 75% of total pass-km.  During the period 1950/51 - 1970/71
motorized freight and passenger transport increased annually by 7.0% and
4.9%, respectively, while the railways' share was reduced to 63% of total
freight and to 50% of total passenger traffic, with a corresponding increase
in the sihare of road transport.  This change in the relative positions of
the two main modes of motorized transport is a result of several factors
all of which have tended to increase the share of road transport which has
inherent economic advantages in carrying certain classes of traffic parti-
cularly over short and medium distances.  Steps are being planned to
increase road services from railheads to relieve the railways of short-haul
distributary services and to introduce pipelines and coastal shipping
alternatives to rail haulage where profitable to do so.  Ra4lways, however,
conitinue to be the main carrier of passenger and bulk traffic over longer
distances. Composition and development of railway traffic, is summarized
in paras 6.04 -- 6.06 and Annex 2.
2.06      Compared with railways and highway transport, the other modes of
transport are at present of minor importance:  coastal shipping and pipe-
line.s each carry about 3% of the total freight traffic in terms of ton-km;
air transport carries about 1% of total pass-km  (Annex 1).  There is,
however, scope for considerable expansion of these modes because of the
size of the country, its geographical features, and the expected rapid growth
in transport for which they have an inherent advantage.  Increased attention
is being given to their development. Further details on the transport sector
in India are given in Annex 1.



- 4 -
C. Transport Policy and Planning
2.07      At present, transport planning by the Ministries of Railways,
Shipping and Transpor- arnd Tourism and Civil Aviation is loosely coordinated
by tne Planning Commission whose functions, however, cover much more than
the transport sector itself and relate primarily to setting performance
targets for the whole economy. Some coordination through control of
investment levels is also exercised by the Planning and Finance Ministries.
Generally, there is, however, scope for improved coordination. Furthermore,
licensing and pricing policies have not been designed or implemented to
result in the most economic distribution of traffic among the various modes
of transport. Steps are however being taken to improve this situation
(para 2.10) and have to some extent already been adopted in preparation of
the Fifth Plan (para 6.06).
2.08      The development of sectoral policy and planning 4S undoubtedly
made difficult by India's federal structure. However, the Central Government
has exclusive control over railways and aviation and a predominant influence
in ports and shipping. Even road transport can be strongly influenced by
the Central Government through its financing of national highway construction
and maintenance, its statutory authority over interstate vehicle movements
and its control over vehicle manufacture. The Government has, therefore,
at its disposal powers to coordinate the transport sector in an efficient
manner.  However, in practice there are severe financial, political, social
and administrative constraints on the use of these powers.
2.09      During recent years in discussions with the Government of
India on transport policy and planning, the Association has stressed
the importance of establishing a long-term policy for the planning and
management of the transport sector as a whole as well as the need for
careful planning of each individual mode within the context of the overall
policies and plans. In recognition of these needs, it was agreed during
the negotiations for the Eleventh Railway Credit (280-IN) that the Govenl-
ment would, by the latter part of 1973, complete a review of the transport
sector, with an emphasis on better coordination and effective institutions
to achieve policy objectives. It was further agreed that the IR would, by
the end of 1973, prepare an initial version of a long-term Corporate Plan
which would cover a 15-year period 1974/75 - 1988189 and establish the
long-term objectives and investment priorities of IR. The transport sector
policy review and the IR Corporate Plan should facilitate the reaching of
an understanding between the Government and the Association on the policies
to be followed as a basis for future Bank Group activity in the transport
sector.
2.10      The various studies carried out as part of the transport policy
review are listed in Annex 3; the IR Corporate Plan is discussed in
paras 3.26 and 3.27. Although there was some delay in completion of the
policy review, it clarifies<: several issues within the transport sector
and its interim findings have been used in establishing the allocation of



-5-
resources in the Fifth Plan. The review will form a basis for further
discussions between the Government and the Association -- which are expected
to take place during the first quarter of calendar year 1974 and there may
be a considerable amount of work in the form of a transport review mission
scheduled at the same time. As a result of these discussions it is expected
that a framework for future Bank Group participation in the transport sector
can be established by the end of 1974. This would mean that the results of
the review and of IR's first Corporate Plan should be available before any
further credit for IR is considered (para 2.09). During negotiations, a
timetable and plan of action was drawn up for the steps to be taken leading
to t:he establishment in 1974 of a framework for future Bank Group participation
in the transport sector.
2.11      The planned public outlays in the transport sector (including
about Rs 11.0 billion for communications) amount to Rs 66.5 billion in the
draft Fifth Five-Year Plan. This represents 18.8% of the total Fifth Plan
outlays and compares with 20.4% estimated for the Fourth Plan and with
23.6% actually spent during the first three Plan periods. The minor de-
crease in the relative share is due to a considerable increase in planned
outlays for power generation, housing, education and social programs.
Provisionally, Rs 23.8 billion has been allocated for IR's Fifth Plan -
which represents 6.7% of the total Plan outlay and 43.4% of the planned
transport sector outlay. In the Fourth Plan, with Rs 14.2 billion allocated
for railways, the corresponding percentages were 8.4% and 48.1%.   In addi-
tion, a major increase to Rs 6.0 billion in investment in metropolitan area
transport systems is planned, reflecting an increased concern by the Govern-
ment for problems within these areas. Table 1 gives the allocation of the
transport sector outlays in the Fourth and Fifth Plans by modes of transport.
Annex 1 gives further details on the actual development of each mode as
compared with the Plan.
IT. THE INDIAN RAILWAYS
A. Organization, Management and Staff
3.01      The task of the IR Board is immense by any standard of comparison.
Indian Railways is the second largest railway system under one management
in the world. It has 60,000 route-kms, employs 1.7 million people and has
annual gross revenues of about US$1.6 billion equivalent. There are nine
Zonal Railways each of which is under the control of a General Manager,
and each is a large system on its own account. IR also has three modern
workshops engaged in continuous manufacture of locomotives and rolling
stock. Although there has been a steady growth in management problems and
responsibilities, there has been no major change in organization of the
Board. for many years (see Chart). It consists of a Chairman, Financial
Commissioner and three functional members, assisted by five "additional
members." Reporting to the Board are thirteen general managers, the
Director General of Research, and some 20 functional directors.



-6-
3.02      The most important change in headquarters organization in
recent times has been the establishment of the Corporate Planning Cell
at Headquarters. The new Director of Planning is well qualified, combining
experience in railway operation and engineering with technical research.
Corporate planning teams have also been created in each of the Zonal
Railways, to coordinate departmental planning within the framework set by
the central planning cell. The first outline for the preparation of the
Corporate Plan, as drafted by the Planning Cell, is set out in Annex 4.
The quality of senior staff at Headquarters and in the Zonal Railways is
high and their professional knowledge of management techniques and modern
railway technology is excellent.
3.03      The problems of the Railway Board are likely to increase more
rapidly in the future, in line with the growth of India's economy and
population and their repercussions on transport and employment. The
intensification of planning work in all transport fields will also place
an increasing load on Board members in the formulation of new policies
and their execution. Since his appointment in October 1973, the new
chairman has reorganized the functions of Board members to make them more
effective and to reduce time spent in routine activities. The chairman
has assumed special responsibility for Corporate Planning. Other members
and additional members of the Board will chair working groups of senior
staff dealing with other specific functions and activities. These arrange-
ments should resul in increasing the effectiveness of the Board members.
Staff
3.04      The total number of employees of IR is slowly increasing and now
amounts to about 1.7 million. Of these, only about 1.2 million are directly
employed on railway operation and maintenance.  The remaining half million
are employed as police (57,000), medical (50,000), rolling stock manufacture
(32,000), colony maintenance (40,000), and casual workers (321,000). The
average wage per employee in 1972 was about Rs 3,600 per annum and an average
of Rs 207 per employee was spent on staff welfare. There has been a steady
improvement in the overall productivity of staff as measured by the relation-
ship between traffic hauled and the number employed on operations. Traffic
units 1/ per employee in 1970/71 and 1971/72 were 186,000 and 193,000,
respectlvely, and the provisional figura for 1972/73 is 201,000. These
figures compare favorably with those of other railways. The total labor
cost absorbs 57% of total operating expenses and labor cost per unit of
traffic is comparatively low. IR has recently initiated a new approach to
labor relations by the establishment of a "Corporate Enterprise Group" of
management and labor, which consists of the Railway Board and representatives
of the two railway labor federations. Its objectives are to discuss and seek
a common understanding on all matters affecting the development of the Rail-
ways toward greater efficiency, including the use of modern technology and
mechanized equipment and its effect on employment and training. In the
1/   Traffic units = pass km + ton-km.



- 7 -
condlitions existing in India, facing rapid population growth, a special
balance must be observed between the use of manpower and of machinery, and
IR's approach to solving this problem is realistic.
B. Accounts, Costing and Audit
3.05      Accounting procedures of IR, financial arrangements with the
Government and audit procedures have not changed since the appraisal
report on the Eleventh Railway Credit was prepared. The arrangements are
summarized in Annex 5. Many of the procedures, particularly those relating
to the accounting treatment of fixed assets, depreciation and renewals
are out of date; depreciation charges are not related to losses through usage
of assets or effluxion of time; and assets are shown neither at historical
nor at replacement cost. These shortcomings were recognized in the First
Repcort of the Railway Convention Committee 1971, published in December 1972.
A brief summary of the Committee's criticisms and recommendations appear in
Annex 6. The principal criticisms were the need for:
(a) reform in calculating depreciation, the possible need
for a Renewals Reserve to provide for the increased
cost of replacement of assets and the presentation of
figures showing the value of total assets and deprecia-
tion;
(b) a study to examine the possible over-capitalization of
the Railways;
(c) a review of the method of presentation of budget documents
with a view to rationalizing their contents; and
(d)  a further refinement of accounting procedures generally.
3.06      Most of the Committee's criticisms have their origin in a
report prepared in January 1970 by consultants Davies & Robson (UK) for the
IR at the request of the Association. Four study groups have already been
appointed by IR, to report on the matters raised by the Committee. It
should not be difficult for the study groups to recommend reforms in
presentation of budget documents, annual reports, and related statistics,
but the more detailed work of accomplishing major reform in accounting and
other management information procedures is an enormous task. In carrying
it out the Board intends that their own study group should make the initial
review and proposals. After this has been done they would then consider
the appointment of consultants to review the proposals and make recommendations.
3.07      The arrangements outlined in the preceding paragraph are satis-
factory as a first step in responding to the Committee's criticisms. During
negotiations IR advised the Association that the study groups will continue
with their work for a further year with the object of responding to the
recommendations of the Convention Committee and to bring about appropriate



improvements, The study groups will report directly to the Financial Com-
missioner, Railway Board, and it is expected that presentation of budget
documents in 1975 and accounts for 1974/75 will be improved following the
work now beeing undertaken. It is possible that IR may require consultant
assistance in achieving these reforms, and the proposed credit makes
provision for the cost of such services.
'3,03     Following recommendations made in the Davies & Robson report
(para 3.06), IR has made progress in freight traffic costing. Cells have
been established in each zonal railway and costs of moving the various
classes of freight traffic on each zone are now available. Work is
proceeding on establishing similar costs for each division. Each zonal
railway has fulL and direct cost figures for haulage according to the nature
of traffic and loadability, and these are used as a basis for quoting
special rates. Each zone has full authority to quote these rates.
3,09      The Costing Cells are now working on an analysis of passenger
traffic costs in order to identify costs and revenues related to particular
services and classes of traffic. The Convention Committee drew attention
in their Report to the need for such figures, and IR has undertaken to
complete this work by June 1974. In negotiating Credit 280-IN, IR confirmed
that it would continue its efforts to improve costing information and its
application, along with other relevant factors, to rating policy. The
progress so far made is satisfactory and recently a new post has been
created in the Board HQ for a Deputy Director of Costing Analysis.
C. Rates and Fares
3.10      The level of rates and fares is low, average receipt per pass-km
and ton-km being Paise 2.6 (US4O.3) and Paise 6.00 (US40.8), respectively.
Tariffs are common throughout the system so that the broad gauge (BG) which
carries about 84% of total freight traffic subsidizes the more costly
operation of the meter (MG) and narrow gauge (NG) lines. Furthermore, freight
rates on certain commodities, mainly for coal and those which directly affect
t he general cost of living such as foodgrains, are very low indeed. The range
of freight rates at a representative distance of 600 km varies from a low
of Paise 4.1 (US40.5) per ton-km for foodgrains to Paise 13.9 (US41.9)
per ton-km for petroleum products. Over the past twenty years rates and
fares have increased at a much slower rate than prices generally.
3.11      A broad analysis of figures for the year 1971/72 shows tlhat net
revenue from non-suburban traffic amounted to about Rs 83 million while
suburban traffic incurred a loss of about Rs 35 million. Thus, net earnings
from passenger traffic as a whole contributed only Rs 48 million towards
the dividend payable to the Government, of which the portion attributable to
passenger services was estinmated by !R at Rs 510 million.
3.12      The general level of rates and fares as well as their structure
reflects the Government's policy of subsidizing traffic which is essential
to the economy or related to the needs of the poorest part of the population.



- 9 -
Although these policieas are understandable from the national viewpoint, the
manner in which they are implemented may result in distortions in traffic
distribution between various modes of transport (para 2.07) and therefore
work against efforts to promote economic growth. It is expected that the
improved traffic costing procedures (paras 3.08-3.09) and the review of the
transport sector (para 2.10) including pricing policies to be undertaken in
1974 will result in a gradual improvement in identification and correction
of price distortions.
D. Property
3.13      Track and Bridges.  IR operates over 60,000 route-km of which
about 80% is single-line. Broad gauge track constitutes about half of the
sytstem and carries 72% of passenger traffic and 84% of freight. About
4,000 km of main routes are now electrified. Track renewals on the most
important lines carrying dense traffic are being associated with improve-
menits to reduce maintenance costs and permit higher speeds and heavier axle
loads. There are about 9,000 major bridges on the track system. In view
of their age, and the need to prepare for heavier axle loads in the future,
IR has set up a special organization to prepare a program for renewal and
strengthening, which will be included in the Corporate Plan.
3.114     Locomotives. Taking into account current construction, by
March 1974 the locomotive fleet of IR will contain 1,668 diesel, 738 electric
and about 9,000 steam locomotives. About 1,500 steam locomotives are over
40 years old, most of which are used in shunting and other light-duty opera-
tiorns.  The potential economies to be obtained by elimination of steam
traction, together with the maintenance facilities and coal distribution that
supports it, are substantial. One of the main objectives of the Corporate
Plan (para 2.09) is to determine the optimum rate of substitution of steam
by diesel and electric traction, and the manufacturing resources required to
bring it about.  This determination will be complex and must take account
of the results of the current examination of the energy sector.
3.15      Passenger Cars. The present fleet of passenger cars is:
Coaches - about 26,000 (27,050 by March 1974);
Electric Multiple Unit Cars - about 2,000 (2,080 by
March 1974).
The present fleet is inadequate to cover the growing needs of passenger
traffic, and severe overcrowding is occurring in many maini-ne and suburban
services. Despite tnis, the availabilit.y of coaches is kept at a satisfac-
tory level of 87.5% in service. IR is designing new types of coaches to
provide increased passenger capacity, including "double decker" cars for
medium-distance mainline travel.
3.16      Wagons. By March 1974 the wagon fleet of IR will consist of
519,350 wagons (as measured in 4-wheel units). About 7% are over 40 years



- 10 -
old. Nevertheless, maintenance is good, and 95.7% are available in serv-
ice. Wagon design presents many problems for the future, as IR is in the
process of adopting automatic wagon-coupling and air-braking systems. In
the long term this will greatly increase operating efficiency but during
the period of transition wagons have to be segregated in operation. At
present this is possible by concentrating the use of high-capacity modern
wagons on unit-train operations.
E. Manufacturig Units
3017      IR builds all its diesel and electric locomotives, part of its
coaching stock, and a small proportion of its wagon requirements, relying
on private manufacture for the remainder. Locomotive production still
requires import of essential components, but steady if somewhat slow
progress is being made toward complete indigenous production. The work-
shops are efficient in all respects, and the products -- especially
mainline diesel locomotives -- have proved reliable in service and their
cost is less than the c.i.f. cost of locomotives and rolling stock of equal
capacity from foreign manufacturers.
3.18      The diesel locomotive works at Varanasi produced 105 locomotives
in the year 1971/72 and stepped up production aimed at a target of 135 in
1972/73. This was not achieved, due partly to electric power cuts and some
labor unrest.  Every effort is being made, through work-study and incentive
schemes, to increase capacity to allow annual productioln of 150 locomc-ives
or more. The Fifth Plan calls for production of this order, and the success
of the Plan will rest very largely on the efforts of workshop management
to increase production to the high level demanded.
3.19      The Integral Coach Factory in Madras has a capacity of about
750 coaches per annum. The demands of the Fifth Five-Year Plan will require
the full capacity of the factory, together with the supply of an equal number
of coaches from private industry in India. At present the coach factory has
in hand an export order for Zambia.
3.20      The Chittaranjan Locomotive Works discontinued manufacture of
steam locomotives in January 1972; its production is now concentrated on
electric mainline locomotives and diesel shunters. The Fifth Plan calls
for production of electric locos at the rate of about 85 locos per annum.
This will require a considerable increase over present production which
has been hampered for some time by design deficiencies in traction motors
imported from Europe. The result has been a drop in production to about
50 locos during each of the last two years. Diesel shunting locos are re-
quired by the Plan at the rate of about 50 per annum, which is well within
production capacity.
Wagons
3.21      IR has indicated the needs in the Fifth Plan for a very large
increase in the wagon fleet, and 27,000 wagons (in terms of four-wheelers)



- 11 -
are required to be built between January 1, 1974 and March 1975. IR has
capacity in its wagon repair shops to construct about 3,000 per annum. Pri-
vate firms in India have an installed capacity to build up to 40,000 wagons
per year but have never exceeded an outturn greater than 27,000. It is
apparent that the Plan is ambitious as time has to be allowed for a build-up
from present rates of production, and for the input of steel and imported
components (principally wheels and axles), to reach the desired rate.
Railway Exports by Indian Railways
3.22      In his speech to the Parliament in February 1973 the Minister of
Railways made special reference to the export potential of IR workshops
and other private manufacturers of railway rolling stock. He expressed
his intention to set up a special "Export Cell" in the Railway Board to
supervise and encourage export activities including consultancy services
to developing countries in Asia and Africa.
F. Operating Performance
3.23      Operating performance for each year from 1965/66 to 1972/73 is
shown in Table 2 for both broad and meter gauges. Performance is generally
satisfactory. The following indicators are noteworthy:
(a) The percentage of BG gauge electric locomotives available
for service has deteriorated over the last three years
and at 79.3% is too low. The main reason has been
attributed to traction motor failures. IR is taking steps
to improve reliability.
(b) Diesel locomotive km per day, at 672 km (on BG) is good,
and comparison with steam locomotives at 243 km again
emphasizes the importance of eliminating steam for diesel
and electric traction at as rapid a rate as is compatible
with financial and energy resources.
(c)  Wagon performance shows a mixed result in the last three
years. Wagon turnaround on (BG) has risen from 12.7 to
13.6 days, and from 9.40 to 11.7 days on MG. This is
largely the result of social and staff unrest and,
latterly, of electric power cuts, all of which, in
various ways, have delayed wagon movement. On the other
hand, improvement is notable in net ton-km carried per
wagon-day, which at 959 BG on is the highest yet achieved
by IR, This reflects the growing use of unit train operations
on IR in the transport of regular bulk traffics.
G. Performance Under Previous Credits
3.24      Covenants entered into under Credit 280-IN consisted of an earnings
covenant, a requirement to prepare and maintain a 15-year Corporate Plan and a



- 12 -
covenant calling for improved investment analysis. An initial version of the
Plan is required to be submitted to the Association by December 1973 and it
has been confirmed that this will be done. The earnings covenant, which
required net revenue to be at least sufficient to meet the dividend payment
due to the Government, has been fulfilled for the years 1971/72 and 1972/73.
The Government has advised the Association that because of an increase of
about 20% in personnel costs resulting from the recommendations of the Pay
Commission, it will not be possible for IR to meet the full dividend for
1973/74 out of net revenue. Consequently, the Government has requested and
the Association has agreed to, a waiver of the requirements of the earnings
covenant for the year 1973/74. For the two following years a waiver is also
proposed (para 5.14).
3.25      The Eleventh Railway Credit 280-IN helped to finance a project
which was defined as covering the last three years (1971/72-1973/74) of IR's
investment program in India's Fourth Five-Year Plan. The total cost of the
project was estimated at Rs 8,095 million, but following a mid-term review
of the Plan authorized expenditures were increased for the Plan period by
Rs 1,250 million. The accelerated rate of spending was mainly due to
cost escalation and to a revision of rolling stock requirements and line
capacity works in preparation for additional traffic anticipated in the
Fifth Plan. As a consequence the planned program of expenditure defining
the project will be completed by December 1973, three months earlier than
anticipated, and the proceeds of the Credit should also be fully disbursed
by the same time.
H. Railway Planning
3.26      Railway planning is geared to the five-year planning system
adopted by the Government for national development as a whole. Alterations
to the five-year railway plans are made, when necessary, at the Government's
mid-term review and IR's Investment Plans are reviewed annually by the
IR Board. These processes suit the circumstances of IR in the short term
but it was realized during negotiations for IDA Credit 280-IN in 1971 that
specific long-term objectives needed to be set, so that a clear framework
exists as a basis for five-year planning. It was therefore agreed that
IR would set up an organization of specially qualified staff to prepare
a 15-year Corporate Plan for IR and to set positive objectives. This
planning group started work in mid-1972 after some delay. Assistance has
been given by a Bank-financed consultant (TRANSMARK.-UK). The first draft
of the 15-year Corporate Plan has been satisfactorily completed and will
be placed before the IR Board and General )Managers for discussion, prior to
further development in the light of the Transport Sector Plan as it develops
during 1974.
3.27      It is recognized that any long-term  plan for Indian Railways
must be very flexible and subject to continuing adjustment. It was therefore
agreed during negotiations that IR would complete the initial version of the
Corporate Plan by December i973 and would thereafter continue to maintain it
by periodical revisions. There are many areas where intense study is neces-
sary. They include:



- 13 -
(a) Improved operating patterns to optimize productivity of
motive power and rolling stock;
(b) design features to be incorporated in new rolling stock
including power of locomotives, freight car loading
facilities, braking and coupling arrangements, and axle
loading and operating speeds;
(c) the scope for electric traction;
(d) the optimum period of years required to replace steam by
electric or diesel traction;
(e) improvements in line capacity by doubling track, gauge
widening and signalling;
(f) elimination of unremunerative assets; and
(g) staff requirements and training and adaptation to
mechanization and technological change.
These and other suKbjects listed in Annex 4 are being studied by the
corporate planning group.
IV. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. The Five-Year Plans
4.011     The Fourth Five-Year Plan of IR was designed, after the mid-term
review, to cater for freight traffic in 1973/74 of 240 million tons and an
increase in passenger traffic of 19.8% during the Plan period. Freight
tonnage is now expected to reach 208 million only, or about 13% less than
expected, but in terms of ton-km traffic movement in 1973/74 is now estimated
at 142 billion, which is only 3.5% less than the volume of traffic on which
the revised Investment Plan was based. Passenger traffic has increased at
an annual rate of 5.2% compared with only 4% assumed in drawing up the Plan.
4.02      Investment during the Fourth Plan is expected to be slightly above
the estimate of Rs 14.0 billion but because of cost escalation this represents
a reduction of about 5% in the physical output of locomotives and rolling
stock. Details of planned and actual spending during the Fourth Plan are
showm in Table 3.
4.03      The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974/75 - 1978/79) is not yet worked
out in detail but agreement has been reached between IR and the Planning
Commtission that IR should base its plans on an increase in freight tonnage
from 208 million expected in 1973/74 to 280 million in 1978/79 and an aver-
age annual increase in passenger traffic of 4%. On the basis of these fore-
casts IR has produced an investment program (Table 4) which provides for the
equipment and facilities required to carry the projected volumes of traffic.



- 14 -
Total expenditure in the Plan period is estimated at Rs 23.8 billion
(US$3.2 billion equivalent), slightly more than one-third of which would
be required for the provision of locomotives and rolling stock.
4.04      While the Plan as presently prepared may be subject to some
revision before its final adoption within India's Fifth Plan, it provides
a satisfactory basis for reviewing the content of the proposed project
which includes only the first year of the Fifth Plan investments.
B. The Project
4.05      The project is the investment program to be partly financed by the
proceeds of the proposed credit and covers a period of fifteen months from
January 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975. The project consists of new and ongoing
works which are required to meet projected increases in demand for freight
and passenger services and to continue with cost reduction measures
including modernization of equipment. The main elements of the project
are the continued replacement of steam by diesel or electric locomotives,
additions to freight-carrying capacity through wagon replacements and
increases in the wagon fleet, further electrification of mainlines, track
renewal works, and increases in workshop capacity.
4.06      The total expenditures to be made during the fifteen-month program
amount to Rs 4,874 million (US$654 million), with a foreign exchange content
of US$97 million equivalent. A summary of proposed expenditures appears
below:



- 15 -
IDA
%         Credit
Rs millions           US$ millions         Total          US$
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Expenditure (million)
Locomotives
and Rolling
Stock           1,594   551   2,145  213.9   74.0  287.9        44.0         65.5
Workshops
and Sheds         121     -      121   16.2       -   16.2        2.5           -
Machinery          78    19       97   10.5    2.5   13.0         2.0         2.0
Track Works,
Bridges and
Electric
Works           1,581    35   1,616  212.2    4.7  216.9         33.1         4.0
Signalling
and Communi-
cations           174    17      191   23.4    2.3   25.7         3.9         2.0
Electri-
fication          170    23      193   22.8    3.1   25.9        4.0          2.0
New Lines         164     -      164   22.0       -   22.0        3.4           -
Other Works,
Services and
Inventories       118    79      197   15.8   10.6   26.4         4.0         4.5
Staff Welfare
and Quarters      150            150   20.1       -   20.1        3.1           -
Total     4,150   724   4,874  556.9   97.2  654.1        100.0         80.0
4.07      Apart from a limited amount of spending on specialized machinery,
equipment and rails, the foreign exchange expenditures of IR are to be used
to procure components and materials required in the manufacture of diesel
and electric locomotives and rolling stock as well as similar components for
maintenance. Procurement of these materials and components is a continuous
process to maintain manufacturing operations at a planned level of
production.
4.08      Completion of the above program will enable IR to carry out its
planned production of locomotives and rolling stock and to continue with
trac.k renewal works, line capacity and other works, most of which are
already in progress. A description of the physical outputs during the
project period appears in Annex 8.
4.09      The foreign exchange cost is the total estimated cost of direct
foreign procurement. Costs are based on 1973/74 prices and include
provision for the estimated effect of currency realignments up to July 1973.



- 16 -
4.10      Cost estimates are based on experience with recent similar works
and on established procedures for estimating. There is no general provision
for contingencies since the project is part of an ongoing investment program,
the physical content of which will be adjusted to take account of changes
in available funds from budget allocations.
C. Financing of the Project
4.11      IR's financing plan during the two fiscal years in which the
projeCt 4S to be completed is shown and discussed in paras 5.09 to 5.12.
The proposed IDA credit would contribute to the financing of the foreign
exchange content of the project with respect to payments made from January 1,
1974. Payments made before that date would be covered from other sources
including IDA Credit 280-IN. Of the proposed credit, 82% is allocated to
locomotives and rolling stock; the foreign exchange component of this item
(26%) is higher than would be the case if sufficient domestically produced
steel and components were available. Items to be financed under the credit
are detailed in Annex 9.
D. Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursements
4.12      Items to be financed by IDA under the credit will consist of
(a) complete pieces of machinery and equipment ready for use on IR;
(b) assemblies or components to be incorporated in the manufacture of
railway equipment in India, primarily locomotives and rolling stock; and
(c) materials, principally steel and copper, to be used by IR or its
suppliers or contractors in India for producing railway equipment. IR
procurement from the private sector in India is normally based on competi-
tive tendering.
4.13      IDA-financed items will be procured by IR or other Government
agencies through international competitive tendering except for (a) a
limited number of imported components for assembly in railway equipment
manufactured in India; and (b) certain items which IR procures from particular
sources in order to reduce the types of equipment in use and thereby avoid
inventory and other costs. The total value of procurement for these purposes
(hereafter referred to as non-competitive procurement) is estimated at about
US$16.0 million equivalent (Category 8 in Annex 9), or about 20% of the
total credit. Allocation for these items under the credit will be limited
to this amount, and reallocation of the remainder of the credit to these
items will not be permitted. It had been expected that financing of
non-competitive procurement would have been reduced to a smaller amount, but
IR is still experiencing difficulty in getting supplies locally from
producers who have not yet the capacity to satisfy all IR's requirements
of these componenzs. Credit 280-IN included US$17.0 million equivalent
(23% of the total) for the same class of procurement. A further exception
to international bidding will apply to contracts of US$50,000 or less,
where otherwise the administrative burden would be heavy. The total amount
of such contracts would be a small proportion of the proposed credit.



- 17 -
4.14      For contracts over US$1 million equivalent, approval of the
Association will be sought before awards are made except in cases where the
validity period of bids is short and where the award is to be made to the
lowest evaluated bidder. Exemptions from the need for prior approval have
been granted in respect of steel, non-ferrous metals, and wheels and axles.
For contracts between US$50,000 and US$1 million equivalent, contract
documents will be forwarded in the usual way but additional documentation
covering bid analysis and other relevant information will be provided only
upoIn request of the Association.
4.15      Subject to review and agreement with the Association, savings
in any category of the proceeds of the proposed credit will be available
to cover increases in any other category except the non-competitive
procurement in Category 8. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
March 31, 1975, but in order to allow time for possible late payments the
closing date will be September 30, 1975. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex 10.
V. FINANCES AND EARNINGS
A. Introduction
5.01      The Government of India requires Indian Railways to pursue a
financial policy which will result in the earning of net revenues which are
sufficient to meet the dividend payment due to the Government on capital
.prov:ded to the Railways, and to earn a small surplus out of which minor
capital works are financed. The level of rates and fares is very low and
consequently IR operates on a narrow margin. There is undoubtedly cross-
subsidization in rates and fares, but the strucLure is to be examined by IR
in 1974 following the review of the transport sector (see para 3.12). During
the four years to 1970/71 net revenue from operations was not sufficient to
meet divide-d payments due to the Government.  The principal reason was
rapidly rising costs, particularly expenditure on staff compensation.
Personnel costs absorb about 57% of operating expenses and the average cost
of IR's employees in the five years to 1970/71 increased by 46%. During
the same period average receipts per ton-km and pass-km increased by 19%
and 10%, respectively. A modest increase in employee productivity was
insufficient to counteract the increases in pay, and because pay awards were
made effective about half way through each fiscal year, the action
subsequently taken by IR at the end of the year to adjust tariffs came too
late to avoid a net deficit.
5.02      The financial arrangements between IR and the Government are
described in Annex 5. All capital expenditure for additions, including that
from foreign loans and credits, is channeled to IR through the Government
capital-at-charge account. A dividend on this capital 1/ is payable annually
1/   Rate of dividend is 5.5% on capital provided to March 31, 1964 and
6% on capital provided thereafter.



- 18 -
but IR is not required to amortize the capital so provided. For 1972/73
the dividend amounted to Rs 1,615 million (about US$217 million equivalent).
Replacement of fixed assets at full replacement cost are charged to a De-
preciation Reserve Fund (DRF) which is built up from annual allocations
to operating expenses.
5.03      Following the report of the Railway Convention Committee (see
paras 3.05 to 3.09), IR has appointed study groups to examine the case
for reform in the method of accounting for capital assets and depreciation.
B. Past Performance
5.04      Table 5 shows IR's Revenue and Expenditure Accounts for the six
years to 1972/73. In 1971/72 and 1972/73 IR's net revenue from operations
showed a marked improvement over the results for the immediately preceding
years. This was largely a result of an increase in the volume of freight
traffic after two years of stagnation resulting from drought conditions.
The improvement was sufficient to enable IR to generate a net surplus
after meeting the dividend payment. Relief granted to IR in calculating
the amount of the dividend following a recommendation of the Convention
Committee and approved by Parliament was another factor in bringing about
this net surplus. The dividend relief amounted to about Rs 200 million a
year and was calculated by adjusting the dividend to take into account
specific areas of over-capitalization, capital invested in unremunerative
branch lines, and works-in-progress.
5.05      During the six years to 1972/73, the operating ratio has ranged
between 82.5 and 84.7. The financial impact of social burdens on IR was
demonstrated in the 1973/74 budget documents which showed the following
losses: 1/
Rs Millions
Unremunerative Branch Lines          75
Suburban Passenger Services         130
Other Passenger Services            500
Low-Rated Freight Traffic           550
Freight Concessions                  16
(Exports, etc.) 
1,271
Included in IR's expenditure is the cost of staff welfare, health and
medical services, educational assistance and subsidized housing costs
which together amount to about Rs 425 million. Considering the magnitude
of these expenses, the unremunerative services and the low level of rates
and fares (see para 3.10) the financial results from operations and the
1/   Losses means after charging the relevant portion of the dividend payment.



- 19 -
operating ratios achieved are considered satisfactory and compare favorably
with results achieved by most other railways.
5.06      Annual allocations to the DRF have been as agreed with the
Association under Credit 280-IN. All the available evidence suggests the
amounts charged are about equivalent to the depreciation which would be
chargeable on a replacement cost basis.
5.07      The balance sheet of IR at March 31, 1973, is shown in Table 6.
The value of fixed assets is not shown either at historical cost or at
replacement cost; their values represent the original cost of assets plus
any improvements when subsequently replaced. The inflation element in the
cost of replacements is charged against DRF and does not become reflected
in the fixed asset values. The amount of Government capital-at-charge
approximately corresponds to what would normally be regarded as the value
of net fixed assets. Return on capital-at-charge in 1972/73 was 4.5%.
5.08      Temporary loans from the Government as of March 31, 1973
amounted to Rs 857 million. These loans were obtained in the years
from 1967/68 to enable IR to make the full dividend payment due to the
Government.
C. Financing Plan
5.09      Table 7 shows the source and application of funds for the years
1973/74 to 1978/79. During the two years (1973/74 and 1974/75) in which
the proceeds of the proposed credit will be utilized, the funds required by
IR and the source of such funds will be as follows:



- 20 -
Rs millions US$ Equivalent
(millions)
Required Funds                                                                  %
A.   For Investment Program:
Capital expenditures                    7,292           979
Inventories                                53             7
7,345          986         100
B.   For Other Purposes:
Dividend payment                        3,566           479
Increase in fund balances                 171            23
Interest on temporary loans               166            22         100
3,903           524
Total Funds Required                         11,248         1,51Q
Source of Funds
A.   For Investment Program:
IR internal cash generation             2,735           367          37
Government capital-at-charge            4,190           563          57
Government temporary loans                420            56           6
7,345          986         100
B.   For Other Purposes:
IR internal cash generation             1,937           260          50
Government temporary loans              1,966           264          50
3,903           524        100
Total Sources of Funds                       11,248         1,510
5.10      The above financing plan is based on the present financial arrange-
ments (particularly with respect to dividends and temporary loans) between
the Government and IR. IR will be able to finance 37% of its total investment
requirements out of net internally generated funds. The balance would be
provided by the Government, either in the form of an increase in capital-at-
charge, or in the form of temporary loans to be repaid from future revenue
surpluses. The financing plan draws a distinction between (a) funds required
for the investment program and (b) funds required for other purposes. This
presentation shows that the funds required for other purposes, which should
normally be financed from IR's own cash generation, will in fact be provided
as to 50% from Government temporary loans. The reason for this is that IR
wllM be unable in the two years 1973/74 and 1974/75 to earn sufficient
additional r.et revenue to offset the impact of the sharp increase in
personnel costs and thus will need to draw temporary loans from the Govern-
ment in order to meet the full dividend payments for these years.
5.11      The Government contribution to capital-at-charge will include
part 1/ of the proceeds of foreign exchange loans and credits necessary to
1/   To the extent that they finance additions to IR fixed assets.



- 21 -
cover IR foreign exchange requirements. Table 8 shows the foreign exchange
requirements for IR investments during the two years 1973/74 and 1974/75,
details of loans and credits already available, and further financing required.
The figures are summarized below:
(1973/74-        Project  /a
1974/75)      Period Only -- 
(US$ Equivalent - millions)
Total Foreign Exchange Required        147.0              97.2
Already Available
IDA Credit 280-IN                  35.4               -
Bilateral Loans/Credits            18.3              8.1
To be Obtained
Proposed IDA Credit                80.0             80.0
Government Resources and/or
Bilateral Loans/Credits          13.3              9.1
147.0             97.2
/a   January 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975.
5.12      Of the project's foreign exchange requirements of US$97.2 million,
IDA would be contributing US$80.0 million from the proposed credit. The
balance will be found from future bilateral loans and credits which have
still to be finally arranged and from the Government's own resources.
At this stage there is considerable uncertainty about the source and
direction of bilateral assistance in general. However, so far as IR is
conLcerned, the Government has indicated allocations which are smaller
than in recent years. The proposed IDA credit is, therefore, expected to
provide 82% of the project's foreign exchange content.
D. Forecast Performance
5.i3      Forecast revenues and expenditures for the years 1973/74-1978/79
are shown in Table 9. Revenues are based on tariff levels in force on
April 1, 1973, while expenditure estimates are based on 1973/74 price levels
and take account of an increase in personnel costs following the recommenda-
tions of the Third Pay Commission. This award will increase IR personnel
costs by about Rs 1,000 million a year from 1973/74 and since the final
recommendations were approved in October 1973 it was not possible for IR
to take steps to recover the extra costs within the fiscal year 1973/74.
Consequently, IR's net revenue will not be sufficient to meet the dividend
payment due to the Government for 1973/74. Furthermore, in 1974/75 and
1975/76, even with the introduction of tariff increases the dividend will
not be fully met from net revenue. The Association has therefore waived the
requirements of an earnings covenant in Credit 280-IN, and if the proposed



- 22 -
credit is approved by the Executive Directors the Association would waive
the full requirements of a similar covenant in the proposed credit agreement.
5.14      It is proposed that IR and the Government will take the necessary
steps to enable IR to counteract the effect of the Pay Commission's award
over a period of three years. It was confirmed during negotiations that,
following the proposed partial wiaiver, such measures will be taken to ensure
that in the two years 1974/75 and 1975/76 IR's net revenues will be sufficient
to meet 70% and approximately 85%, respectively, of the dividend payments due
for those years.
5.15      The forecast revenues and expenditures (Table 9) have been adjusted
to snow the additional earnings required in each year so that from 1976/77
the dividend payment may be met in full. Provision has been made in arriving
at these figures for annual increases in personnel and other costs at 5%
p.a. On this basis the tariff increases required would be of the order of
5.5% in 1974/75 reducing gradually to 3.2% in 1978/79 but further increases
may be required if costs increase at a more rapid rate than has been assumed.
5.16      Achievement of the forecast net earnings on the basis described
above would result in an operating ratio reducing from 94.9 in 1973/74 to
86.5 in 1978/79. Even with this improved performance, IR will still have to
resort to temporary loans from the Government to meet part of the dividend
payments and expenditure chargeable to DF. These temporary loans would by
1978/79 amount to Rs 5,722 million (Table 7).
5.17      Forecast balance sheets for each year to March 31, 1979, are shown
in Table 10. Provided prompt action is taken to keep tariffs in line with
future increases in costs, the return on Government capital-at-charge will
increase from 1.2% in 1973/74 to 4.7% in 1978/79.
5.18      In recent years IR has become increasingly involved irn studies
relating to mass rapid transit systems in the principal cities, the funds
for which are channeled through IR's budget. All expenditures to date are
accounted for separately from IR's operating results but in the future it is
possible that IR might be asked to participate in the operation of such
systems which will be outside its existing railway network. During negotia-
tions it was agreed that in the event of IR's being required to operate any
new rail mass rapid transit system, losses from sulch operations if included
in IR's budget will be shown separately and accounted for separately in the
annual accounts.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. The Project and the Fifth Plan 1974/75-1978/79
6.01      The major objectives of the Fifth Five-Year Plan will require the
achievement of a real. GNP -rowth rate of 5.5% a year. This growth rate
will require substantial achievements within all sectors of the economy,
especially in power and industrial production, which is assumed to take



- 23 -
the lead with an annual growth rate of 8% to 9% in the volume of production. 1/
Although these growth targets may not be fully met, an expansion is never-
theless expected in basic industries such as steel, fertilizers and cement.
This development will be combined with an increased generation of electric
power, which is already in short supply. These industries generate most of
the demand for bulk transport to be carried by the railways and are important
for the transport sector in general; the expected industrial expansion will
therefore result in substantially increased transport requirements, partic-
ularly for movements of (i) raw materials such as coal and other minerals;
and (ii) manufactured products such as steel, cement, and fertilizers
(paras 6.04 to 6.06).
6.02      IR's Fifth Five-Year Plan, of which the project forms a part, has
been formulated to meet these requirements; the basic Plan objectives as
stated by IR are:
(a) to provide capacity for increased freight and passenger
traffic anticipated during the Plan period; and
(b) to modernize the system with respect to its equipment
and practices to the maximum extent permitted by the
availability of funds, so as to improve the efficiency
of the network and to reduce costs.
Both objectives have received equal attention in the preparation of IR's
Fifth Plan and are inter-related with each other. The Plan assumes the
combined effect of operational improvements will result in a reduction in
wagon turn-around times from 13.6 to 12.1 days on BG and from 11.7 to
9.6 days on MG lines. If no improvements in operational performance had
been assumed, the investment program would have been about 20% greater than
now proposed. In general terms, IR assumes that it would be able to absorb
an annual increase of about 2%-3% in traffic during the Fifth Plan period
through replacements and operational improvement without providing additional
capacity. Taken as a whole,'IR's Fifth Plan and the proposed project provide
for investments only to meet the anticipated transport requirements; the
severe shortage of funds, particularly of foreign exchange, has been an
important factor in formulating the Plan and the project. For this reason,
replacements are overdue when carried out by IR if compared with normal
replacement practices elsewhere (e.g., about 1,600 or one-sixth of all steam
locomotives are 40 years old or more). Therefore, any possible shortfall in
expected traffic development will not result in redundant capacity, but in an
improved rate of replacements, which is essential for maintenance of the
railways' operational efficiency in the longer term.
6.03      The economic evaluation of the project and IR's Fifth Plan, for
analytical purposes, has been divided into two parts:
1/   Approach to the Fifth Plan, 1974-1979, Planning Commission, January 1973.



- 24 -
(a) investments in replacements; and
(b) investments in additional capacity in order to
accommodate that part of the traffic increase which
cannot be absorbed by the expected improved operational
efficiency (para 6.02).
The economic justification of replacements is based on estimated cost
savings, which consist of: (a) a reduction in present unit operating costs;
and (b) avoidance of a future increase in these costs. The justification
of additional capacity is based on the difference between the reduced
railway costs and the costs which would have been incurred by using the
second best alternative to carry the increased traffic. The economic
evaluation procedures and the basis for the economic return calculations
are described in Annex 11.
B. Traffic
6.04      Tables 11 and 12 show IR's past freight and passenger traffic
development and Tables 13 and 14 show forecasts to 1978/79, while Annex 2
shows the basis for these traffic forecasts. Passenger traffic is expected
to increase by 4% annually in terms of pass-km during the Fifth Plan period
1974/75-1978/79. This overall growth rate is fairly conservative compared
with the past trends. The increase was 5.7% in the year 1972/73 and the
overall increase during the Fourth Plan period 1969/70-1973/74 is likely
to average 6.1% p.a. A cautious future forecast may, however, be justified
because recent trends show a higher growth rate for short-distance commuter
traffic than for medium and long-distance traffic (Table 15).
6.05      IR freight traffic in terms of ton-km is expected to show an
annual increase of 5.8% during the Fifth Plan period (Table 13). This
growth rate is based on a projection that IR will carry 280 million tons
of freight by the end of the Fifth Plan in 1978/79, compared with 208 million
tons in 1973/74. The freight tonnage is forecast to increase annually by
6.1% implying a slight decrease in the average lead due mainly to changes
in the flow of coal traffic to power stations. The forecast is based on a
lower level of IR freight traffic in 1978/79 than that assumed by the Inter-
Ministerial Working Group on Freight Traffic whose 9% annual growth rate was
considered unrealistic both by IR and the Planning Commission (Annex 2).
6.06      Coal traffic is expected to account for about 29% of the total
freight tonnage at the end of the Fifth Plan period, compared with about
25% at present. The other six main commodities--raw materials and finished
products of steel plants, iron ore for export, cement, foodgrains, petroleum,
oil and lubricants (POL) and fertilizers -- which accounted for 37% of the
total freight traffic in 1972/73 are expected to increase their share to
43% by 1978/79. Excluding IR's non-revenue earning traffic (railways' own
internal traffic consisting mainly of coal and other railway materials
amounting to 27.7 million tons in 1972/73 and decreasing to 25.0 million



- 25 -
tons in 1978/79) coal traffic would amount to 32% and the other six com-
modities to 47% of revenue-earning traffic in 1978/79 compared with 29%
and 43%, respectively, in 1972/73. Thus, the seven main bulk commodity
groups which accounted for 72% of the total revenue earning traffic in
1972/73, would increase to about 79% by 1978/79. It is evident that IR is
becoming increasingly a bulk carrier over longer distances with inherent
advantages to perform this function. Inter-modal coordination and planning
of investments is therefore mainly related to terminal operations and
short-haul distribution and collection; issues relating to pricing policy
(para 2.07) will be discussed between the Government and the Association
during 1974 (para 2.10). Only to a lesser extent do the investment decisions
involve choices of alternative line hauls. Both the Planning Commission and
IR, nevertheless, are paying appropriate attention to the various alternatives,
although the limited capacity of the vehicle manufacturing industry represents
a constraint on the development of road transport and thus on an improved
traffic distribution between the railways and highways. This problem is,
however, being alleviated to some extent, through IDA support (Eighth
Industrial Imports Project).
C. Cost-Reducing Investments
6.07      IR's cost-reducing investments consist of replacements and
improvements in the railways' existing facilities to maintain and improve
their utilization. These investments cannot be entirely isolated from
those relating to capacity increases because in most cases replacements
and improvements also provide some additional capacity. However, for the
purposes of economic evaluation, a distinction, even if arbitrary, must
be made between these two types of investment.
6.08      According to IR, the investment in replacements represents about
27% of the Fifth Five-Year Investment Program, or Rs 6.5 billion of the
total of Rs 23.8 billion. For the project period they total Rs 1.5 billion
or about 30% of project outlays. It is, however, safe to say that the
cost-reducing investments are larger than replacements which are charged
to the DRF since they do not include investments in modernization which are
not carried out in connection with direct replacement of existing assets.
A considerable part of investments in rolling stock, workshops, signalling
and safety, etc., which in financial terms are charged to capital, represent
such investments. Therefore, the estimated expenditures on cost-reducing
investments have been reconstructed in Table 16, by major investment
classifications showing totals for the Fifth Plan period and for the
project. This table excludes investments to be made in so-called unremuner-
ative services (staff welfare and quarters, user's amenities, etc.). The
cost-reducing investments are estimated to amount to Rs 9.0 billion for the
Fifth Plai (38%) and to Rs 2.0 billion for the project period (43% of
total project cost).
6.0'3     Wihile no exact assessment of future cost development is possible,
it is reasonable to assume that without replacements and other related
investments, thie operating costs per traffic unit would gradually increase.



- 26 -
Such increases will be avoided by the project investment, which will, in
addition, result in a reduction in the level of present unit operating costs.
The reduction in present long-term marginal economic unit operating costs
has been estimated at Paise 1.0 per tom-km for freight traffic and at
Paise 0.9 per pass-km for passenger traffic (Annex 11); the increase in
the level of present unit operating costs has been estimated at 3.0% p.a.
in future without the project investment. The resulting cost development
with and without the project is illustrated in Table 17; the basis for
these estimates is presented in Annex 11. The cost savings in 1974/75 will
accrue to 10.1 billion ton-km (6.5% of total freight traffic in 1974/75)
and to 7.2 billion pass-km (5.2% of total pass-km in 1974/75). The total
cost savings have, on this basis, been calculated to Rs 163 million in
1974/75 (Table 17) increasing gradually to Rs 210 million by 1978/79 due
to an increase in unit operating costs without the project.
6.10      The total estimated benefits of cost-reducing investments
related to the project result in an economic rate of return (ER) of 12%
(Table 17), which is satisfactory.
D. Capacity-Increasing Investments
6.11      According to Table 16, investments for additional capacity
amount to Rs 14.1 billion for the Fifth Plan as a whole (63% of total
investments in remunerative services) and to Rs 2.6 billion for the
project period (57% of total). These investments are required to accommo-
date additional freight traffic (mainly in bulk such as coal, iron ore,
cement, etc.) of about 6 million tons by the end of 1974/75 increasing
gradually to 35 million tons by the end of the Fifth Plan in 1978/79.
6.12      The railways are the most economic mode to carry this bulk traffic
with a long-term economic cost advantage of Rs 0.09 per net ton-km over the
second best alternative, the highways. With an average transport distance
of 670 km for the additional traffic to be accommodated, the benefits would
amount to Rs 360 million in 1974/75.
6.13      The capacity-increasing investments have, on the above basis,
been estimated to result in an economic rate of return (ER) of 13% (Table 17)
for the project, which is satisfactory. The result is relatively insensi-
tive to changes in the economic cost of fuel; an increase of 20% in fuel
costs would increase the ER by 1 percentage unit to 14%. An increase in
fuel costs increases the cost advantage of rail transport over highway
transport because the former has a more favorable traffic output/fuel con-
sumption ratio. On a longer term, with increasing fuel costs and shortages
apparent, the return may therefore be considerably higher than estimated
in this appraisal using fuel costs prevailing in June 1973.
E. Overall Evaluation
6.14      The investments in remunerative services amount during the project
period to Rs 4.6 billion including both the cost-reducing and capacity-



- 27 -
increasing investments. These investments have been calculated to result
in total benefits of Rs 525 million by the end of 1974/75 (Table 17) and
in an ER of 13%, which is satisfactory. The first year benefits (FYB)
would, on a similar basis, be 11%.
6.15      It is concluded that, taken as a whole, IR's investment program
responds reasonably well to the needs of India's economy. It is expected
that the basis for the future programs will continue to improve with:
(i) improved transport sector planning (para 2.10); (ii) completion of IR's
first Corporate Plan (para 3.26); and (iii) improvements in IR's project
evaluation techniques (Annex 7). Pending completion of these improvements,
the project provides essential investments in renewals, cost saving works
and limited expansion to carry forecast traffic.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal matters:
(a) the content of a timetable and plan of action for the
establishment in 1974 of a framework for future Bank
Group participation in the transport sector (para 2.10);
(b) for the year 1973/74 the Association has agreed to waive
the requirements of the earnings covenant in Credit 280-IN
(para 3.24);
(c) the preparation and updating of a Corporate Plan covering
all aspects of IR's activities (para 3.27);
(d) earnings are to be sufficient to meet the dividend payable
to the Government, but because of exceptional circumstances
the Association has agreed, subject to approval of the
proposed credit by the Executive Directors, to waive the
full requirements of the earnings covenant for the years
1974/75 and 1975/76 so that the net earnings should be
sufficient to meet at least 70% and approximately 85%,
respectively, of the dividends due to the Government for
those years (para 5.14); and
(e) if in the future any losses from the operation of mass rapid
transit systems are included in IR's budget, such losses will
be shown separately therein and in IR's annual accounts
(para 5.18).
7.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$80 million to the Government of India.
December 6, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Data on Transport Sector
1.        The following tabulation indicates the significance of the
various mechanized modes of transport in India in 1960/61 and 1970/71
in terms of ton-km and pass-km: 1/
Freight           Passenger
(billion ton-km) (billion pass-km)
1960/61  1970/71  1960/61  1970/71
Rail                   87.8    127.4       77.7    118.1
Road                   17.4      62.5     57.0    116.4
Coastal Shipping        4.0       6.0    less than 1
Pipeline                1.8       6.0       -        -
Air (domestic)          0.1       0.2       0.6      1.9
Total            111.0    202.0    136.0    237.0
The above figures indicate the order of magnitude rather than exact volumes,
since only approximate estimates are available for road transport and
coastal shipping.
2.        The overall annual growth rate for the transport sector was
about 6% during the 1960's, with freight traffic increasing at a slightly
higher rate than passenger traffic.  During the same period the GNP at
constant prices increased by 3.7% p.a.
3.        According to the tabulation above, the railway accounted for 63%
of total freight and 50% of total pass-traffic in 1970/71; in 1960/61 the
corresponding percentages were 79% and 57%. This reduction in the relative
share of the railways coincides with the considerable expansion of motorized
road transport, which increased its share of freight traffic from 16% to
31% and of passenger traffic from 42% to 49% during the 1960's. The
railway still remains the dominant mode, but it is expected that it will
1/   The estimates have been compiled from a number of reports, the most
important being: (1) Position Paper on Transport and Communications,
Planning Commission, September 1972; (2) Final Report, Committee on
Transport Policy and Coordination, January 1966; (3) Survey of
Commercial Vehicle Industry in India, May 1973, IBRD Report No. 165-IN;
(4) Annual Reports of Indian Railways and Indian Airlines; (5) Indian
Coal Transport Study, 1964; and (6) Appraisal Report on the First
Shipping Project, February 1972, IBRD Report PTR-102a.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
remain so only for transport of bulk commodities while road transport will
gradually take over the prime carrier position for general goods and
passengers over medium and short distances.
4.        According to a recent Bank economic report, 1/ contribution of
transport to India's national product is forecast to be 4.7% by the end of
the Fourth Plan in 1973/74 (about Rs 18 billion) in contrast to about 4%
at the beginning of the Plan period. Investment data for the economy show
that during the Fourth Plan the annual investment has averaged about 10%
(Rs 40 billion) of the national development Plan. The transport sector as
a whole took up about 20% (Rs 8 billion) and the railways about 6% of that
amount; the railways' share of the public sector investment in transport
is estimated to be about one-third during the Fourth Plan. The planned
allocation of investments by modes is given in Table 1 for the Fourth
and Fifth Plans, while details on the expected future traffic development
are presented in Annex 2.
5.        The planned and actual Fourth Plan investments by mode of
transport are given in Appendix 1. A comparison between the original
allocation in the Fourth Plan and the expected outlay indicates approximately
the extent to which the various modes have been developing as compared to
the original targets. In relative terms, the largest shortfall, about 20%,
will relate to the national highways; this will, however, be compensated by
an improved performance by the state higlways sector, which will exceed
its target by more than 10%. The shipping sector shows the highest
percentage increase compared with the Plan target, although the tonnage
will show a shortfall of 0.62 million GRT compared with 3.5 million GRT
envisaged in the Plan. The reason for this discrepancy is that delivery
times have been longer than originally expected; the operative tonnage
will, however, exceed the target in the early years of the Fifth Plan. The
development of railways as compared to the Fourth Plan has been discussed
in paragraphs 2.02 and 4.01.
1/   Report No. SA-32a, May 10, 1972.



INDIA                                                                       APPENDIX 1
TO Jh4NX I
APPRAISAL OF A ThELT1 RAILAY PROJECT
Planned and Actual Outlays for Transport and ComumicAtions In the Fourth Plan, 1969/70 - 1973/74
(Ia. In Million)
8Ypenditure                          1972/73           1973/74           Eatimated
Pourth Plan         1969/70          1970/71            1971/72      kpproved Outlay    gat. Approx.         Tntal(4)
(actual)        (actual)                                                             1969i70-1973/74
(1)                    (2)                  (3)              (4)              (S)                (6)                (7)            (8)                  (9)
aileys                   Center                   14200.0(1)       1924.0           2312.4             3091.4           3360.4            3295.4           14163.6 (M)
RAds                    Center                     4180.0           284.2            362.7              518.5           1009.0           1409.0            3514.0 (-
States/U.T.               4530.0           776.3            9864.6            1145.5           1119.1            1120.0            5145.5
Road Transport           Center                      30.0             4.4              5.5               4.5              46.4 (2)         46.4              107.2 (+)
States/U.T.               890.0            149.0            183.8              242.0            156.0             158.0            890.8 (+)
major Forts              Center                    16CO.0           259.0            372.4              482.J            593.4             472.9            2180.0 (+)
Minor Porte              Center                     200.0            19.1             35.5               32.3             30.9             32.2             150.0 (.)
States/U.T.                150.0            13.4            27.1               31.2              31.7             36.6             140.0 (-)
Shipping                Center                     1400.0           215.1            368.3              205.9            s21.4            700.0            2010.7 (+)
Inland  ate.r           Center                      90.0             8.3              7.4               19.4             34.7              35.0             140.8 (+)
Tranaport
StatellU.T.                 30.0             2.9              3.1               4.8              6.3               6.5              23.6 (-)
Lightho..es &            Center                      70.0            11.5              8.5               9.2             14.7               16.1             60.0 (-)
Uightships
Civil Air Transport      Center                    2020.0           291.7            281.1              428.6            451.9             451.9            1905.2 (-)
State-/U.T.                 10.0             1.3              4.0                6.0             6.3               6.3              23.9 (+1
Tarahka barraes         Center                      700.0           151.7            113.4              100.0            111.4            123.5             600.0 (-)
Touris.                 Center                      250.0'(3         15.3             40.5              45.4             89.3             110.0             300.7 (+)
Staten/U.T.                110.0            17.4            33.2               42.1             34.9              34.9             162.5 (+)
Conn.nnieationa          Center                    5200.0           668.4            5b4.5             857.8            1312.2           1450.0            4073.9 (-5
Broadcasting             Center                     400.0            18.6             33.7               57.7            82.9             117.1             310.0 (-5
Total - TAprt            Center                   36060.0          4831.6           5961.7             7324.5          9015.2            9621.8           36754.8 (+)
ocui:ts              States360.
Comnunicati ...
(1)  Includes provision far depreciation and outlay on etropolitan transport project.
(2)   Includes provisine for Delhi Transport Corporation which has recently been taken over by the Canter.
(3)  Suhbequently revised to Rs. 350.0 dIllon.
(4)  Brackets indLcate if the Plan allocation will be exceeded (+) or If there vill be a shortfall (-).
(5)   Provision for Shipbuilding and Pipelines are made In the Industries Sector.
Ilovber 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Traffic Forecasts
A.   Passenger Traffic
1.        Forecasts of IR's passenger traffic during the Fifth Plan period
1974/75-1978/79 were prepared by an Inter-Ministerial Working Group
separately for "Suburban" and "Non-Suburban" traffic and are realistic
assessments of traffic growth. These two terms, adopted by IR, are misleading
to some extent because suburban traffic includes only railway traffic in and
around the three largest cities, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras,1/ while
similar traffic in other urban areas is treated as non-suburban; "metropolitan"
and "other" railway traffic may express more correctly the above two traffic
categories.
2.        The "suburban" railway traffic increased at a considerably higher
rate during the 1960's than the "non-suburban" traffic, as indicated in the
following tabulation:
1960/61             1970/71            Growth, % p.a.
Pass-     Pass-km   Pass-      Pass-km    1960/61 - 1970/71
million   billion   million   billion    Pass       Pass-km
Suburban          685      11.82     1,227     23.05       6.0        6.9
Non-Suburban      909      65.85     1,204     95.07       2.9        3.7
Total           1,594      77.67     2,431    118.12       4.3        4.3
The most obvious reason for this higher growth rate was the rapid increase
of population in the outer zones of metropolitan areas; the average annual
population growth rate was for India 2.2% p.a. during the 1960's; for the
metropolitan areas it was above 3%, with a considerable expansion of resi-
dential areas.
3.        The forecast assumes the "suburban" traffic of IR to increase by
a compound rate of 4.6% p.a. during the Fifth Plan period, with the highest
increase 6% ?.a.) in Bombay. The forecast is broken down by metropolitan
areas as follows:
1/   Secunderabad is also Inciuded but its share is less than 1% of total
suburban traffic.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Pass-km in millions
Bombay    Calcutta    Madras    Secunderabad    Total
1969/70        14,102       6,733      1,260           73        22,168
(actual)
1973/74        17,056       7,547      1,485           96        26,184
1978/79        22,129       8,647      1,792          116        32,684
The growth rates are low compared with the past trend, but the Inter-Minis-
terial Working Group recognizes, quite rightly, that IR does not htve the
capacity to provide for increased traffic, even when the effect of the various
capacity-increasing steps now being implemented are included. Therefore,
the expected growth rate expresses the expansion of IR's carrying capacity
rather than the overall growth in metropolitan passenger traffic potential.
The forecast assumes that bus transport will increase at a more rapid rate
on the shorter distances than IR's suburban traffic. In the longer term,
Mass Rapid Transport Systems (MRTS), which are now under preparation in
Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and Delhi, will gradually replace the present
conventional surface modes of transport. In the Fifth Plan, Rs 6.0 billion
(Table 'k) has been allocated for planning and construction of NETS in these
metropclvx~.an areas separately from the railway and highway investments.
4.        The "non-suburban" traffic in pass-km has been estimated to increase
uj, 3.9% culring the Fifth Plan period, from 111.6 billion pass-km in 1973/74
tc 134 billion in 1978/79. The forecast assumes that this growth will mainly
take place on the longer distances thus increasing the average lead. Table 14
indicates the expected development within various distance groups; the number
of passengers on distances up to 80 km is expected tq remain practically
constant over the Plan period, with bus transport capturing the bulk of the
traffic increase. As a result of this development, the number of passengers
will show an overall low growth rate of 0.5% p.a.
5.        The forecasts for "suburban" and "non-suburban" imply that IR's
passenger traffic as a whole is expected to increase from 137.8 billion
pass-km in 1973/74 to 164.7 billion pass-km in 1978/79, or by 3.8% p.a.
During the same period the number of passengers is expected to increase
from 2,721 million to 3,017 million, or by 2.1% p.a. Both these growth
rates are low, but are based on a realistic assessment of IR's future role as
a passenger carrier. IR has been, and still is, operating short distance
services at a considerable loss; the railway realizes that bus transport,
combined with Mass Rapid Transit Systems (MRTS) in the four major metropoli-
tan areas, generally provides a more economic solution to short distance
traffic. IR is prepared to coordinate its own programs with the development
of such systems.
B.   Frefght Traffic
6.        The Inter-Ministerial Working Group arrived at an estimate of
335 to 350 million tons by 1978/79; no estimates were prepared on the



ANNEX 2
Page 3
development of IR freight traffic in terms of ton-km. The forecast
freight volume was considered too high by IR, which produced another, lower
alternative (alt. II). The following tabulation gives a commodity-wise
breakdown of both forecasts with actuals for 1972/73 and estimates for
1973/74. The Planning Commission has not finally approved either of the
forecasts but considers IR's alternative (II) more realistic on the basis
of past performance of the economy and the financial and other resources
available in the Fifth Plan; consequently, it has tentatively approved the
lower alternative to be used as the basis in preparation of IR's investment
and work programs. The mission agrees with the views of the Planning
Commission, although even the lower alternative may be difficult to achieve,
particularly as the latest estimates for 1973/74, 208 million tons, is lower
than originally expected (215 million tons).
(in million tons)
Actual   Estimate    Fifth Plan Projection
1972/73   1973174              1978/79
Alt. I         Alt. II
1.  Steel Plants                 23.8      24.9        47.0           40.0
(a)  Finished Products       6.6        6.8        12.0           11.5
(b)  Raw Materials           17.2      18.1        35.0           28.5
2.  Coal                         67.0       67.6      124.0            92.0  (94.0)/b
(a)  Steel Plants &
Washeries            16.8       18.7        32.0           28.0
(b)  Railway                16.3       15.0        13.0           13.0
(c)  Other Users            33.9       33.9        79.0           51.0 (53.0)
3.  Iron Ore Export               9.7        9.8        27.0           18.5
4.  Cement                       10.8       10.8        21.0           18.0
5.  Foodgrains                   16.4       17.2        17.0           16.0 (17.0)
6.  Fertilizers                   5.6        5.7        10.0           10.0 (11.0)
P. 0. L.                     10.1       10.8        19.0           15.5
S.  Other Goods                  48.6       49.1        58.0           58.0 (54.0)
9, Railway M4aterials            11.4       12.1        12.0           12.0
TOTAl                       203.5     208.0       335.0 /a       280.0
/a   If Steel Ministry's latest assessment on hot metal targets are taken
into account, then the total volume would increase to about 350 million tons.
'   The es..zate used in :nis appraisal is presented in parenthesis if differ-
ent .-rom alternative iLI.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
The biggest discrepancy between the two forecasts is found under the first
three commodity groups: steel plants, coal and iron ore for export; the
discrepancy if particularly large for coal. These forecasts are discussed
below.
7.        Steel Plants.  Traffic during the Fourth Plan has been stagnant.
In fact, the same volumes, 6.8 million tons of finished products and 18.3 mil-
lion tons of raw materials, are estimated to be transported in 1973/74 as
at the beginning of the Plan period. The reasons for this development are
the disturbances in the eastern parts of the country and delays in commis-
sioning of the Bokaro Steel Plant. The Ministry of Steel has, however,
assumed that the output of existing plants will improve significantly during
the Fifth Plan period in addition to expansion of Bhilai and Bokaro Steel
Plants; alternative I is based on this assumption. Furthermore, alterna-
tive II assumes that production cannot be stepped up to 80%-95% of rated
capacity by the end of the Plan period. The raw material requirement of
35 million tons in alternative I was considered too high because it was
based on an output of finished products of 14 million tons. Although
alternative II may be considered achievable, even this target appears high
compared with the present production volumes and implies a growth rate of
about 10% p.a. over the Plan period.
8.        Coal.  Coal for steel plants has in alternative II been reduced
to correspond with the expected development of steel production (para 7);
railway coal has in both forecasts been reduced from the present level of
consumption due to the gradual replacement of steam as motive power. The
main discrepancy relates to coal for other users, the bulk of which is
consumed by thermal power plants. The railways forecast (alternative II)
assumes, realistically, that a number of thermal plants now being planned
will not be completed before the end of the Fifth Plan due to a considerable
gestation period; in addition, there appears to be a development towards
locating an increasing number of power plants close to or at pitheads thu;
reducing the need for rail transport. Further, the inter-modal studies
carried out by the Planning Commission indicate that 5 to 6 million tons of
coal annually should be transported by coastal shipping by the end of the
Plan period, correspondingly reducing the transport of coal by rail. In
spite of this, a slightly higher estimate (53 million tons) was accepted
as coal for other users on basis of information obtained during negotiations.
9.        Iron Ore for Export.  During recent years, about 10 million tons
of iron ore have been exported per year compared with the Working Group's
forecast (aliernative I) of 27 million tons, while alternative II estimates
an annual exDort of 18.5 million tons by the end of the Plan period.  The
reasons for reduced export voiumes in the latter forecast are given as:
(i) increased domestic demand from expanding steel plants; (ii) draught
limitations in ports, which do not allow the use of modern ore carriers
and thus reduces the competitiveness of Indian exports. It was noted
1hat even for the most modern port (Haldia) draughts up to 40 ft will not
be possible unt_l l980; (iii) part of the ore (from Daitari mine) may



AZNEX 2
Page 5
be t:ransported by road; and (iv) less optimistic assumptions on expansion
of iron ore mines in general. In the light of past perfornmance, alterna-
tive II appears more realistic than the higher alternative.
10.       Cement.  The Ministry of Industrial Development furnished the
Working Group with detailed information regarding present and future capa-
cities and locations of cement plants. The total licensed capacity is
expected to be 26.8 million tons by the end of the Plan period generating
a rail transport requirement of 21 million tons. This would involve con-
struction of 15 additional plants and expansion of six of the existing
30 plants which have a capacity of 9.1 million tons. It may not be possible
to achieve such considerable expansion within the next five years; although
alternative II has reduced the rail transport requirement to 18 million
tons, the forecast still appears to be high.
11.       Foodgrains.  Both alternatives assume that the transport of food-
grains will not increase from the present level of about 17 million tons.
because of an assumed increase in self-sufficiency in various parts of the
country and thus a lesser need for transport. This may be an overlv optimis-
tic assumption and rail transport of foodgrains may continue to increase,
compensating for a possible shortfall for other commodities such as coal,
iron ore and cement. The appraisal estimate was maintained at 17 million tons
compared with 16 million tons in alternative II.
12.       Fertilizers.  Both forecasts assume an annual shipment of 10 mil-
lion tons of fertilizers by the end of the Plan period compared with about
6 million tons at present. The forecast appears reasonable on the basis of
detailed information provided by the Department of Chemicals; however, a
small adjustment upwards was made (11 million tons).
13.       POL Products.  According to estimates prepared by the Departrent
of Petroleum, the total demand for POL products would amount to 39.5 million
tons in 1978/79, of which the railways would carry about 19 million tons
compared with 11.6 million tons at present. The estimates were based on
the anticipated regionwise product availability and demand and also assume
an increased use of pipelines. Alternative II, which estimates the rail-
ways would carry about 15.5 million tons of POL products by the end of the
Plan period is based on a realistic assumption that the product pipelines
now under consideration by the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and the
Planning Commission will be completed by 1978/79 thus reducing the need for
rail transport.
14.       Other Goods.  The present level of Other Goods traffic is close
to 50 million tons annually and has remained at about this level since
1967/68, mainly because of increased competition from road transport. Both
the Working Group and the railways consider however that the railways will
provide increased competition by improved marketing organization. They,
maintain that the railways have already lost most of the traffic which road
transport is able to carry in more economic terns. In addition, this part



ANNEX 2
Page 6
of the traffic may show the highest overall growth rates due to general
industrial and economic growth thus providing an increase for both railways
and highways. In spite of these considerations, the mission considered the
58 million tons assumed in both forecasts to be too high and applied a
lower estimate of 54 million tons.



ANNEX 3
I'age 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Transport Policy Review
1.        During negotiations for Credit 280-IN (Eleventh Railway Project)
it was agreed that the Government would undertake a transport sector policy
review which would lead to an understanding between the Government and the
Association on the basic transport policies to be followed as a framework
for future Bank Group activity in the transport sector. The Government and
the Association subsequently exchanged letters of December 4, 1971, and
May 2, 1972, respectively, which established the basic terms of reference
and the time frame for the policy review. The terms of reference are
essentially spelled out in the annex to the Association's letter of May 2,
1972.
2.        The Government completed the transport policy review covering
the six major study areas listed in the annex to the May 2 letter by the
time of negotiations. In addition to these specific items, the Planning
Commission has contracted with Engineers India Ltd. (EIL) to undertake a
systems analysis study of rail and highway transport in India which is to be
completed by February-May 1974. At the same time the Planning Commission
itself has been studying a range of inter-modal issues and projects in the
course of preparing the Fifth Five-Year Plan. These studies mainly have
been related to improving the allocation of transport resources between
rail/road, rail/pipelines and rail/coastal shipping, in addition to the
particular problems of highway transport.
3.        The results of the transport policy review completed by the
Government were presented in 5 separate papers submitted to the Bank dealing
with the following key issues:
(a) review of transport policy and coordination;
(b) major gaps in the availability of data in the transport sector;
(c) criteria and methodology for project appraisal in the transport
sector;
(d) identification of the principal long-range issues in the
transport sector;
(e) constitutional powers of the Central and State Governments in
respect of the transport sector; and
(f)  policies for coordinated development of the transport system.
The last two issues were dealt with in a combined paper.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Except for minor delays, the transport policy review was completed
as scheduled. T'he treatment of some of the issues was however limited and
may require considerably more work during 1974 before the intended agreement
on transport policy between the Association and the Government can be
established. These limitations relate mainly to pricing policy and identifi-
cation of principal long-range policy issues. Nevertheless, considerable
progress has taken place during recent years in transport planning and
coordination and serious attention is now being paid to alternative modes
of transport in evaluation of transport projects. It is evident from the
foregoing that the Government has met at least its minimum commitments under
the Eleventh Railway Project with respect to transport policy, albeit with
some delays in the original timetable.
5.        An understanding was reached during the negotiations that future
Bank Group activity in India's transport sector will be guided by a framework
to be established and contained in a "Memorandum of Understanding" between
the Government and the Association. For this purpose, a timetable and plan of
action wLs agreed upon according to which the "Memorandum of Understanding"
will be established not later than October 1974 prior to Board presentation
of a possible thirteenth railway credit. The plan of action involves a
review by the Association of the papers prepared by the Government (para 3),
identification of principal outstanding issues and sending of a review
mission to India in March/April 1974 for discussions with the Government
and to prepare a draft Memorandum. On the part of the Government the plan
of action requires comments on the principal outstanding issues identified
by the Association and further work to be undertaken within areas agreed upon
by the sector review mission.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS 15-YEAR CORPORATE PLAN
Summary of Contents
1.   Introduction
1.01      Summary of history of development of IR, its present
organization and financial state.
1.02      Relations with Government of India.
1.03      The need for a Corporate Plan.
2.   2.01       Objectives of IR in relation to its role in the Transport
Sector.
3.   3.01       The economic background and its influence on the develop-
ment of transport and on Indian Railways.
4.   Traffic Forecasting
4.01      Limitations of 15-year horizon.
4.02      Quality of data and areas of uncertainty.
4.03      Methodology to be adopted in forecasting rail traffic
in relation to other modes.
5.   Transport Strategy for Railways
5.01      Route capacity in relation to forecast rail traffic.
5.02      Operational capacity and means of increasing throughput
including heavier trains, unit train operation, increased
speeds, improved signalling, line-doubling and gauge
conversion.
6.   Passenger Traffic
6.01      Forecast of demand for short, medium and long-distance
passenger traffic by classes of accommodation.
6.02      Problems of overcrowding at peak periods.
6.03      Design of coaching stock.
6.04      Terminal facilities.
6.05      Marketing, commercial factors and fares policies.
6.06      Use of rail cars.
6.07      Road rail coordination.
6.08      Participation of IR in Urban Transport.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
7.   Freight Traffic
7.01      Forecast of demand by commodities.
7.02      Traffic flows and operating patterns.
7.03      Freight terminals; including unit trains, expansion
and load transfer facilities.
7.04      Elimination of terminals where not justified by traffic
volume, and transfer to road distribution.
7.05      Marshalling yards; expansion or closures.
7.06      Use of containers.
7.07      Wagon design, including phased introduction of automatic
couplings and air brakes.
7.08      Marketing, quality of service, commercial aspects, and
rate policies.
8.   Traction
8.01      Demand and resources.
8.0-2     Elimination of steam traction.
8.03      Scope for electrification and diesel traction.
8.04      Optimum rate of introduction and its effect on manufacturing
units.
8.05      Scope for higher power in locomotives and study of economic
factors.
9.   Track Gauge Conversion Policy
To eliminate transshipment costs and delays. Identification
of routes and economic studies.
10.  Upgrading Standards of Track and Bridges
10.1      To permit heavier loading and higher speeds.
10.2      Reduction of maintenance costs by use of mechanized
equipment.
11. Depots and Workshops
Survey of requirements for efficient maintenance of
locomotives, rolling stock and track.
12. Production Units
Assessment of required capacity for manufacture of
locomotives and rolling stock at optimum output.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
13.  Manpower
13.01     Requirements.
13.02     Recruitment and training.
13.03     Wage structures.
13.04     Productivity incentives.
13.05     Effect of mechanization.
13.06     Working environment and staff welfare.
14.  Management Training and Career Planning
15.  Financial Appraisal
15.01     Broad appraisal of effect of all important components
of plan.
15.02     Requirements of capital and foreign exchange requirements.
15.03     Monitoring and control of investments, performance and
planning.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Financial Arrangements between Indian Railways and the Government
1.        The accounts of IR are those of a Government department and are
designed to show the origin and use of public funds. The Government
authorizes all the capital and operating funds required by IR in accordance
with budgets approved by Parliament and acts as IR's treasurer. Bank loans
and IDA credits are channeled through the Government to IR and, insofar as
they relate to additions, they appear in IR's accounts as interest-bearing
permanent capital known as capital-at-charge and become part of the Govern-
ment's investment. The portion of foreign loans obtained to finance
replacements is reimbursed in local currency to the Government by IR as
expenditures are incurred.
2.        Capital expenditures on fixed assets are financed as follows.
Additions are financed entirely by an increase in the Government's capital-
at-charge provided they can be shown to produce a financial return of not
less than 6.75%. Additions which do not meet this requirement, mainly new
minor works, are financed from IR's own resources and are either charged to
revenue if less than Rs 300,000 or are met from net earnings channeled through
the Development Fund which also finances user amenities and welfare works.
Replacements are financed from IR's own resources through the Depreciation
Reserve Fund 1/ at full replacement cost; the amounts set aside to this
fund as a charge to revenue are determined quinquennially (subject to annual
review) on the basis of an estimate of replacement costs during the follow-
ing five years. Although in the past 20 years the Government has collected
some RS 19 billion in dividends from IR, the additional capital provided
by the Government to IR in the same period amounts to about Rs 29 billion.
This contribution of the Government includes the proceeds of substantial
foreign exchange loans and credits (including Bank and IDA). In financing
the entire cost of replacements, IR makes a substantial contribution to total
expenditure on capital account, having provided during the past five years,
1968/69 - 1972/73, some Rs 6 billion 2/ from its own resources, equivalent to
44% of total capital expenditure.
1/   The Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF) functions as a reserve for renewals
of capital assets. Appropriations are made annually to the Fund, the
corresponding charge being described as Appropriation to Depreciation
Reserve Fund under the heading of Operating Expenses. The term "depre-
ciation" should be construed accordingly and operating ratios are calcu-
lated after taking this appropriation into account.
2/   This figure includes temporary loans from the Government of Rs 857
million which should be repaid during succeeding years.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        The financial arrangements between the Government and the Railways
as approved by Parliament are fixed by a Convention Committee which is con-
stituted at five-year intervals. Under these arrangements, dividend on
capital-at-charge has been increased several times, and with effect from
April 1, 1966, has been fixed at 5.5% on capital provided to March 31, 1964,
and 6.0% on capital provided thereafter. (For the three years 1963/64 to
1965/66, the corresponding rates were 4.5% and 5.75% respectively.) These
dividends are payable to the Government even though in a given year the
net earnings are insufficient to cover the dividend. During the years
1966/67-1970/71 IR's net revenue was insufficient to meet the full dividend
payment as well as expenditure chargeable to the Development Fund; consequently,
after using up its own accumulated reserves, IR has had to obtain temporary
loans from the Government which at March 31, 1973, amounted to Rs 857 million.
4.        IR's accounts are audited by the Director of Railway Audit
(Comptroller and Auditor General's Department). The emphasis of this audit
is on ensuring that funds have been applied in accordance with budgetary
allocations approved annually by Parliament. In each railway zone and
manufacturing unit there is a Chief Auditor. These officers are all
qualified (Indian Audit and Accounts Service). In addition, each railway
division has an Audit Officer who reports to his Chief Auditor who in turn
reports to the Director of Railway Audit. The observations and reports of
the Chief Auditors form the basis of an annual report prepared by the Director
of Railway Audit drawing attention to a wide variety of matters which are
reviewed and investigated by the Public Accounts Committee which, in turn,
publishes a report of its discussions, recommendations, and findings. The
detailed auditor's Report and the proceedings of the Public Accounts Com-
mittee are exhaustive and satisfactory.
5.        Internal audit is provided for through accounts inspection wings
for each railway zone and division reporting to the appropriate general
manager. Railway Board HQ also has an audit inspection staff reporting to
the Director of Accounts and to the Financial Commissioner. Traveling
inspectors of accounts in each zone perform station audit and stores veri-
fication work. These arrangements are satisfactory.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Criticisms and Recommendations
Made on Accounting Matters
in the First Report of the Railway Convention Committee 1971
Paragraph 2.17 The technique of assessing depreciation should
be refined. No objection to present method for assets
acquired up to 1969/70 but for assets acquired sub-
sequently provision for depreciation should be on a
scientific and rational basis.
Recommendation:
(a) The Government should constitute a Working Group to
examine this matter and report to next Convention Com-
mittee so that depreciation provision in Fifth Plan can
be assessed on new basis.
(b)  Information about total assets and depreciation implications
should be mentioned in Budget papers for information of
Parliament.
(c) Railway Board to undertake Study to determine whether a
separate Renewal Reserve Fund should be created to provide
for inflationary and improvement elements in the cost of
assets.
Paragraph 5,.17 Capital of IR includes a fairly large element of
over-capitalization. This is a complex matter and any
restructuring may have repercussions in other sectors.
Recommendation:
Matter to be studied by an Expert Group and their recommendations
submitted to next Convention Committee.
Paragraph 7.08 The mass bf data given in IR Budget papers does not serve
the intended purpose of keeping Parliament and the public
properly informed. The Committee was impressed by the Annual
Report of British Railways and the concise manner of presenta-
tion of their financial results. There is a need for IR to
present meaningful data in a simple and lucid manner - so that
future investments may be judged in their proper perspective.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Recommendation:
Appointment of a Task Force including qualified outside experts
to review Budget documents with a view to rationalizing their contents.
Terms of Reference to include the question of performance budgeting.
Paragraph 7.33 IR to Report to next Convention Committee the progress
made in further refining accounting procedures.
Paragraph 7.48 The Committee consider that no effective system of modern
management accountancy has been developed by IR and that the
operational and financial controls exercised are inadequate and
antiquated.
Recommendation:
The Task Force (see 7.08) should also critically examine
accounting and administrative procedures with a view to providing manage-
ment accountancy as an aid to management decisions at all appropriate levels.
Paragraph 7.51 The Committee consider the Task Force should examine the
feasibility of using the services of outside Cost Accountants,
Chartered Accountants and Management Accountants in the interest
of operational efficiency of the Railways.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Project Evaluation Procedures
A.  Description of Present Procedures
1.        The Railways have a well-defined system of planning, evaluation
and sanctioning of projects which has developed over the years. This is
contained in various codes and policy directives issued from time to time
by IR.
2.        Within the framework of the Five-Year Plan, the Zonal Railways
prepare their tentative proposals for works under various Plan-heads and
sponsor them for inclusion in the Annual Plan at an appropriate time.
3.        According to existing instructions, all works costing above
Rs 50,000 each are required to be included in the Annual Works Program
which is submitted by the Zonal Railways to the Board. Works costing up to
Rs 50,000 each are finalized by the General Managers against the lump sum
amount allotted to the Zonal Railways.
4.        The Zonal Railways are required to send their schemes costing
Rs 1 million or above, comprehensively worked out with full details in-
cluding financial implications, by April 30 of each year for obtaining the
administrative approval of the Board for including them in the Railways
Preliminary Works Program. In the Board's Office these proposals are
examined by the concerned directorate (Planning, Executive Directorate
concerned and Finance) in order to see that there is a prima facie case
for considering the inclusion of these works, depending upon the develop-
ment of traffic and availability of resources. This preliminary scrutiny
is to ensure that works unlikely to be approved are not included even in
the Preliminary Works Program for consideration at the Board's level during
the Works Program Meetings.
5.        In April each year, the Zonal Railways are asked to indicate their
requirement of funds, based on the works which they propose to include in the
Works Program. In June each year, the Board conveys to each Zonal Railway
the financial ceiling within which the Works Program has to be. framed by the
railway. The distribution is done by Plan head as well as separately
for works in progress and new works depending upon the inter-railway
priorities. The Zonal Railways have then to modify and adjust their works
programs within this ceiling limit.
6.        All proposals for works estimated to cost approximately Rs 2 million
or above have to be appraised by an appropriate survey conducted by a study
team constituted for the specific purpose at appropriate level. These survey



ANNEX 7
Page 2
reports undergo a detailed scrutiny by the concerned directorates including
Finance. It is only after the conclusions of the survey team are accepted
and the project is found financially justified that the proposal is approved
for inclusion in the annual works program.
7.        The Preliminary Works Program for the following year is submitted
by the Zonal Railways to the Board by about September 15, or such earlier
date as laid down by the Board. As stated earlier, all works costing above
Rs 50,000 are included, distinguishing modifications in works in progress
from new works. Proper justification as well as financial appraisal for
each work has to be given in the Preliminary Works Program together with
the comments of the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer.
8.        After scrutiny of The Preliminary Works Program proposals in the
Board, a meeting is held between the Board and the concerned Zonal Railways
during October/November each year at which the proposals are discussed and
only those which are considered finally justified and complete in all respects
are permitted to be included in the Final Works Program of the following year.
On the basis of the decisions taken at the Works Program Meetings, the Zonal
Railways submit their Final Works Programs in December.
9.        All finally accepted proposals are then included in the budget pro-
posals (the "Pink Book") and these proposals are presented to the Parliament
along with the Annual railwa-? budget for acceptance; for works costing above
Rs 2 million each, the Railway Minister's prior approval is obtained. It
is only after the Parliament gives its acceptance that approval of the various
proposals included in the "Pink Book" is considered valid and the railways
are permitted to go ahead wit h the execution of the works. The estimates
for works up to Rs 2 million each are then finally sanctioned by the General
Manager, while for works costing above Rs 2 million each the estimates have
to be sanctioned by the Board.
10.       While the above procedure is followed in respect of schemes to be
included in the regular Works Program provision also exists for sanction of
really urgent schemes as 'out of turn' works during the year. The Railways
have to bring out clearly the urgency and purpose of each scheme and certify
that the proposal meets the objective fully and the scope and costs of the
project have been arrived at after the fullest possible investigation in-
cluding financial implications. Urgent line capacity works costing up to
Rs 0.5 million each can be sanctioned by the General Manager, within an
overall allotment of about Rs 7.5 million in a year of the purpose. Works
costing above Rs 0.5 million each have be referred to the Board for sanc-
tion. For works costing above Rs 2 million each, Minister's prior approval
is obtained and Parliaments approval obtained through Supplementary Grants.
When Parliament is not in session, the Financial Commissioner can operate the
Contingency Fund of India for sanction of these works, which is regularized
subsequently through Supplementary Demands placed before the Parliament.
11.       This procedure for sanction of 'out of turn' works is to ensure
that the movement of traffic is not hampered when unforeseen situations
develop.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
B. Refinements in the Technique of Project Appraisal
12.       The Economic Unit of the Railway Board has been continuously making
efforts to improve on the methodology of project appraisal in the light of
the latest research done on the subject and the guidelines acceptable to the
World Bank. One important improvement in this respect is the increase in
the number of feasible and efficient alternatives considered for railway
projects.
13.       Further refinements in the techniques of project appraisal are
being carried out within following areas:
(a)  the fitting of regression models and trends for fore-
casting of traffic have been computerized;
(b)  tn origin/destination passenger travil matrix is being
prepared through the computerized processing of ticket
sale data; and
(c) computer programs will soon be devised for calculating
the internal rate of return and carrying out sensitivity
analysis with respect to crucial parameters of the project;
manual computation as practiced until now, admittedly, has
its own limitations in this respect.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Principal Items Included in the Project
1.   Locomotives and Rolling Stock  (cost:  Rs 2,145 million)
The traffic forecasts indicated by the draft Fifth Five-Year Plan
show a substantial increase in all traffic, for which it will be necessary
to provide new locomotives, coaches and wagons using the full capacity
of IR workshops and of private wagon manufacturers throughout the country.
Total construction of new locomotives and rolling stock to enter service in
the period January 1, 1974, to March 1975 is planned for:
(a)  Locomotives
Mainline Diesel Locomotives (all gauges)   -  212
Diesel Shunters                              -   66
Electric Locomotives                         -   98
(During this period about 180 steam locomotives will
be scrapped, leaving about 8,900 in service.)
(b)  Wagons
In terms of 4-wheelers 27,100 wagons are planned for con-
struction and to be in service by March 1975. Emphasis
is being placed on the operation of unit train loads,
carrying bulk materialsu with mechanized loading and
unloading. The design of new wagons will provide for the
use of automatic coupling devices, and where intended to
operate in closed circuit working will be equipped with
air brakes.
(c) Electric Multiple Unit Coaching Stock
Construction of 306 electric multiple unit cars is
intended, to improve the present serious over-
crowding of suburban trains in peak-hour services.
Design will incorporate features to give increased
passenger capacity.
(d) Mainline Passenger Stock
Construction of 1,674 coaches is required to provide greater
capacity to meet the steady growth of passenger traffic.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.   Workshops and Machinery  (cost:  Rs 218 million)
Increased workshop capacity is one of the major aims of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan, to provide for more efficient maintenance of the increasing
number of wagons and coaches, as well as for the maintenance of diesel locos
in areas where they are displacing steam traction. IR also plan to improve
production capacity for coach building, and to install new plant for the
manufacture of wheels and axles, and of electric traction motors and other
electrical components, thereby reducing the large quantities of imported
equipment now necessary to meet their needs. An investment of about
Rs 2,000 million is foreseen to be necessary in the Fifth Five-Year Plan
period. It is proposed to invest Rs 374 million in the period of the present
project, on workshop improvement and plant of highest priority.
3.   Track Works, Bridges, Signalling, Communications, and Electrical Works
on Line (cost: Rs 1,807 million)
Track renewals include about 1,300 km on broad gauge lines and
400 km on meter gauge. On routes carrying the densest traffic, long welded
rails will be installed on concrete sleepers, to reduce maintenance costs and
increase axle load potential. Track works also include doubling of about
300 km of single route and the conversion of about 300 km of meter gauge
route to broad gauge. Provision is also made for the remodeling of a number
of marshalling yards and sidings. Bridgeworks will replace life-expired
and weak structures and will remove speed restrictions and cater for heavier
loading. Electrical works include lighting of depots and marshalling yards
and emergency generator sets for signalling and other essential purposes.
The effect of all works in this category will be to improve operating
efficiency and increase productivity of staff and rolling stock.
4.   Electrification (cost:  Rs 193 million)
Work is intended to complete electrification on about 450 km of
route in extension of priority routes already being converted to electric
traction.
5.   New Lines  (cost:  Rs 164 million)
Work necessary to complete construction of new lines in hand,
totaling about ',50 km of new track.  These include connections with coal
mines and factories from which heavy traffic is expected.
6.   Other Works, Services an6 Inventories (cost:  Rs 197 million)
This category i.ncldes improvements to railway passenger stations,
to alleviate conditions of overcrowding, extension of container services,
and special inventories for wVh.__ import is necessary.



.=NEX 9
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWKIFl AIflMt PtOJICT
Description of Materials and CcqOanente no ba Procured
from Proceeds or te Pros   IDA Credit '
Value in
US$ Millions
Category                   Equivalent                       Description of Materials and Co ponenta
l.Components and materials
(including steel)required
for the manufacture of.
1.1 Electric Locomotives                 Tap changers, traction motors and cowponenta therefor 'components for
transformers, resistances, relays, ccKponents for ailloon rectifiers,
circuit breakers, gears and pinions, lines, ceemtetors, esoponenta
for pmntographa, steel, wheels nd axles, etc.
1.2 Diesel Locomotives                   Traction equipmet, generators, components for mgiuea and chassis like
crankshafts, tubo-ohrgers, comprasor., axhanoters, piotons, etc.,
E-type control equipmont, governors, steel, whels and axlce, etc.
1.3 Electrical Multiple          49.50   Componeots and materiala for traction equipmnt for motor coach, roller
Units                                bearings, wheels and axles, electro-pneumatic brake equipment, silent
blocks, components for air blast circuit breaker, oopper bearing stee.'
platea end sheets, forebeatoe sheets, components for pantographs, wheels
and axles, etc.
1.  Coaches                             Wheels and axles, roller bearings, raw asbestos, staiules  steel plates,
copper bearing steel plates and sheets.
1.5 Wagons               ,               Steel sheets and plates, wheel sets, roller bearng axle boxes, air
brake, etc.
2. Equipment and material for       1.50  Tie tampers, track recording cars, ultrasonic fte  detctors, sleeper
line capacity works,                    handling equipnt, rectifiers and asociated ueits, teting
electrical works, etc.                  equipment, ral  and accessoriee, etc.
3. Rails                           2.50
4. Equipment for signalling         2.00    Points machlnes, relas and panels for route req ilmterlocdng,
and telecommunication                   tokenless block instruments, cables, retardera, track and engine
schemes                                  devices for autematic train control, transreevivrs, antena
towers, channelling and other equipment for miorowave, relays,
etc., for signalling work.
5. Equipment and material
for electrification schemes      2.00    Electrolytic copper bars, telecommmuication cables and train control
equipment, sub-atation and switching station equipments, insulatora,
fittings, etc.
6. Plant and Machinery              2.00    Wheel lathes, hydraulic wheel presses, ultrasonie flaw detectora,
axle turning and burnishing lathes, hydraulic chain/draw gear
testing machine, draw out shapers for manufacture of tracton
motors, special purpose boring machines, Jig boring machines,
copying lathe for machining of axles, cojatator turning lathes
and plmnt and machnery for wheel and axle plnt.
7. Other railway equipment          4.50    Non-ferrous wetals like tin and lead, wheels, tires and axles and
and material; technical                  other miscellaneous items mainly for rolling stock.
services approved by the
Association
8. Non-competitive procurement
of components for:
8.1 Diesel Locomotives                    Rectifiers, control equipment, crankahafta, cylinder head castings,
16.00    turbochargers, compreasora, fuel booster ponpa and piston.
8.2 Electric Locomotives                  Components for airblast circuit breakers, tap changers, traction
motor, *d.tdagear, tranaformere, rectifiers, gears md pinion.,
brake equipment and co pressors.
8.3 Electric Multiple Units               Mainly tractias and brake oquip ent.
80.00
November 5, 1973






ANNE 10
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year               Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                  at the End of Quarter
(US$ millions)
1973/74
March 31, 1974                           16
June 30, 1974                            31
1974/75
September 30, 1974                       48
December 31, 1974                        64
Harch 31, 1975                           80






ANNE II
Page I
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. General
1.        A review of IRts own investment procedures is given in Annex 7.
ER has instituted discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis for most projects
valued at Rs 2 million or more and has required, in the case of traffic
related works of this size, that a market survey be prepared and in some
cases (such as marshalling yards) that a work study be made to ensure that
the execution of the investment does not involve any administrative or
technical constraints. In addition, for any project costing Rs 50,000 or
more a financial and technical evaluation has to be carried out indicating
its feasibility before it can be included in the investment program.
Finally, a project may also be studied by IR's own Economic Unit which will
apply a discounted cash flow technique with economic prices. In accordance
with the agreement reached during the negotiations for the previous Credit
(280-IN), the methodology for appraisal of investment projects has been
progressively improved (Annex 7), although further work is required because
of the complexity and size of IR's investment program. Altogether each
year's program is made up of over 2,000 separate items each costing over
Rs 500,000 (about US$67,000 equivalent) in various stages of completion
and representing a multitude of works, with about 200 major items aggregating
about 102 of the total program. A substantial portion (70% to 80%) of each
year's replacements and outlays on items started previously on investments
in unremunerative services (staff quarters, user's amenities) is not analyzed
separately.
2.        In this appraisal, no attempt has been made to justify each of the
investment items separately because of: (i) the large number involved;
(ii) the project consists essentially of the first financial year (FY 1974/75)
of the Fifth Plan still to be finalized; and (iii) because of the fact that
the now proposed credit represents a "bridging" operation until the rail-
ways first Corporate Plan (paras 3.26-3.27) has been completed and an agree-
ment has been reached between the Government and the Association on the
policies to be followed for the transport sector (para 2.10). It has,
however, been considered possible to make an evaluation of the project as
a whole in economic terms. The evaluation which has been carried out for
this purpose is believed to indicate the right order of magnitude of the
project feasibility; the results (Table 17) should therefore not be inter-
preted as exact indicators of the economic return.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        The economic evaluation has been carried out by separating cost-
reducing investments from capacity-increasing investments as described in
para 6.03. The evaluation has been based on data provided by IR, previous
appraisal documents, and other economic studies related to the railways as
indicated in connection with the description of calculation procedures which
follow. The evaluation excludes an investment of Rs 0.2 billion in
unremunerative services (staff quarters, etc.) because this investment is
not related to operational performance of the railways and should therefore
be justified on other than economic grounds.
B.   Benefits from Cost-Reducing Investments
4.        Cost-reducing investments in railway facilities and rolling stock
will in 1974/75 handle about 15 million tons of freight traffic; in ton-km
this represents a traffic volume of 10.1 billion, with an average transport
distance of 670 km. In addition, the passenger traffic handled in 1974/75
is estimated at 7.2 billion pass-km.
5.        This traffic will be subject to an immediate cost reduction, which
has been calculated as follows:
(a) present average financial operating (incl.
depreciation) costs: 1/
-    Rs 0.0382 per net ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0337 per pass-km.
(b) financial long-run marginal operating costs are about
70% of the average costs thus: 2/
-    Rs 0.0267 per net ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0236 per pass-km.
(c) the financial marginal costs have been adjusted to
reflect economic costs by excluding taxes on fuel
and using a shadow price of 150% for foreign exchange.
The combined effect of these two factors (taxes result
in downward adjustment; foreign exchange in upward).
is that the financial cost for fuel has been reduced
1/   Calculated on basis of IR cost statistics of 1972/73 as a weighted
average for present traction (steam, diesel, electric).
2/   R. K. Koshal, Statistical Cost Analysis - Indian Railways, University
of Rochester: New York, 1968. In financiAl calculations IR considers
the long-run variable costs to be 85% of the average costs; this
percentage is however believed to be too high.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
by 50%. As the fuel costs represent about 35% 1/ of
the financial long-run marginal operating costs the
corresponding in original economic costs have been
calculated to:
-    Rs 0.0220 per net ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0195 per pass-km.
(d)  the total present cost of carrying the 10.1 billion ton-
km and 7.2 billion pass-km has been calculated on this
basis to:
9
- freight traffic: 10.1 x 0.0220 x 1099 - Rs 222 million
-    pass. traffic:    7.2 x 0.0195 x 10  - Rs 140 million
Total                         Rs 362 million
These costs are expected to increase annually by 3% if no
investments in replacements and modernization are carried out.
(e)  the cost-reducing investments result in the use of diesel
and electric traction in carrying the above traffic instead
of mixed traction as at present. The average financial
operating costs (incl. depreciation) for diesel/electric
traction are: 2/
-    Rs 0.0229 per ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0202 per pass-km.
(f)  calculated on the same basis as above, the financial long-
run marginal costs have been established at:
-    Rs 0.0160 per net ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0141 per pass-km.
(g)  the corresponding economic costs have been calculated on
basis of a 50% share of fuel costs of the financial costs
and by application of an adjustment factor of 0.5 to reflect
the economic cost of fuel and shadow price of foreign exchange.
On this basis the reduced long-run economic marginal costs
have been established at:
-    Rs 0.0120 per net ton-km.
-    Rs 0.0106 per pass-km.
1/   R  K. Kosha., tDit.
2/   IR cos t si..f a...



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(h) the total reduced economic cost for carrying the 10.1 billion
ton-km of freight traffic and 7.2 billion pass-km have, on
the above basis, been calculated to:
9
-    freight traffic:    10.1 x 0.0120 x 109   = Rs 121 million
-    passenger traffic:   7.2 x 0.0106 x 10    - Rs  76 million
Total                                   Rs 197 million
(i)  the cost savings in 1974/75 have been calculated as the
difference between (d) and (h):
9
-    freight traffic:    10.1 x 0.0100 x 109   = Rs 101 million
-    passenger traffic:   7.2 x 0.0089 x 10    - Rs  64 million
Total                                   Rs 165 million
6.        These cost savings of Rs 165 million in 1974/75 have been
calculated to increase gradually to Rs 210 million in 1978/79, as indicated
in Table 17.  With an investment cost of Rs 2.0 billion and an economic
life of 25 years this would indicate an ER of about 12%; the first year
benefits (FYB) would be about 8% of the investment cost.
C. Benefits from Capacity-Increasing Investments
7.        The investments in additional capacity which amount to Rs 2.6 bil-
lion for the project has been estimated to provide for 6 million tons of
additional freight traffic, practically all bulk, in 1974/75. With an
average lead of 670 km this would imply a freight traffic volume of 4.0 billion
ton-km. The additional passenger traffic to be accommodated has been ex-
cluded from the evaluation because IR's cost calculations indicate that there
would not be any cost savings compared with the second best alternative,
road transport. This applies particularly for short distance traffic which
already represents a major part of total IR passenger traffic.
8.        The benefits from the capacity-increasing investments have been
calculated as the difference between the costs of carrying the additional
traffic by railways and the second best alternative, which most frequently
is road transport.  In the previous appraisal (280-IN) the cost difference
was estimated at Rs 0.09 per ton-km in favor of railways.  With an average
economic operating cost of Rs 0.035 per net ton-km for railways this cost
advantage could be assumed to be even higher because it is most unlikely that
the economic cost of road transDort would be as low as RB  0.125 per net ton-
km (USd1.6 equivalent) except under the most favorable road conditions and
by use of the most modern tra or- equipment -- a situation which does not
characterize the present        y seccor in India. The estimate has however
been used also in this rep.   zrder to avoid an overestimate of benefits.



ANEX 11
Page 5
9.        The economic benefits have on the above basis been calculated to
be Rs 360 million in 1974/75 remaining constant over the economic life of
25 years; no further traffic has been assumed to be accommodated by the
additional capacity provided. With an investment of PA 2.6 billion and an
economic life of 25 years these benefits would indicate an ER of about 13%
and an FYB of about 14%.






TAME 1
INIIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWKEYTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Allocation of Public Investments by Modes of Transport
Fourth  l-9691 70-1973/74) and Ffth Plans (1974/75-9 78/ 9)
Fourth Plan                    Fifth Plan3*4
Transport 9ub-sector         1969/70-197  7                 1974/15-19 7879
Rs. billion , ,                Rs. billion         %
Railways                       14.2 (l4.2)i/    48.1              23.8          43.4
(46.1)
Highways snd Road Transport    9.6  (9.7)        32.5             18.0          32.8
(31.-5)
Ports, Inland Waterways        .2.1  (2.6)        7.1              2.5           4.6
(8.4)
Shipping                        1.6  (2.4)       5.5               2.0           3.7
(7.8)
Aviation, Airports              2.0  (1.9)        6.8              2.5           4.6
(6.2)
Pipelines
Metropolitan Area                                                   6.0         10.9
(Transport.)
Total for Transport            29.5 (30.8)      100.0             54.8         100.0
_ (100.0)....                         ___(_ _
Total Plan                    167.7                              354.0
1/  Figures in parenthesis indicate the most likely actual expenditure during the
plan period.
2/ Included under the Industrial Sector.
3/ Metropolitan Area Transport Systems were in the Fourth Plan included in the
investment programs for railways and highways.
4/  Preliminary estimates based on Plan Outline.
November 1973



INDIA
APARAISAL OF A TIELFIT tAILWAY PROJECT
IlR Operating Perforance Averaes - 1967/68-1972/73
BROAD CAUCE                                                                                   EKCAG
1967-68       1968-69           A-70       1970-1        1971-72        1972-73               1967-68       1968-69        1969-7ER ( 970-7             1971-72        1972-73
1. Percent.g. of serviceable
lococtives
stem                                         85.52         86.00          85.76         85.48         85.57          85.6                  86.20         87.59          87.02         86.79          86.79          86.2
Diesel                                       90.48         8SS88    U      8.27         86.22         85.80          85.6                  89.13         89.71          893.30        2-.0           88.35          88.6
Etectrif                                     81.65         81.41         83.04          79.28         81.19          79.3                  91.10         88.20          92.90         92.20          90.00          87.0
2. Percentage of serviciable passenger
vehicles                                       87.61         85.74          86.60         85.70         87.10          87.5                  91.35         88.15          88.10          88.30         88.80          88.6
3. Percentage of serviceable wgocs                 95.66         96.00          95.59         94.89         95.68          95.7                  96.27         95.97          95.84          95.45         96.17          96.1
4.  Ungi.-Km per day per engine in  sa
Paseenger
gtem                                           257           256            253           250           254           243                    225           227            229            228           227           226
Diesol                                         623           658            670           669           665           672                    416           485            446            383           390           456
Blectric                                       34h           379            416           437           437           432                    379           394            374            376           382           379
Freight
stem                                           124           121            123           121           119           114                    135           137            137            '33           '32           130
Ditel                                          361           361            356           347           343           330                    282           281            283            280           272           273
Electric                                       335           349            340           316           308           306                    197           233            254            245           247           254
5. tres toncege per goods train                    1.484         1.514          1.496         1.507         1.519         1.545                    718           734            734            753           768           787
6.  Not to_aa   per goods train                      724           739            721           737            749          770                    348           358            362            378            391          407
7. Nagon-Ne per  agon day                           71.5          72.5           75.6          77.4          74.0          74.7                   56.8          58.8           60.1           58.4          58.5          60.2
8.  Ngt too Wa Per wgn  day                          889           905            916           906            935          939                    474           503            522            524            540 63
9. Cross ton go per soods train hour              22.967        24.399         24.3e5        25,011        25,652        25.934                  8.979         9.578          9.963         10.212        '0.574        11.084
10. Ilut te Ya par gseds tratn huc                '2.433         13.200         13.036        13.492        13.946        14,182                  4.983         S,340          5.617         35824          6,097         6 460
11. Pnmctuality of passenger traims (.              84.76         83.41         84.72          82.33         82.10          85.5                 86.90          85.61          85.71         87.41          91.22          89.9
12. Average wagon load *in tonsl                     18.1          18.2           17.9          17.9          18.0          18.2                   11.6          11.7           11.8           12.1          12.5          12.5
13. l'ocootive  tiliatimn (number of hours
worked wer day per m.gine avalable for
use - 1)
Stea                                          68.8          48.3           49.6          49.6          50.4          49.8                   44.6          44.6           44.6           45.0          44.2            4
Diese1                                        80.0          80.4           79.6          78.3          78.7          79.0                   73.3          74.6           72.5           73.3          74.2          u6.6
lletric                                       70.4          76.3           75.8          72.9           73.3         71.1                   48.3          50.8           49.6           49.2          51.3          50.3
All traction                                  52.5          53.3           55.0          35.0          56.3          56.0                   "6.3          46.3           46.7           47.           46.7          45.7
14. Average *peed of *1.1 goods trains
(Km par be-e
stem                                          12.2          12.2           12.1          12.0          11.9          11.7                   12.9          13.3           13.5           13.1          13.4
Dieel                                         23.4          23.2           22.9          22.9          22.8          22.0                   18.0          18.2           18.8           18.7          18.2          19.7
Ll9etric                                      24.5          23.6           25.5          25.2          24.2          23.5                   18.1          19.9           19.4           18.9    -     18.5          19.3
All traction                                  16.8          17.5           17.7          17.9           18.2         18.0                   13.9          14.4           14.9           14.7           14.9         15 2
15. Avsrae  speed of thrsugh goods trains
(Wm por bourl
Item                                          15.4          15.6           15.5          15.9           16.2         15.9                  1I.6           15.9           16.2           15.7          15.9          16.0
OteagI                                        23.5          23.3           23.0          23.0          23.0          22.3                   1R.3           18.4          19.0           8.8            18.2         18.9
n ectrie.                                     24.8          23.8           25.8          8.3           24.3          23.6                   18.1          19.9           19.4           18.9           1815         19.3
AUI traction                                  20.2          71.0           21.1          21 6           21.8         21.3                   16.6           17.0          17.5           17.3           17.2          17.7
1S. A         leadef a tor of 8ed   int. K            581           382            385           615           641           IA                     395            411           409            422            447           VA
17. %'4sn tunround (days)                            f2.6          12.7           12.7          23.3           13.5         13.6                   9.54          9.U9           9.41           '0.1           10.6         1!.7
July. 1973



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Investments During Fourth Five-Year Plan - 1969/70-1973/74
Rs millions
Eleventh Railway Project
Original        Revised                             (1971/72-1973/74)
Plan            Plan             Actual          Original         Revised
Estimates       Estimates        Spending        Estimate         Estimate
Rolling Stock                           5,310            5,680           6,003           3,265            3,992
Workshop and Sheds                        250              300              209             185             145
Machinery and Plant                       200              250              221             136             162
Track Renewals (Net)                    1,800            1,800            1,605          1,328            1,132
Bridge Works                              260              290              296            199              217
Line Capacity Works                     1,940            2,340           2,233           1,238            1,532
SLgnalling and Safety                     470              490             602             298              443
Electrification                           720              730             676             477              440
Other Electrical Works                    120              ISO              L1a             71              1Z6
New Lines                                 660             .860             647             402              399
Staff Welfare                             150              200              150             96               98
Staff Quarters                            300              360              310             182             187
Users' Amenities                          200              200              199             113              117
Other Specified Works                     100              100              110              55               72
Road Services                             100              100              135              50              92
Inventories                               150              150              605               -
12,750          14,000           14,184           8,095            9,154   j
Authorized Increase:                       1,250           Expected Increase:                1,059    k
1/  These figures include estimated figures for 1973/74 and provisional figures for 1972/73.
Source: Indian Railways.
November 5, 1973



INDli,
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Investment Program 1973/74 and for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
Rs millions
Fifth Five Year Plan                                                       Total for
1973/74       * 1974/75        1975/76        1976/77        1977/78        1978/79         Total              1973/74 and
Items                          (Budget)                                                                                    Fifth Plan         1974/75
Rolling Stock                    1,522           1,765          1,850          1,880           1,700         1,805           9,000              3,287
Workshop and Sheds                  53              108            250           302             400           440           1,500                161
Machinery and Plant                 43               86             75            75              80            84             400                129
Track Renewals (Net)               451             480            360            370             400           390           2,000                931
Bridge Works                        99             104             110           126             130           130             600                203
Line Capacity Works                558             686            900          1,040           1,155         1,219           5,000              1,244
Signalling and Safety              115             162             190           250             250           248           1,100                277
Electrification                    170             151             220           259             270           300           1,200                321
Other Electrical Works              40               58             35            35              37            35              200                98
New Lines                          128             132             170           228             240           230           1,000                260
Staff Welfare                       33              41             40             40              40            39             200                 74
Staff Quarters                      64              85              70            75              80            90             400                149
Users' Amenities                    41               31             40            40              43            46              200                72
Other Specified Works               26              31              40            40              50            39              200                57
Road Services                     -                  30             50            70              75            75              300                30
Inventories                       (481             100            100            100             100           100              500                52
3,295           4,050          4,500         4,930           5,050         5,270           23,800             7,345
1/ Funds applied for Rs 70 million.
Source: Indian Railways.
November 5, 1973



TABLE 5
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFH RAILWAY PROJECT
IRl Revenue anC Expenditure Accounts - 1967/68 - 1972/73
1967/68     1968/69      1969/70      1970171      1971/72      1972/73
Re millions
Gross Operating Revenue
Passenger                                        2,526        2,651        2,789        2,955        3,201         3,436
Other Coaching                                      395         450          481          621          694            656
Goods                                            5,028        5,62F        5,943        6,157        6,753         7, 209
Sundries                                            232         259           300         334          318            323
Total Revenue                          8,181        8,988        9,513       10,067       10,966        11,624
Operating Expenses
Administration                                     664           711          752         830          876            920
Repairs and Maintenance                          1,901        2,090        2,238        2,485        2,727         3,098
Operating Staff                                  1,239        1,336        1,414        1,574        1,758         1,835
Fuel                                             1,278        1,391        1,511        1,469        1,559         1, 624
Operating Other than Staff and Fuel                 318          357          375         390          405            441
Miscellaneous Expenses                              262          255         322          312          343            346
Labor Welfare                                      220          227          237          263          285            302
Working Expenses                       5,882        6,367       6,849         7,323        7,953         8,566
Appropriations to:
Depreciation Reserve Fund                          950          950          950        1,000        1,050         1,100
Pension Fund                                        99           99           99          149          114            160
Total Operatina Expenses              6,931         7,416        7,898       8,472        9,117         9,826
Net Revenue from Operations                         1,250       1,572        1,615        1,595        1,849          1,798
Charges to Revenue of a Capital Nature;
Open Line Works                                     93            77           73           68          73             71
Miscellaneous Transactions                          57           67           76           79           85             83
Net Revenue                                         1,100       1,428         1,466       1,448        1,691         1,644
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge 1/                   1,415        1,507        1,564 2/     1,646 2/     1,513 3       1,615 3/
Net Surplus/(Deficit)                              (315)          (79)         (98)       (198)          178             29
Operating Ratio                                     84.7         82.5         83.0         84.2         83.1           84.5
Rate of Return on Average Capital-at-Charge (7)   3.8             4.7           4.7         4.4          4.8            4.5
1/ Rate of Dividend on Capital-at-Charge:
On Capital Provided by Government
(a) To March 31. 1964            (b) After March 31, 1964
1965/66                            4.57                        5.757
1966/67 and later years            5.5%                        6.07.
2/   Dividend relief in respect of these two years amounting to Re 363 million was subsequently granted and applied
in reduction of temporary loans outstanding as at April 1, 1972.
3/   These figures are after taking account of certain changes in the method of calculating dividend.  The effect of
these changes has been to reduce the dividend by about Re 200 million a year as compared with the method
applicable in earlier years.
Source: Indian Railways and I.D.A. Staff.
November 5, 1973



TABLE 6
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Balance Sheet March 31, 1973 (Provisional Figures)
Assets                                                     Rs millions
Fixed Assets                                                  43,002
Inventories
45.,897
Receivables                                                     1, 941
Cash and Deposits with Government:
Cash                                     371
Deposits                               2,938                 3,309
Total Assets
Capital and Reserve Funds
Investment Financed from :
Government Capital-at-Charge                                37,263
Government Temporary Loans        DF     851
RRF         -                  857
Railway Sources:
Depreciation Reserve Fund              2,619
Development Fund                       4,072
Revenue                                1,943
8,634
Less Portion Financed by
Temporary Loans from Government           S57                7,777
45,897
Railway Fands
Depreciation Reserve Fund              1,746
Revenue Reserve Fund                       3
Development Fund                          19
Pension Fund                           1,17O                 2,938
Current Liabilities                                              2,312
Total Capital and Reserves:                       51,147
Source: Indian Railways.
Liovember 5, Iy73



NOTES ON TABLE 6
Page 1
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Balance Sheet - March 31, 1973
1.   Fixed Assets
The value of fixed assets shown in the balance sheet is their
original cost but the additional cost of like-for-like replacements over
their original cost (the inflationary element) is charged against DRF. The
full cost of all assets including the additional cost of replacements is
Rs 52,168 million. Included in this total are works-in-progress, land and
other non-depreciable assets amounting to Rs 7,990 million. The book value
of depreciable assets is:
Rs millions
Total fixed assets                          52,168
Less:  Non-depreciable assets                7,990
Cost of depreciable assets                  44,178
2.   Depreciation Reserve Fund
This balance represents cumulative contributions to date less
(a) assets withdrawn from service and (b) the full cost of replacements.
3.   Inventories
These are financed from Capital-at-Charge.
4.   Investment Financed from Railway Sources
These are the published figures representing amounts the Railways
should have provided from their own sources over the years toward the
capital investment programs. In recent years net earnings have been in-
sufficient to meet the full cost of expenditure charged to the Development
Fund and the full dividend payment due to the Government. Consequently in
order to meet these short-falls, Ik has drawn temporary loans from the
Central Government to ensure that its funds did not become overdrawn.
The outstanding temporary loans at March 31, 1973, which have been drawn to
augment the fund balances are shown in IR's balance sheet only by way of
note and are as follows:



NOTES Ct TABLE 6
Page 2
Corresponding
Development Fund          Rs millions           Figures, March 1974
(Estimated)
Loans drawn in:
1967/68                  112
1968/69                  141
1969/70                  181
1970/71                  216
1971/72                  217
1972/73                  157                    1,079
Repaid:
1972/73 /a              (167)
857
Revenue Reserve Fund
Loans drawn in:
1969/70                   89
1970/71                  219
Repaid in:
1971/72                 (112)
1972/73 /a              (196)
nil                   1,271
Total Temporary Loans    3
Obtained from the      )
Central Government at )   857                     2,350
March 31, 1973         )
Excluding Accrued      )
Interest               )
/a   Repaid by application of dividend relief for 1969/70 and 1970/71.
The above figures are based on provisional results for 1972/73 and
estimated results from operations during 1973/74 taking account of the
recommendations of the Third Pay Cosmission. The balance sheet figures
have been adjusted to show the outstanding loans.
5.        Development Fund - finances expenditure of a capital nature for:
(a)  Operating improvements costing over Rs 300,000 each;
(b)  users' amenities  :-respective of their cost; and
(c)  staff ameni$ies cos::-.'h  more than Rs 25,000 each.



NOTES ON TABLE 6
Page 3
6.   Items Financed from Revenue are:
(a) Operating improvements costing up to Rs 300,000 each; and
(b) staff amenities costing less than Rs 25,000 each.
7.        Provident Fund
The balance on the fund at March 31, 1973, Rs 4,973 million,
is not shown in the above balance sheet, since these funds are held in a
special deposit account specifically for paying benefits to amployees.
Contributions to the fund are charged to operating expenses.






.'.PPRP3-_ A0L- 1 TWELFTh -A.- AT PROjEC-i
IR Source and Appl;cation of Funds - 1973/74-197B/79
Total for
Fifth Plan
1974/75-
1973/74               1974/75        1975/76        197627          1977/78        1978/79               1978/79
Rs millions
Source of Funds
Net Revenue from Operations                               455                  1,288           1,693          2,120           2,290          2,480                 9,871
Less Dividend on Capital-at-Charge                    1,726                  1,840           1,980          2,120           2,290          2.480                10,710
(1,271)                  (552)          (287)               -               -              -                (839)
Contribution to DRF                                     1,176                  1,227           1,277          1,328           1,378          1,429                6,639
Capital Works Charged to Revenue                           80                     80             100            120             100             100                  500
Increase in Pension Fund Excluding Interest                41                      36             42             47              52              58                  235
Interest on Fund Balances                                 140                     149            164            175             190             210                  888
Railways Cash Generation                                   166                    940          1,296          1,670           1,720           1,797                7,423
Capital Funds to be Received from Government            1,640                   2,550          2,800          3,060           3,320           3,570               15,300
Temporary Loans from Government:  RRF                   1,271                     620            389             126            133             140                1,A08
DF                  222                    273             367            437             441             436                1.954
3,299                  4,383          4,852          5,293           5,614           5,943               26,085
Ap lication of Funds
Capital Works Charged to Revenue                           80                      So            100             120            100             100                  500
Replacemenc Works DRF                                   1,375                   1,200          1,300           1,400          1,300           1,300                6,500
Works Charged to Development Fund                          200                    220            300             350            330             300                1,500
Additions Charged to Capital                             1.687                  2,450          2,700           2,960          3,220           3,470               14,800
Total Capital Expenditure                               3,342                   3,950          4,400          4,830           4,950           5,170               23,300
Increase/(Decrease) in Inventories                        (47)                    100            100             100            100             100                  500
Repayment of Temporary Loans:    RRF                         -                      -              -               -               -              -                     -
DF                                             -              -               -               -              -                    -
Interest on Temporary Loans:        RRF                                            70            104             126            133             140                  573
DF                     42                     54             69              89             114            140                  466
3,337                  4,174          4,673           5,145          5,297           5,550               24,839
Increase/(Decrease) in Fund Balances                        (38)                    209             179            148             317            393                1,246
Opening Cash and Fund Balances                             2,938                  2,900           3,109          3,288           3,436          3,753                 2,900
Closing Cash and Fund Balances                             2, 900                 3,109          3,288           3,436           3,753          4,146                4,146
Increase/(Decrease) in Fund Balances:
DRF                  (118)                    109            66               23             178            239                   615
Pensions                99                    100           113              125             139            154                   631
OF                    (19)                      -              -               -               -              -                     -
RRF                                             -              -               -               -              -                     -
Temporary Loans-Balance Outstanding:
RRF                  1,271                  1,891          2,290           2,416           2,549          2,689
DP                  1,079                  1,352          1,719           2,156          2,597           3,033
Source: Indian Railways and I.D.A. Staff.
November 16, 1973



INDIA                               TABLE  8
APPRAISAL OF A TWELMT RAILW! PROJECT
IR Foreign Exchange Requirements During the Two Years 1973/74-1974/75
Requirements
1973/74 ~   1974/75          To1al
US$ millions
Components for:
Electric Locomotives                 11.7           13.1         24.8
Diesel Electric Locomotives          16.Y           17.6         34.5
Diesel Hydrat:lic Locomotives         4.0            3.9          7.9
Electric Multiple Units               1.8            4.1          5.9
Coaches                               3.5            3.2          6.7
Wagons                                5.9           21.2         27.1
63 .1       100.9
Track Renewals,
Line Capacity Works and
Electrical Works                        6.6            3.1          9.7
Signalling and Telacommunication
Equipment                            1.4            2.0          3.4
Electrification Equipment               3.9            2.1          6.o
Plant and Machinery                     2.0            2.0          4.0
Sundry Railway Equipment and
Materials and Services                  8.5            8.5         17.0
66.2           80.8        1l47.0
Already Available:
IDA Credit 280-IN                   35.4              _         35.4
Bilateral Sources                    0 3.           7.6         18.3
Balance Requirement /                  20.1           73.2         93.3
1/ Finance already available from bilateral sources is as follows:
US$ millions
U.S.Aid                              3.7
Canada                               0.5
Federal Republic of Germany          1.0
France                               1.9
Japan                                2.7
United Kingdom                       4.1
Switzerland                         o.4
Belgium )
Italy   )                            O.L
Other Sources                        3.6
18.3
The balance of foreign exchange required is to be covered as
follows:
US$ millions
Proposed IDA Credit                80.0
To be made available from
bilateral or Government
resources                         13.3
93-3
Source: Indian Railways
November 5, 1973



TABLE 9
INDIA                                                                     See NOTES.
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Revenue and Expenditure Forecast - Years 1973/74-1978/79
1973/74          1974/75         1979/76           1976/77          1977/78          1978/79
Rs millions
Gross Operating Revenue
Passenger                                            3,592            3,944            4,102            4,266            4,436            4,614
Other Coaching                                         664              691              718              747              777              808
Goods                                                7,651            8,185            8,650            9,110            9,738           10,338
Sundries                                               329              1312             339              344              349              354
Total Revenue                            12,236          13,154           13,809            14,467           15,300           16,114
Operating Expenses
Personnel Costs                                      6,574            6,717            6,953            7,200            7,489            7,785
Fuel                                                 1,717            1,769            1,853            1,940            2,046            2,154
Other Costs and Stores                               2,005            2,033            2.106            2,182            2,269            2,357
Total Working Expenses                   10,296           10,519           10,912           11,322           11,804           12,296
Appropriations to:
Depreciation Reserve Fund                            1,150            1,200            1,250            1,300            1,350            1,400
Pension Fund                                           160              160              170              180              190              200
Total Operating Expenses                 11,606           11,879           12,332           12,802          13,344            13,896
Net Revenue from Operations                               630           1,275            1,477            1,665           1,956             2,218
Charges to Revenue of a Capital Nature:
Open Line Works                                            80               80              100              120             100               100
Miscellaneous Transactions                                 95              113              116              119             122               125
Net Revenue                                               455           1,082            1,261            1,426           1,734              1,993
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge                          1,726            1,840            1,980            2,120           2,290              2,480
Net Surplus/(Deficit)                                (1,271)             (758)            (719)           (694)            (556)             (487)
Implementatioi of the Earnings Covenant is
expected to improve the Ebove results as follows:
Net Revenue as shown aboxe                               455             1,082            1,261           1,426           1,734             1,993
Additional Earnings                                         -               731           1,545           2,471           3,094             3,881
Estimated Cost Increases (price inflation)                  -            (525)          (1,113)         (1,777)         (2,538)           (3,394)
Net Revenue Available for Dividend                       455             1,288            1,693           2,120           2,290             2,480
Full Dividend                                        1,726             1,840            1,980           2,120           2,290             2,480
Surplus/(Deficit)                                  (1,271)             (552)            (287)               -               -                 _
Achievement of the improved results
would result in:
Operating Ratio                                       94,9              89.3             87.6            86.1            86.3              86.5
Return on Capital-at-Charge - 'I.                      1.2               3.2              3.9             4.6             4.7               4.7
Source:   Indian Railways and I.D.A. Staff.
November 16, 1973






NOTES ON TABLE 9
Page 1
nIDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Revenue and Expenditure Forecast - Years 1973/74 - 1978/79
.   Gross Operating Revenue
Passenger and freight revenue forecasts have been based on the
tariffs applicable from April 1, 1973. Passenger traffic is assumed to
increase at an annual rate of 4%, which is fairly conservative since the
average annual growth rate between 1965/66 and 1972/73 was 4.7%. In 1971/72
and 1972/73 the increases over the preceding years were 6.1% and 5.7%
respectively. Non-suburban traffic comprises about 80% of the total pass-
km; average annual growth for six years to 1971/72 being 4.1% while suburban
traffic increased at about 6% annually. Freight revenue and tonnage fore-
casts are shown in Tables 13 and 13-a; average annual growth in ton-km is
about 6.7%. In recent years originating tonnages have shown no decided
trend but in terms of ton-km the average annual increase between 1965/66
and 1972/73 has been about 2.6%. An important component of freight traffic
is the high-rated General Goods classification which in 1978/79 is expected
to comprise 21% of revenue-earning tonnage while producing 30% of total
freight revenue. The average annual increase in this class of traffic has
been estimated at just under 2%, which in view of IR's.marketing activity
aimed at capturing such traffic is considered reasonable.
2.   Operating Expenses
In preparaing the forecast of operating expenses, IR made their
calculations on the basis of 85% of total working costs being variable in
line with traffic growth. Although this appears excessive, IR produced
figures to justify their calculations, but a fresh approach was made on
the assumption that personnel costs would increase by about 2% annually
as a result of scale increments and that numbers employed would increase
at one-half of the percentage growth in traffic. Fuel costs were assumed
to increase proportionately with traffic growth, and other costs were
assumed to increase by about 4% annually. These assumptions.are considered
reasonable and produced results which in total were not significantly dif-
ferent from IR's own estimates.
Expenditure figures for 1973/74 and subsequent years take account
of the recommendations of the Third Pay Commission which were approved in
October 1973. The effect of these recommendations and other pay awards was
to increase personnel costs Tn 1973/74 by about 20% and will cost about
Rs 1,000 million a year.



NOTES CN TABLE 9
Page 2
The earnings covenant in the credit agreement (as modified by the
proposed waiver) requires IR to meet from earnings 70% of the dividend in
1974/75, 85% in 1975/76 and 100% in subsequent years. In order to fulfill
this covenant additional earnings will have to be obtained from operating
economies and/or tariff increases. It has been calculated that if personnel
and other costs should increase annually by 5%, the tariff increases needed
to fulfill the requirements of the covenant would be as follows:
%
1974/75             5.5   )
1975/76             5.4   )    These are percentages in relationship
1976/77             5.3   )    to total gross revenues.  In practice,
1977/78             2.7   )    the increases would be selective at
1978/79            3.2   )    varying rates.
The effect of implementation of the earnings covenant as described
above has been shown in Table 9.
Allocations to the DRF up to the year 1975/76 are in accordance
with an existing covenant to the Association (Section 4.02(c), Credit 280-IN).
Beyond that date allocations have been increased by Rs 50 million a year.
These figures are reasonable.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Forecast Balance Sheets as of March 31, 1974-1979
1974          1975           1976           1977           1978            1979
Assets                                                                           Rs millions
Fixed Assets                               45,225        48,198         51,538          55,225         59,115         63,225
Inventories                                 2,848         2,948           3,048          3,148          3,248          3,348
48,073        51,146         54,586         58,373         62,363          66,573
Receivables                                 1,941         1,941           1,941          1,941          1,941           1,941
Cash and Deposits with Government:
Cash                                        371           371             371            371            371             371
Deposits                                  2,900         3,109          3,288           3,436          3,753          4,146
Total Assets                        53,285        56,567         60,186         64,121          68,428         73,031
Capital and Reserve Funds
Investment Financed from Government
Capital-at-Charge                        38,903        41,453         44,253          47,313         50,633         54,203
Government Temporary Loans       DF         1,079         1.352           1.719          2,156          2,597          3,033
RRF        1,271         1,891          2,290           2,416          2,549          2,689
Railway Sources
Depreciation Reserve Fund                 2,881         3,109           3,356          3,622          3,869          4,116
Development Fund                          4,272         4,492          4,792           5,142          5,472          5,772
Revenue                                   2,017         2,092           2,185          2,296          2,389           2,482
9,170         9,693         10,333         11,060          11,730         12,370
Less Portion Financed by
Temporary Loans from Government           2,350         3,243           4,009          4,572          5,146           5,722
6,820         6,450          6,324          6,488           6,584          6,648
Railway Funds
Depreciation Reserve Fund                 1,628         1,737           1,803          1,826          2,004           2,243
Revenue Reserve Fund                           3             3              3              3               3              3
Development Fund                               -             -              -              -               -              -
Pension Fund                              1,269         1,369           1,482          1,607          1,746           1,900
2,900         3,109          3,288          3,436           3,753          4,146
Current Liabilities                            2,312         2,312          2,312          2,312           2,312          2,312
Total Capital and Reserves:        53,285        56,567         60,186          64,121         68,428         73,031
Source:  Indian Railways and I.D.A. Staff.
November 16, 1973






APPRAISAL OF A IVELIFl'. RAISAY P%CJECT
IR Freight Tr^ffic. Ton. and Ton Kil-eters
(a)  R"evwe Earning and Railuy Service
Millton Rs                                                                         Percenta&e Increase or Decree-     _
Year                                        Ton Oriuinatimg                                      et To2n Kilometer                               Ton Orialinatinx                        -ion Ems
RAvanus            Servie.         Total              Revanor           Service            Total              Revenue             Total             Revenwe            Total
Earning                                               Earning                                                 Earniag                               Earning
1960-61                         119.8              36.4           156.2                72333            15347             87680                9-?                 6.5                4.8              6.9
1961-62                         125.6              34.9            160.5               73353            1563               91218               4.                 2.8                4.2              4.0
1962-63                         139.4              39.4           178.8                83140             17553            100693              11.0                11.4               10.3             10.4
1963-64                         147.6              43.5           191.1                88624             18217            106841               5.9                 6.9                6.6               6.1
1964-65                         148.8              45.0            193.8               88752             17818            106570               0.8                 1.4                0.1             -0.3
1965-66                         162.0              41.0           203.0                98979            17957             116936               8.9                 4.7               11.5               9.7
1966-67                         16,4.0             37.6            201.6               99284             17323            116607               1.2                -0.7                0.3             -0.3
1967-68                         142.4              34.2            196.6              101121             17739            118860              -1.0                -2.5                1.8               1.9
19ff-69                         170.S              33.2            204.0              108129            17011             125140               5.2                 3.8                6.9               5.3
1969-70                         17XcS              34.1           207.9               111826            16422             128248               1.8                 1.9                3.4               2.5
1970-71                         167.9              28.6            196.5              110696             16662            127358              -3.4                -5.5               -1.0             -0.7
i971-72                         170.1              21.7           197.8               118S94            16371             133265               1.3                 0.7                5.6               4.6
1972-73                         175.1                                                 121897                                                   2.9                                    4.3
(Provl .)
(b)  8road Gauge ead Other Gucues
million KS                                                                         Percentage Inreae or Decrease
Year                                        Ton Oriainatina                                     Net Too Kilometer                                 Ton Orielnatlng                         Nat Ton BE
BReed             Meter And        Tj.j.               Broad           Meter and           rmccl              Broad            Moter and            Dread            Meter and
Gauge           l[srrov Ga.ges                         Gaue          Narrow Gauges                            Gauge           Narrow Gauzes         CaUge          Narrow GxoK,-
1960-61                         120.7              35.5            156.2               73724             13956             87680               8.0                 1.7                6.6               8.9
1961-62                         125.4              35.1            160.5               76023             13195             91218                3.9               -1.1                3.1               8.9
1962-63                         140.8              38.0            173.8               84328             16365            100693              12.3                 8.3               10.9               7.7
1963-64                         151.9              39.2            191.1               89130             17711            106S41                7.9                3.2                5.7               8.2
1964-65                         153.8              40.0            193.8               88569             18001            106570                1.2                2.0               -0.6               1.6
1965-66                         162.3              40.7            203.0               97251             1968t            116936                5.6                1.8                9.8               9.4
1966-67                         163.8              37.8            201.6               97599             19008            116607                0.9               -7.1                0.4              -3.
1967-68                         161.1              35.5            196.6               99977             18383            11t860              -1.6                -6.1                2.4              .0.7
1968-69                         168.3              35.7            204.0              104930             20210            125140                4.5                0.6                3.0               7.0
1969-70                         171.0              36.9            207.9              107286             20962            128248                1.6                3.4                2.2               3.7
1970-71                         160.9              35.6            196.5              106339             21019            127358               -5.9               -3.5               -0.9               0.3
1971-72                         162.1              35.7            197.8              11184t             21717            133265                0.7                0.3                4.9               3.3



Ir Pssansar Craffi, 1055,66 - 1972/73
Passenger Kilomiters (lillow)            196-66              1966-67           1967-68           1968-69           1969-70             1970-71          1971-71          1972-73 (Pro2 l)
rore Class, Air-Condtilonsd                  146                 151               153               134               146                175               167
nr1c Class, Ordinary                       2.976               3,137             3,070             3,137             3.454              3,516             3,723
Saonnd Class, MAII                         1,278               1,062             1,097             1,077             1,202               1,162            1.320
Second Class, Ordinary                       701                 708               677               377               587                540               509
Vhird Cl..., ktr-Conditioned                 140                 168               231               216               277                287               313
Third Class, Mail                         29.062              29.035            32.608            33,574            34,798              37.885           41.515
7hird Cls.E Ordry                        61.991              67,814            69.327            68.225            72.918              74.535           77.786
TOTAL                96.294             102.145           107.163            m                 11a3  2                             Laa20  a             1512,500
Ir tlrn-Lr ars Fapsannar amd
"tt ne11ertenof Nisd
Convntional trains                       214,394             218,776           220,509           220,020           222,599             224.799          228,330             223,642
11.tric MiltiyIe Unit.                   15,980              17,992            19,306            20.481            22,035             23,051            23,920              26,997
Rmil Cars                                  2954                3.192           3.129               3.056             2.623             2.47               2,.656              2.821
TOSAL                                   flZa_2 2.6                          2347.26
3n.eorttsa et  1n  (tb,sasis
CowntiUel traia                        4.276,661           4,350,332         4.371,516         4,290,718          4.550.065          4,636,370        4,803.992           4,781,647
glctric Ibltiple Dntts                  263,528             274,593           297.805           31U,541            343,316            369,314          391,546             64O048
Mi1 Cars                                   6.647               7.252             7.027             6624            5.460                 5.C5J                                 6.5p2
TOTAL              .546.836           4.63247                                                .96.8                  a2,
Fosamar rass
(Ip i t-A t4 ds)
Firat Class, A1r-CossdiEosd               19,905              20,590            23,319            22.775            24.680              32,250           31,517
First Class, Ordinary                    168.656             172,049           161.511           194,305           204,09B             231.382          254.516
Second Class, mail                        59,720              50,406            55,276            56,285            61,292              69,599           80.501
Sacond Class, Ordinary                    28,094              28,155            28,060            246,81             25.256             23,625           24.349
Third Class. Alr-Conditirnnd               5,530               6,802            10,008            10,254             15,205             16,816           19,045
Third Class, Ml                          779,U67             780.524           917,147           976,897          1,013.497          1,107,963        1,230,163
Third Class. Ordinary                   1.130.305          ,234.U2           1, J15             1    67          1,446.594           1.473.087        1.561.190
TOI.L              1.19.717           3.,243.                                               A                   aR4.93                                9 3   434 000
(lilamlr (Iif. )
irst Clas, Air-Condittnsad                 13.60               13.67             15.29             16.90            16.9                 18.5             18.9
first Class, Ordinary                       5.67                5.48              5.91              6.19             5.91                 6.58             6.84
S.cend Class, Ibtl                          4.67                4.66              5.04              5.23              5.10                5.89             6.10
Secood Class, Ordinary                      4.01                3.97              4.15              4.31              4.30                4.41             4.78
Third Class, Air-Coaditioued                3.97                4.05              4.32              4.75              4.76                5.65             6.09
Third Class, Hail                           2.68                2.68              2.81              2.92              2.91                2.92             2.96
Third Class, Ordinry                        1.62                1.82              1.89              2.00              1.98                1.98             2.01
Average All Classes                         2.28                2.25              2.36               2.48             2.U                 2.50              2.55                2.59                          .
A.B..t 1973



TABLE 13
to _.c- ~             -        
Cc~ ~        O-                              r 0o N                 N      cc          N    .s                           4  
4~                         ~           _4                -                              4        Ns            4
o~~~ 4                                                                                    ^e o                        . 
N~~~~            ~ cg c        cc                                      co N  C0   _ 4    cc_
.4            c                         0                0        (    .4              N           1 _N cc .  N
loCal  ~          ~ .4   cc                      G NO                        ,_ N  cc  Nt N. 0    'C
-..N     .4   cc              N    -    N        cc       4                                 4 N    -    c  c
444                                   N                              _            ON          _            
0.51cc   _4    N              4                           O .4  .4              4        _            
.~ ~~4      4    .4       b    0    .4    N         N       cc       o          N                  cc
.-'             _ cc    4    N      .4       4             -    51   .4    N         c             g    ' 
05      0    N              4           N       N       n4            s4   .0                  '0i             N    N b
cc            O .c                                       N    .                                    c     c    4     -       . 
cc  C                     'CN                 .4      .     0     N       .4                         NN                         5'   _ '
Si~~ ~~~~                                                                    .4             0              N                       Nc
a5                          4! 2c                                ..                  N             ~-                      4         c
3   Q                                 D                     r                O     N N- 0                            _          f           O0  
z ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        .                N-N  O  X   to
>  o                                         -             M  t    S                             @  ^c   cc  0.
w   1 ~ ~ ~~~~N                  N _                                                     4       c
. 4 O.0    N                               4         .        0        4        . 4          0                               0         N
.440~      ~~ ~~        ~ 4:  .4  N)   N           c        -        Q     iN    4    c    4       N              0    N
O4 -4             N                       -            'O    D    4       . O4 O               _
.4 'N     4.         N       cc       N o            4    4    cc   N        cc 01                 .4 
SoSc. *.4                               .S                                                        SX         I        



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTA RAILWAY PROJECT
IR Freight Revenue Forecast 1973/74-1978/79
Revenue Earning Traffic                     1973/74                     1974/75              1975/76                  1976/77                     1977/78                  1978/79
Tons       Rs             Tons         Rs        Tons       Rs           Tons        Rs               Tons      Rs             Tons      Rs
(Figures in Millions)
1.  Steel Plants
a)  Finished Products               6.8      596               7.5       657         8.8      771             9.5      832               10.5    919              11.5      1,007
b)  Raw Material (excl.Coal)       18.1      263              18.8       321        20.8      355            23.5      401               26.5    452              28.5        486
2.  Coal
For Steel Plants                   12.6      242              12.6       236        13.6      254            15.4      288               17.2    322              19.0        356
Washeries                       6.1       61               6.3        62         7.0       70             7.9       79                8.5      84              9.0         89
Other Users                    33.9   1,055              36.0    1,220          38.0   1,288            41.5   1.407                 46.7  1,583              53.0    1,797
3.  Iron Ore for Export                    9.8      305             12.7        372        13.8      404           15.2      445                16.8    493              18.5       543
4.  Cement                                10.8      438              13.0       530        13.8      563            15.0      612               16.3    666              18.0       735
5.  General Goods
a)  Foodgrains                     17.2      686              17.5       682        17.5      682            17.0      663               17.0    663              17.0        663
b)  Fertilizers                     5.7      286               7.5       370         9.0      444            10.0      494               11.0    543              11.0        543
c)  Mineral Oil (POL)              10.8      622              11.8       665        12.5      705            13.5      761               14.5-   817              15.5        8?.,
d)  Others                         49.1   2.897               50.0    2.855         51.0   2.898             51.5   2,912                52.5  2.976              54.0    3.02w
TOTAL REVENUE EARNING TRAFFIC            180.9   7,451             193.7    7,970         205.8   8,434           220.0   8,894                237.5  9,518             255.0   10,11
Non-Revenue Traffic
Railway Coal                         15.0                       14.3                  14.2                     14.0                        13.5                     13.0
Rail*my Materials                    12.1                       12.0                  12.0                     12.0                        12.0                     12.0
Other Goods Earnings                      -         200                                    - W21                              216               -        220                         220
TOTAL ALL TRAFFIC                        208.0   7.651             220.0    8,185         232.0   8.650           246.0   9.110                263.0  9,738             280.0   10,338
Note:  The revenue figures are based on information supplied by IR and take into account rate increases which becaoe effective April 1, 1973.
Source:  Indian Railways
November 5, 1973



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Projections of IR Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic 1969/70 - 1978/79
Distance Zone    )                           Passengers Originating (in millions)                                     Percentage of Total
1969/70        1973/74         1978/79                         1969/70         1973/74          1978/79
1-80                                    806            1041            1057                             79.2            78.9             78.1
80-250                                    142            185             196                             14.0            14.0             14.5
250-800                                     58             76              81                              5.6             5.8              6.0
Over 800                                    12             17              19                              1.2              1.3             1.4
Total                         1018           1319            1353                            100.0            100.0           100.0
1/  The break-up excludes military and season ticket passengers - the total number of originating passenger non-suburban being 1179.
August 1973






TABLE 15
INLIA
APPRAISL OF A TWMIFRAiLWAr PROJ2CT
Gcowaibon of _&brban and Non-uburban Paisser Traffic of IR
1969/70          1970/71          1971/72
Pgssmnztr Originating
(in millions)
ablurban                       - 1,l58            1,227             1,283
Non-&iburban                     1.180            1,204             1.253
Total                                   2431 22.536
Pasanaer kia (in miliona)
-abtrban                        22,163           23,052            24z,333
Non-9uaburban                   91,219           95,068           101,000
Total                11382             118.120          1,25333
Avorae Lenad (in kna)
&iburban                         19.1             18.8              19.0
Non-Subu*sn                      77.3              78.9             80.7
Anguat 1973



TABL*E 16
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWELFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Composition of IR's Fifth Plan Investment Program by Cost Reducing and
Capacity Increasing Investments, Re. Million
Rs. million
Total Planned     Capacity         Cost Reducing
Investment Items                Investments      Increasing         Investments
Investments      _
Rolling Stock                            9,000           5,250               3,750
Workshops & 5heds                        1,500            1,150                450
Machinery & Plant                          400              100                300
Track Renewals                           2,000                               2,000
Bridge Works                               600             -                   600
Line Capacity Works                     5,000            4,500                 500
Signalling & Safety                      1,100             300                 800
KLectrification                          1,200            1,190                 10
Other El. Works                            200              130                 70
New Lines                                1,000            1,000
Staff Welfare                              200             1/                1
Staff Quarters                            400                                  /
User's Amenities                           200             1/                  /
Other Specified Works                      200              100                100
Road Services                              300              150                150
Inventories                                500              250                250
Total                                  23,800           14,120              8,980
1/ Not included in rernumerative investments.
November 1973



APPRAISL OF A TWM2TH RAILWA2 PROJECT
Reslts of Economic Evaluation-/
r  Investments,2/                             Operating Cos s, Rs million   -              Benefits with the Project..
Rs million            Without Project           With Project       _      __         Rs  million         |
Year        Cost    X Capacity    Existing   Additional  Existing    Additional        Cost      Capacity       To1
Reducing  'Increasing  Traffic 3/ Traffic 4/ Traffic 3/   Traffic L/   Reduction   Increase            ota
1974/750      2,000      2,600    j   362          500         197          140           165        360          525
75/76                               373                                                 176                     536
76/77                                384                                               187                      547
77/78                                396                                                199                     559
78/79                               407           I                                     210                     570
79/80                               420           I                                     223                     583
So/81                                432          I                                     235                     595
81/82                               445                                                 248                     608
82/83                               459                       i                         262                     622
83/84                               472                                                 275                     635
84/85                               486                                                 289                     649
85/86                                501                                                304                     664
86/87                               516                                                 319                     679
87/88                               532                                                 335                     695
88/89                               548                                                 351          .
89/90                                564                                   i            367                     72'
90/91                                581                                               38!4                     7L1Y
91/92                               598                                                 401                     76!
92/93                               616                                                 419                     77"
93/94                                635                                                439                     79.
94/95                                654                                                457                     81(
95/96                                673                                                476                     836
96/97                               6Y4                                                 499                     859
97/98                                714                                               517                      877
1998/99                               736          500         197           14C          539        360          899
1/ Economic evaluation procedures and basis for benefit calculations have been des&ribed in Annex 11.
2/ icxludes investments (Rs 0.2 billion) in unremunerative services not related to the operational performance rt IR.
:/ Including increased traffic (about 4 million tons) accommodated by existing assets through replaeaments and improved
efficiency; unit operating costs increasing by 3% p.a. without project investment.
4/ Related to capacity increasing investments.
g/ Includes also investments (Rs  0.8 billion) in last auarter of 1973/74.
Iconomic return (ER) on cost-reducing investments e-..o 12%;  first year benefits (FYB) --  8%;
economic return  ER) on capacity-increasing investments -   13%A   FYB ---  14%;
economic return  ER) for the whole project ,__, 13%;   FYH B       il%.
August 1973






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF A TWLLfTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Indian Railvway Ofganizatton Chart
MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS
RAILWAY BOARD
Cheirean
Financial Comaisaioner
Hesaber Methanical
Member Staff
Sm-ber Traffic
Additional Member Coesaercial
Additional Member Electrical
Engineering
Additional Membler Finance
Additional Member Staff
Additional Meber  ok
O.S.D. (Project *nd
Production Unital
S..retary
DIRECTORs 1701                                               ZONALI RAILWAYS                                            MANUFACTURING UNITS AND PROJECTS                                                  RESEARCH, DES INS AND
STANDARDS ORCANIZATION. LUCKNOW
A .... nts                                   ~~~~~~~~~Ceneral M ... ers (9)                              Oeneral Managers (4)
Civil Engineer                                                                                                                                                                                     Director General
Efficiency B.re-                                             Central Railway, Bombay                                    Chittaranjan Locomotive Worus, Chittaranjan
Electrical Engineering                                       Eastern Railway, Calcutta                                  Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi
Eatablish-ent                                                Northern Railway, New Delhi                                Integral Coach Factory. Madras
Establish-ent (Speciall                                      North Eastern Railway, Gorakbpur                           Metropolitan Tranaport Project
PIin.me                                                      Northeast Fro-trie  Railwy, M11i.ao.(Ca.hatil                 (Railways). Calcutta
hesIth                                                       S.uthern Railway, Madras
Mechanical Engineering                                       South Central Railway. Secunderabad
Mechanical Engiceering (Workahops)                           South Etur-to Railway, CaIcutta
Metropolitan Transport                                       Western Railway, Bomby
R ilway Act Reviaion
Raliway Planning
R ilvwy Storea
Safety and Coaching
Security
Signalling and Teleco1-unicatio
Statintica and Econo-ita
Traffic C    Ccial
Traffic Tranaportation
Advisers (2'
Economicc
Joint Secretary and Legal Adviser
Additional Directora (3)
Coal Transport Planciag
(B_ngal Rihar Coal Fields)
(Central India Pench Chanda Coal Fields)
August 1973






-                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 2593 RI
C  H         I        N~ HU  AN
5   U T H                         S TORHE R& N
R A I L    A Y ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ SEEE 
Vk~~~~~



