CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 448 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Twelfth Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 21, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 448 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Twelfth Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 21, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called   the   Borrower)   and   IN7RNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
has previously financed the foreign exchange cost of six projects forming a part
of the program for rehabilitation, modernization, expansion and increase in capacity
of the railways owned and operated by the Borrower, and has entered into loan
agreements with the Borrower dated August 18, 1949 No. 171N: July 12, 1957
Nos. 1671N, 1681N, 1691N and 170IN; September 16, 1958 No. 2071N; July 15,
1959 No. 2331N; July 29, 1960 No. 2621IN and October 13, 1961 No. 2981N
providing for such projects;
(B)   the Association has previously assisted in financing the foreign
exchange cost of five projects forming part of the programs for rehabilitation,
modernization, expansion and increase in capacity of the railways owned and
operated by the Borrower, and has entered into development credit agreements
with the Borrower dated March 22, 1963 No. 361N: October 26, 1964 No. 671N;
June 29, 1966 No. 881N; September 24, 1969 No. 1621N and January 24, 1972
No. 280IN providing for such projects;
(C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in financing a
twelfth railway project; and
(D)   the Association is willing to make a development credit available for
such twelfth railway project on the terms and conditions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof


﻿4
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(b)   Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(c)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Railways" means the railways owned and operated by the Borrower
and includes all railway property, equipment and materials of the Borrower;
(b)   "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(c)   "Corporate Plan" means the corporate plan referred to in Section
4.03(a) of the Development Credit Agreement dated January 24, 1972
(No. 280 IN).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one -,-r cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August 1 commencing
February 1, 1984, and ending August 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct the
operations of the Railways, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation


﻿6
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the oroceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain passenger fares and freight rates, and shall take all other
action as may be necessary or appropriate, so as to provide to the Railways net
revenue sufficient to enable the Railways to meet for each fiscal year out of
internally generated resources, all operating expenses and dividend payments on
capital-at-charge.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         the term  "net revenue" means the revenue accruing from the
operation of the Railways excluding any net revenues or losses


﻿7
which may result from the operation of mass rapid transit
systems in the principal cities of India. Such revenues or losses
from mass rapid transit systems, if included in the Railways'
budget, will be separately shown therein and in the financial
accounts of the Railways;
(ii)        the term "operating expenses" means all direct costs of operation
of the Railways, including adequate maintenance expenses and
adequate appropriation for the Depreciation Reserve Fund and
the Pension Fund of the Railways; and
(iii)       the term  "capital-at-charge" means the capital provided by the
Borrower to the Railways and appearing in the Railways
accounts as interest-bearing permanent capital.
(c)   The adequate appropriation for the Depreciation Reserve Fund of the
Railways mentioned in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of this Section shall be
not less than Rupees 1.150 million, 1.200 million and 1.250 million for the fiscal
years 1973/74 to 1975/76 respectively.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare and keep uo to date a Corporate
Plan covering all aspects of the Railways' business which shall include, inter alia,
provision for the matters specified in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement dated January 24, 1972 (No. 280 IN) and shall take into account any
plans of the Borrower in other modes of transportation.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.0 1. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, financial condition, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such


﻿8
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Associatioi all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, financial condition, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of thim       of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Railways and any relevant records
and documents, and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿9
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date March 21, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or
Director/Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By  /s / G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent)
1.          Components and materials                        49,500,000
required for the manufacture
of electric locomotives,
diesel locomotives, electric
multiple units. coaches and
wagons
II.         Equipment and materials                          1,500,000
for line capacity works,
electrical works, etc.
Ill.        Rails                                            2,500,000
IV.         Equipment for signalling                         2,000,000
and telecommunication
schemes
V.          Equipment and materials                          2,000,000
for electrification
schemes
VI.        Plant and machinery                               2,000,000
VII.        Other railway equipment                          4,500,000
and material; technical
services approved by the
Association


﻿Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                      Dollar Equivalent)
ViII.       Equipment for standard-                             16,000,000
ization, consisting of:
(a)   Diesel locomotive
components including
rectifiers and control
equipment, crank shafts,
cylinder head casting,
turbo-chargers, compres-
sors, fuel booster pumps,
pistons
(b)   Electric locomotive com-
ponents, including air-
blast circuit breakers,
tap-changers, traction
motor components, switch-
gear, transformers, rec-
tifiers, gears, pinions,
brake equipment and com-
pressors
(c)   Electric multiple unit
components, mainly
traction and brake
equipment
TOTAL                80,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿13
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures
under any Category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to
such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to any other Category, except Category
VIII, to the extent required by an increase in the estimate of the expenditures
under such other Category.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the investment scheduled to be made by the Railways for
the period from January 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975, estimated at approximately
$654 million equivalent.
The Project includes the acquisition of rolling stock, other railway materials
and equipment and technical services, which will enable the putting into service
during the Project period of about 370 locomotives, about 300 electric multiple
units, construction of about 1,650 coaches to meet the steady growth of passenger
traffic and about 27,000 wagons (in terms of four-wheelers), as well as the provision
of track renewals and bridge works, line capacity works and signalling electrification,
new lines, workshops, machinery, plant and staff and passenger amenities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1975.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment or materials with a foreign
currency component estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award except that prior approval of the Association shall not be required in respect
of any contract for such items as shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association, if the award for such agreed items has been made to the
lowest evaluated bidder. In the latter case, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it detennines
that the intended or actual award, as the case may be, is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two confonned copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    (a)   Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) below, with respect to
any other contract for equipment or materials, the Borrower shall furnish to the


﻿16
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, and upon
request by the Association, the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
any other material relevent thereto. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(b)   With respect to any contract for equipment or materials with a foreign
currency component estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the
Borrower shall use procurement arrangements in accordance with its usual business
practices.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs of this
Schedule, with respect to any contract for equipment or materials to be financed
under Category VIII of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this
Agreement, the Borrower may place contracts through negotiation provided that:
(a)   the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts conform    to the
Borrower's standard form of contract; and
(b)   the Association's prior approval of such standard form of contract (and
any modification thereof) shall have been obtained.


