Document of
The World Bank                   FILZ  C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.1903b-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
HAITI
May 4, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1             =  ¢  5.00
¢  1.0          =  US$0.20
¢  1 million    =  US$200,000
Weights and Measures:              Metric
Metric                             British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kmi)       =  0.386 square mile (sq  mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)           =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
October 1 to September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAIPP         -   Administration de l'Aeroport International de Port-au-Prince
(International Airport Authority)
APN           -   Autorite' Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority)
presently being formed as successor to Administration
Portuaire de Port-au-Prince
APp            -   Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince (Port-au-Prince
Port Administration)
BNRH          -   Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti (National Bank
of the Republic of Haiti)
CEBTP         -   Centre d'Etude du Batiment et des Travaux Publics
CONADEP       -   Conseil National de Developpement et de la Planification
(National Development Planning Council)
CPS           -   Coastal Ports Service
FAC           -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
GRT           -   Gross Registered Tons
IDA           -   International Development Association
IDB           -   Inter-American Development Bank
NTS            -   National Transport Study
SAT           -   Service Autonome des Transports (Autonomous Transport Service)
SEPRRN        -   Service de Entretien Permanant du Reseau Routier National
(National Road Maintenance Service)
TPTC           -   Secretairerie des Travaux Publics des Transports et de
Communication (Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications)
UNCDF         -   United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP          -   United Nations Development Program
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
HAITI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................9. 9...............                 1
A.   Background ......... 0.099.... 9...9 ..........9.........9          1
B.    Sectoral Development and Priorities ..... o.........    I
C.    Institutional Framework ................. .     .........          3
D.   Planning o.o.o..........     o...... ....... ...............o...........  3
E.   Financing .....o....o....... ..o.. ........ .... ...................  4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..oo..o. ...... . .    ....... ..   .... .   ....  5
A.    The Highway Network            o ................ .   -. ...       5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic ..**..........               5
C.   Traffic Regulation and Road Transport Services  ...                6
D.   Highway Administration ..........             .................     7
E.   Highway Planning and Engineering  ................. o              8
F.   Highway Construction ... ... * * * * * ........... ...- .... .*.. .  8
G.   Highway Maintenance ........ . . . . . . .  ........... ..........-- ...  9
H.   Highway Financing .. . ..... .. . ..  ..... ... .o. ......... .   11
III.  THE COASTAL SHIPPING SUBSECTOR .............. .          ......         11
A.   The Present Coastal Shipping System ..............                 11
B.    Improvement of Coastal Shipping ............... .   ....         12
C.    Characteristics of Traffic ... ....................              13
D.   Port Administration and Development ..............                14
E.   Port Financing ... ... ....... *.0.0 ..*. .. .... .. ...0... .    15
F.   Fleet Development . . ..o ...   ........o......o. .   .... o...o.  16
IV.   PAST AND ONGOING IDA ASSISTANCE TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                 17
V.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ... .............. . ........ .......              18
A.    Objectives and General Description ...............                18
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing .. ............                      19
C.    Execution and Procurement o ................ oo..                22
D.   Risks ...... ........... 0.- ...... 999999 .........              23
This report has been prepared by'Messrs. William Matthey (Highway Engineer),
Peter Engelmann (Senior Ports Engineer), Bengt Bostrom (Economist), Noor
Rasheed (Financial Analyst) and Kuldeep Ohbi (Transport Economist/Consultant)
and has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This dociment has a r"tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   ROADS AND BRIDGES ............................................  24
A.   Project Identification and Preparation .... ......        24
B.   Detailed Description .....       .......................  24
C.   Economic Assessment ....................  .........       27
VII.  COASTAL SHIPPING PORTS ...        ............................  31
A.   Project Preparation .....      ........................   31
B.   Project Components .....       .........................  32
C.   Project Impact ..........      ........................   34
D.   Economic Evaluation . ........................... .       34
E.   Project Administration .....      .....................   36
F.   Financial Analysis .....       .........................  37
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....       ............   42
TABLES
1.1  -  FY1977-FY1981 Development Program Transportation
Investments ...      ................................   44
2.1  -  Highway Sector Expenditures FY1974-FY1977 .......         45
2.2  -  Projected Highway Sector Investment
FY1978-FY1981 .....      ............................   46
2.3  -  Revenue from User Charges 1974-1977    .............      47
3.1  -  Characteristics of 12 Coastal Shipping Ports ....         48
5.1  -  Estimated Disbursement Schedule       .................   49
6.1  -  Existing Project Road Characteristics .. .........        50
6.2  -  Paved Road Improvement Standards ..............   ..      51
6.3  -  Summary of Road and Bridge Construction Cost
Estimates ......      ...............................  52
6.4  -  Traffic Forecast on Project Roads and Bridges ...         53
6.5  -  Vehicle Operating Costs .....      ....................   54
6.6  -  Highways Component - Sensitivity of Economic
Indicators to Selected Variations in Costs and
Benefits   ......................................      55
6.7  - Major Bridges - Sensitivity of Economic Indicators
to Selected Variations in Costs and  Benefits .        56
6.8  -  Projected Rates of Return for Roads and Bridges .         57
7.1  -  Development of Port-au-Prince Coastal
Shipping Traffic ......      ........................  58
7.2  -  Development of Jeremie Port Traffic ....     .........    59
7.3  -  Development of Port-de-Paix Port Traffic ........         60
7.4  -  Passenger Traffic Development ....       ...............  61
7.5  -  Coastal Shipping Pilot Ports Component -
Capital Cost Estimate .........................        62
7.6  -  Studies of Coastal Shipping Development and
Cap Haitien - Cost Estimates ....      ..............  63
7.7  -  Benefits for Coastal Shipping Ports 1980 ........         64



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES (Continued)
7.8  -  Summary of Costs and Benefits of Coastal
Shipp  Ports Pret  (page  1 to 5.......    ..........  7765
7.9  -  Coastal Shipping Ports - Economic Rate of
2.   SeleteDoument  Avilbl ....   the....  Prjc6ie6.............................7
7.10 - Cash Flow of APP Including Coastal Shipping
Ports (pages 1-2)   .............................     67-68
7.11 - Balance Sheet of APP Including Coastal Shipping
Ports          ................ .........................  69
ANNEXES
1.   Assumptions and Notes on Financial Forecast for
Pilot Ports Project (pages 1 to 5) ...............       70-74
2.   Selected Documents Available in the Project Files .,75
CHARTS
1.   Present Organization of APP .... ...................         76
2.   Tentative Execution Schedule .................77
3.   Proposed Organization National Port Authority
Port-au-Prince with Expanded Jurisdiction
over Pilot Coastal Ports............ *..............       78
MAPS
IBRD 13293 - Fifth Transportation Project - General
IBRD 13294 - Fifth Transportation Project - Northern Region Roads
IBRD 13295 - Fifth Transportation Project - Port-au-Prince Area






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01      Haiti's island location, its rugged terrain, its long coastline,
the dispersion of its agricultural production and the dominance of one city,
Port-au-Prince, are of particular significance to its transpor5 sector.  Haiti
is a relatively small country, with an area of about 27,700 km (about the size
of the State of Maryland). It has three major mountain ranges, and 40% of its
area is above 500 meters in altitude. Only about one-third of the land is
cultivated (the balance is 18% pasture, 9% forested and 39% uncultivated)
and the agricultural areas, which support 77% of the population, are widely
dispersed. With 170 inhabitants per square km, Haiti is among the most
densely populated countries in the world; total population is about
4.7 million, of which about 80% is rural. The size distribution of urban
centers is highly unbalanced; besides the capital city of Port-au-Prince which
has a population of over 600,000, there are seven provincial centers ranging
in size from 12,000 to 50,000, and 61 towns with populations of 2,000 to
9,000, many of them poorly served by the present transport system.
1.02      In external trade, about 98% of Haiti's freight tonnage is moved by
sea, the balance by air or by land transport to the Dominican Republic. Up
to the 1950s, a significant amount of Haiti's exports moved directly through
a number of small coastal towns. As international shipping patterns changed,
encouraging centralization, the public terminal at Port-au-Prince became the
major international shipping center, handling 90% of the country's general
cargo imports and exports. While important tonnages are also handled at spe-
cialized private terminals elsewhere (e.g., bauxite, petroleum products, cement,
wheat, etc.), the concentration of general cargo trade at one port has a major
impact on internal transport demand. International passenger traffic is now
both by air (122,000 arrivals in 1976), and by tourist ships, which bring
important numbers of one-day visitors, mostly to Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien (about 202,000 in 1976).
1.03      Internal transport (about 700,000 tons in 1975) moves primarily
by road and is largely concentrated on a few recently reconstructed primary
roads which form the backbone of the transport system. Besides roads, coastal
shipping accounts for 18% of domestic freight tonnage and 10% of domestic
passenger movements. Domestic air travel is light, primarily serving tourists
and a limited local market of Government officials and businessmen. Haiti's
road network deteriorated drastically during the 1960s because road mainte-
nance was totally neglected; as a result, provincial centers became isolated
from one another and from the capital. Since 1971, the Government has recog-
nized the importance of transport and has undertaken the reconstruction of
the basic road network.
B.   Sectoral Development and Priorities
1.04      The first Five-Year National Development Plan (1971-1976) gave
priority to the development of agricultural production and the rehabilita-
tion of the transport infrastructure.   Since 1972, the transport sector has



benefited from substantial assistance from multinational and bilateral lending
agencies mostly for reconstruction of the road network and the revival of road
maintenance. IDA contributed a total of US$30 million in two Credits (Credit
478-HA, 1974 and Credit 556-HA, 1975; see Chapter IV) to the reconstruction
of the main Northern Road from the capital to Cap Haitien (250 km). The other
main road from Port-au-Prince to Les Cayes, the Southern Road (160 km), is be-
ing rebuilt with Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) support through three
loans (US$22.4 million, 1974; US$25 million, 1976 and US$5.2 million, 1978).
The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Assistance, FAC) has
provided about US$7 million for the construction of the 40-km spur between the
Southern Road and the regional capital of Jacmel. The United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) started in 1973 to support equipment
purchase, technical assistance and training in road maintenance. USAID is, in
addition, supporting an agricultural road rehabilitation program (US$7.4 million
in 1977). IDB has also provided financing to expand the port of Port-au-Prince
(two loans: US$10 million in 1972 and US$7.5 million in 1976) and FAC has
equipped small domestic airports with navigational aids. Except for the con-
struction of the Southern Road, which suffered initial delays, all these projects
have been completed or are reaching completion.
1.05      The 1971-1976 Development Plan prepared by CONADEP (Conseil National
du Developpement et de la Planification) was not based on sectoral analysis.
This was not a major failing since the Plan addressed obvious reconstruction
priorities. The Government, however, recognized the need to strengthen
sectoral planning and to study future development of transport infrastructure.
Two important measures were agreed in this respect under IDA's Third Highway
Project: (a) the creation of the Service Autonome des Transports (SAT) within
the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (TPTC); and (b) the
execution of a transport survey to provide the sectoral input for the next
five-year Development Plan (1976-1981). The National Transport Study (NTS)
benefited from a UNDP grant of US$600,000, for which the Bank was executing
agency. The NTS was carried out over the period 1975-1977 by US consultants
Louis Berger International, Inc. SAT was established in December 1975 with
the local counterpart staff from the NTS.
1.06      The NTS undertook an analysis of future transport demand and recom-
mended a transport policy well adapted to the country's potential. Transport
demand is scattered and transport flows are generally light, consisting prin-
cipally of agricultural commodities with low value per unit volume; the trans-
port sector can therefore support only a low level of infrastructure investment,
and preference should be given to low fixed cost alternatives with the highest
road priority being maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
The NTS also recommended giving priority to complementary transport investments,
mostly roads, supporting integrated agricultural development programs. The NTS
explored the potential of coastal shipping transport and considered two strat-
egies: (a) emphasis on road improvements with no Government support for
coastal shipping; and (b) emphasis on coastal shipping improvements, combined
with improved maintenance and selected upgrading and rehabilitation of exist-
ing roads. The Study recommended the second strategy as the least total cost
alternative. The Government has generally accepted the recommendations of
the NTS and took them as the basis for the transport component of the current
five-year Development Plan (1976-1981).



-3-
C.   Institutional Framework
1.07      While the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
plays a central role in the operation of the transport sector, the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Affairs, the National Bank (BNRH) and the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry are also closely involved. The Minister for Finance and
Economic Affairs, assisted by the Director of the BNRH, is responsible
for monitoring port development and operations, for the custom services and
for the collection of transport taxes. The Minister for Commerce and Industry
is responsible for airport operations and for the Civil Aviation Service,
which regulates air transport and domestic airports. In addition to these
Ministries, three autonomous agencies have been formed in response to partic-
ular needs, specifically (a) the Port-au-Prince Port Administration (APP)
responsible for international ports (see Chapter III); (b) the International
Airport Authority (AAIPP) responsible for the airport at Port-au-Prince and
(c) the National Road Maintenance Service (SEPRRN, para 2.08). The APP
is presently being changed into a National Port Authority (APN).
1.08      TPTC's responsiblities (defined by Law dated June 17, 1971), in
addition to roads and bridges, extend also to city streets, public buildings,
zoning and construction regulations, and public utilities, for which four
autonomous organizations (power, communications, Port-au-Prince water and
separate national water supply) were established. The increase in transport
investment since 1972 led to the establishment of three specialized services,
SAT for planning and engineering, the Construction Service for construction
supervision and the National Laboratory of Public Works (see Chapter II).
1.09      In the early 1970s, the Government faced the problem of initiating
the 1971-1976 Plan with inadequate institutional capacity, in particular in
TPTC, the most important of the technical ministries.  The establishment of
autonomous agencies and specialized services offered a way to escape the limi-
tations of the existing TPTC departments and was also well suited to meet the
requirements of external development agencies concerning the implementation
and operations of specific projects. The resulting institutional framework,
however, is unwieldy and suffers from a number of deficiencies: duplication
and gaps exist in important aspects, e.g., programming and budgeting is not
done on a sectoral basis; liaison between agencies and services functions
poorly, and routine coordination depends too often on direct action by the
Minister. The NTS recommended the reorganization of TPTC along the usual
pattern adopted for ministries of public works and transport. The matter has
been discussed with the Government, which recognizes that the present phase of
revitalization of key functions would have to be followed by regroupment and
rationalization. However, most of the new agencies and services are still in
the formative stage and should be strengthened before a formal reorganization
is undertaken. This point would be reviewed with the Government during project
implementation in coordination with other lending agencies.
D.   Planning
1.10      CONADEP plays a central role in planning; it defines national devel-
opment strategy and reviews, consolidates and coordinates the proposals of
various ministries and agencies. SAT has, since late 1975, provided the basis



- 4 -
to develop sectoral planning capacity. It cooperated with CONADEP on resched-
uling the NTS projects, consolidating them with urban transport projects and
including other Government priorities to form the transport sector investment
program for the current 1976-1981 Plan. SAT has subsequently been involved in
project preparation (para 2.11). SAT should, over coming years, develop its
planning function on a continuous and systematic basis. The outline of SAT's
work program in the field of transport planning for the period 1978-1980 was
reviewed and agreed during negotiations; such work program would include,
in particular: (a) the revision and periodic updating of the Government's
transport investment program and analysis of related funding requirements;
(b) the systematic collection of statistical information on the operations of
the transport system; and (c) economic and financial assessment of investment
proposals with estimated costs above U$1 million equivalent.
1.11      The adoption of the 1976-1981 Plan substantially complied with
undertakings agreed under IDA Credit 556-HA for the formulation of a transport
investment plan. An additional measure of continuity would be necessary to
maintain the planning framework in order to pursue long-term objectives such
as the development of coastal shipping and the strengthening of road mainte-
nance. The transport component of the 1976-1981 Plan needs updating in
several respects. Year-by-year financial requirements should be re-evaluated
and reviewed against estimates of available resources. At present, neither
CONADEP nor TPTC maintains consolidated projections of budgetary requirements
for the sector. The policy and criteria embodied in the plan have not been
used in a systematic way in the evaluation and design of new investment pro-
posals. During negotiations, the Government undertook to: (a) prepare and
adopt, after consultation with IDA, an updated transport investment program
for the 1978-1983 period, and (b) to update such program annually.
1.12      Since 1973, the Government has sponsored semi-annual meetings of
external international agencies and Government agencies involved in the trans-
port sector. These meetings have proved useful in facilitating the necessary
coordination of external assistance and informing interested agencies of
programs, progress and problems. The Government intends to continue this
practice over the project period.
E.   Financing
1.13      The financial situation of the transport sector is generally sound.
Revenues currently collected from road user charges are adequate to cover the
operation and maintenance of road transportation infrastructure and facilities
(para 2.22). User charges at international ports cover operating, maintenance
and capital costs, and the international airport's charges also cover its
operations and maintenance. Counterpart funds for externally financed devel-
opment projects are provided through special allocations and through a Matching
Fund to which 5% of general revenues are channeled. This mechanism has
generally ensured adequate local financing.
1.14      The construction or reconstruction of basic infrastructure under-
taken since 1972 has resulted in a high level of investment in the transport
sector. Annual expenditures for large transport projects have, over the
period 1974-1977, averaged about US$30 million equivalent, accounting for 24%



- 5 -
to 47% of the annual development expenditures. About 75% of transport sector
investment has been financed externally (US$84 million). The current
Development Plan 1976-1981 (September 1976) projects a diminishing level of
transport sector expenditures tapering off at about US$10 million equivalent
per year (Table 1.1), reflecting the transition from the 1972-1977 nhase of
reconstruction to a phase of improved maintenance and gradual upgrading in
support of a higher level of investment for agricultural production and other
priority sectors.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      The intercity road network totals close to 3,725 km of motorable
roads, of which about 750 km are paved (or currently being paved); 1,550 km
are surfaced with natural gravel; and the balance are earth tracks, most of
them less than 4.5 m wide. The generally poor condition of unpaved roads
still reflects the total lack of maintenance throughout the 1960s and in
the early 1970s. Since 1974, Government efforts in road rehabilitation and
expanded maintenance services have checked road deterioration and restored a
minimum level of serviceability on much of the primary network. Traffic on
some important roads has, however, been interrupted by bridge failures. Haiti
has a large number of aging steel bridges built more than 50 years ago. Three
major bridges have collapsed during the past five years; others are seriously
damaged or in precarious condition. Small bridges have become unserviceable.
Paved fords on lightly traveled roads often need major repair.
2.02      Improvement of existing roads and bridges through maintenance and
rehabilitation has the highest priority in the road transport subsector. This
priority is reflected, together with the Government policy of promoting secon-
dary development poles outside the Port-au-Prince area, in the road component
of the current 1976-1981 Development Plan, which includes:
-    a comprehensive maintenance program;
-    rehabilitation of about 915 km of unpaved roads;
-    reconstruction and strengthening of about 130 km of wornout
paved roads; and
-    upgrading of 200 km of primary and secondary roads, as justified
by the projected level of traffic.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
2.03      In 1977, the motor vehicle fleet numbered about 24,300 units, of
which slightly less than 90% were registered in Port-au-Prince.   Vehicle
ownership is about five vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, which is among the
lowest in the Latin American and Caribbean region. The NTS reported 23,300
vehicles in 1975:  15% cargo trucks, 22% public passenger vehicles and 63%



- 6 -
cars and jeeps. Accurate statistics of vehicle registration over the years
are not available, but NTS analysis indicates that, between 1970 and 1975, the
expansion of the fleet averaged about 10% p.a., with the number of cars and
jeeps growing at about 6.6% and commercial vehicles growing at 20%.
2.04      PowL-au-Prince is the hub of the road transport system.  The origin
and destination surveys conducted during the NTS showed that 64% of all trips,
carrying 85% of total tonnage and 72% of total passengers, had their origin or
destination in Port-au-Prince. Almost half of the vehicles carry a combination
of goods and passengers. Traffic flows are largely concentrated on a few main
roads. About half of the network carries less than 10 vehicles per day (vpd),
10% carries between 10 and 50 vpd, and 40% carries more than 50 vpd. Substan-
tial tonnages are carried by human portage and pack animals, mostly along
country trails.
2.05      The results of recent counts along the newly reconstructed primary
roads show traffic growth in the first two years of service of 15% to 20%,
which is well above previous trends and suggests important development of
generated traffic. The NTS projected future demand for road transport service
on major links, taking into account planned development programs. Projected
long-term traffic growth ranges between 4% and 8% per year for goods transporta-
tion and would average about 8% for public passenger transport and about 11% for
private vehicles. These rates seem well founded and reflect the anticipated
growth of economic production.
C.   Traffic Regulation and Road Transport Services
2.06      The road transport industry is subject to minimum regulation.  Inter-
urban tariffs for passengers and freight are competitive. Entry into the
industry is free. Most of the entrepreneurs offering inter-urban transport
services for passengers and freight are owner-operators. The few firms with
small truck fleets are mainly haulers for construction and other industries.
Credit for commercial operators is available through banks and dealers. The
only requirement for transport entrepreneurs is to register formally with
the police and to obtain a special license plate. There are no restrictions
on licensing. Third party insurance is compulsory for all vehicles in Haiti.
Urban transport and tariffs are also largely unregulated, with no restrictions
on entry. Small buses and "tap-taps" 1/ dominate urban public transport in
Port-au-Prince. Taxi service in Port-au-Prince operates with standard tariffs
set by the Department of Labor and enforced by the Police.
2.07      NTS load surveys suggest that overloading has not yet become a serious
problem. In fact, the deteriotated condition of many roads has, up to now,
acted as a deterrent against overloading. There is no doubt, however, that
the competitive pressure of the industry and the improved condition of recon-
structed primary roads would lead to overloading. In compliance with under-
takings agreed with IDB and with IDA under Credit 478-HA and Credit 556-HA,
the Government enacted adequate regulations to limit the vehicle weights,
1/   Pickup trucks fitted with locally fabricated, rear-loading passenger
cabins seating 10 to 12 persons.



dimensions and axle loads. Enforcement of the regulations will be initiated
shortly on the Southern Road, with scales purchased with IDB financing, and
TPTC is acquiring additional mobile scales for use on other roads. Credit
478-HA calls for enforcement of axle load limits at appropriate locations on
national roads by June 30, 1978. The Government is preparing measures to
initiate axle load control on the Northern Road and has been training personnel
for this work as part of the IDB-assisted program on the Southern Road. The
scope and schedule of the Government program for enforcement of vehicle weight
regulations, in compliance with Credit 478-HA and Credit 556-HA, was reviewed
and agreed at the time of negotiations. The Government confirmed that vehicle
weight regulations on the Northern Road would be enforced in accordance with
an agreed program, starting August 31, 1978.
D.   Highway Administration
2.08      TPTC (para 1.08) is responsible for Highway Administration.  TPTC
was originally organized with four headquarter directorates and one regional
directorate managing ten field offices headed by Regional Engineers. Since
1974, three additional services have been added to this structure: (a) the
National Laboratory, responsible for materials testing and standards; (b) the
Construction Service and Coordination Unit, responsible for contract super-
vision; and (c) SAT, responsible for planning and engineering. The responsi-
bility for highway maintenance was entrusted to an autonomous agency, the
Service d' Entretien Permanent du-Reseau Routier National (SEPRRN). The
super-imposition of new agencies over an old organizational structure has led
to problems of coordination and liaison which were reviewed in paragraph 1.09.
In fact, highway matters are very much in the hands of the new central services
and do not suffer excessively from the current deficiencies of the TPTC organ-
ization.  The Regional Engineers, who are the Minister's field representatives
with respect to highways, now perform mostly a role of liaison with other
Governmental services and regional authorities. As TPTC moves away from large
construction projects to small betterments, their executive responsibilities
would be strengthened.
2.09      The National Laboratory provides materials testing support services
for design, construction and maintenance of all civil works, including private
construction, at established rates. It is financially autonomous and provides
training courses to TPTC inspection staff. It has received support from FAC,
which finances technical assistance by the Centre d'Etude du Batiment et des
Travaux Publics (CEBTP), which has provided one engineer to assume the
function of co-director.
2.10      The number of engineers and architects employed by TPTC (not includ-
ing SEPRRN, para 2.17) totals about 165, of which about 70 are primarily in-
volved with intercity roads; Construction Services has about 60 (of which
about 20 are with the Coordination Unit), SAT seven and Laboratory two. Most
have graduated from the polytechnic school or the University of Port-au-Prince,
and some have received additional training and experience in the US or France.
In principle, this number should provide TPTC with adequate professional ex-
pertise and managerial capacity. This, however, is not fully the case for two
main reasons. In view of the relatively low level of salaries, it is common
for TPTC engineers and technical staff to share their professional life between
TPTC and another occupation. The present organization of TPTC has not favored



the development of modern management procedures and technical practices. The
question of compensation and work procedures would be taken up in the context
of the eventual reorganization of TPTC (para 1.09).
E.   Highway Planning and Engineering
2.11      SAT assumes the dual function of a sectoral planning unit (para 1.05)
and a highway planning and engineering office. In the field of highways, SAT
is responsible for the systematic collection of traffic data, updating the road
inventory, planning and programming highway improvements, and programming
highway expenditures. The organization and staffing proposed for SAT foresaw
project engineering and design being done mostly by consultants with super-
vision and coordination ensured by SAT. Since its establishment, SAT has been
involved in preparing the transport inputs for the current National Development
Plan and in supervising the consulting services for the proposed project.
SAT has also conducted annual traffic counts and is preparing designs of
street improvements in Port-au-Prince. The development of SAT's activities
would be pursued under the project (para 1.10).
2.12      Engineering for major road projects has been prepared by foreign
consultants. Over the last few years, small domestic firms have begun to be
organized by US-educated Haitien engineers and are starting to participate in
project preparation. It is expected that, in the future, most of the routine
engineering work would be done by domestic firms associated with foreign
firms.
F.   Highway Construction
2.13      Most highway construction is undertaken by international contractors
or by Government work forces. Prior to 1955, United States contractors were
employed in the reconstruction of a network built before 1935. During the
1955-1970 period, no major road construction was undertaken, but limited small-
scale works were constructed by Government forces. When the resurgence of
highway construction activity started in the 1970's, the local road construc-
tion industry was practically non-existent. All major road construction pro-
jects since 1972 have been awarded to international contractors (French,
Canadian and American) with limited subcontracting participation of local firms.
Highway construction costs are relatively high. The considerable incidence of
mountainous terrain makes road construction a difficult task. In the plains,
good road building materials are scarce and haul-distances from borrow pits
and quarries tend to be long. These factors alone, however, do not account
completely for the high cost of roadworks; other factors include limited
competition due to the small size of the market, high risks perceived by
contractors, and high mobilization costs.
2.14      The need to foster the development of a competitive local road con-
struction industry was recognized at the time of appraisal of the Third Highway
Project in 1974, and a study of local contractor capability was included in the
NTS. The NTS recommended increased use of local construction capability and
emphasized the need for a parallel development of TPTC capacity to manage and



- 9 -
administer local contracting and consulting services. The Government is now
initiating a program supported by USAID (US$5 million loan, US$2.4 million
grant, 1977) for the rehabilitation of agricultural roads that will be executed
by Government construction brigades (600 km) and local contractors (300 km).
The program envisages leasing of equipment to local contractors and also pro-
vides for developing the use of labor-intensive methods in construction of
feeder and penetration roads and in incorporating this type of construction
into the Government's overall road development program. Civil works under
the proposed project's road component would offer opportunities for partici-
pation of local firms but would not be as appropriate as the agricultural
roads project for testing labor-intensive methods and their suitability for
future projects in Haiti.
2.15      TPTC's Construction Service is responsible for management and
supervision of construction. Supervision of large reconstruction contracts
has been entrusted to consultants. The Construction Service was formed with
IDB support, starting in 1974, to coordinate, standardize and manage the work
of these consultants and to initiate TPTC participation in the supervision of
construction of the Southern Road. The Construction Service is short of
experienced staff, but has gained valuable experience from the current major
projects. TPTC intends to continue to rely on experienced consulting firms
for the management and supervision of large civil works contracts, but with
TPTC staff integrated within the consultants' work forces.
G.   Highway Maintenance
2.16      After a number of inadequate efforts to maintain and rehabilitate
the highway network during the 1950-1960 period, which ended by focusing upon
road reconstruction, the Government recognized the need for a completely new
road maintenance organization. A decree of March 3, 1972 created the National
Road Maintenance Service (SEPRRN) as an autonomous agency solely responsible
for road maintenance. A detailed study of technical and administrative improve-
ments needed to build up SEPRRN was completed in 1973 with UNDP financing. On
this basis, the Government undertook a program to expand maintenance operations,
with USAID providing financing for advisory services, equipment and installation
of workshops (US$3.15 million in loan and US$1.78 million in grant). The
primary objective of the so-called Phase I program was to develop an adequate
capability to maintain primary roads. Progess was slower than anticipated,
especially in staff training and the expansion of field operations. In 1975,
SEPRRN prepared and adopted a Five-Year Maintenance Program, 1975-1980, which
is still in effect and which is supported by adequate budgetary allocations.
2.17      SEPRRN is headed by a Director General responsible to an administra-
tive council chaired by the Minister of TPTC, with the Minister of Finance
and Economic Affairs a member. It receives and accounts for a separate
budget with the assistance of the National Bank. SEPRRN owns its equipment,
now totaling about 180 units with a replacement value of US$3 to 4 million,
operates its workshops (one central and two regional) and is presently
building up its field organization throughout the regions. Its personnel
number about 800, of whom about 450 are untrained field laborers. SEPRRN has
about 20 engineers, of whom nine were trained in the US under the Phase I
program. The major bottleneck for adequate road maintenance is not so much



- 10 -
the lack of physical resources and funds but the insufficient capacity of
SEPRRN which, over the next five years, should at least double its work force
and upgrade it through training.
2.18      The Government plans to pursue the strengthening and expansion of
SEPRRN and ha. obtained further assistance from USAID (US$8.6 million in grant,
November 1977) for advisory services and equipment to undertake a second pro-
gram over the period 1977-1980. The Phase II program would support the planned
expansion of maintenance activities over'the remaining three years of the Five-
Year Program. It would, in particular, establish additional field districts
and workshops. The Phase II program would also test the possibility of main-
taining local roads by labor-intensive methods through community councils. The
Phase II program is being supplemented by the rehabilitation program mentioned
in paragraph 2.14. These two USAID-supported programs represent as much as TPTC
and SEPRRN can reasonably handle, in the next few years, in the field of road
maintenance and rehabilitation.
2.19      Although IDA is not providing direct support for road maintenance,
it has consistently stressed the need to build up adequate maintenance capacity
and has made it clear to the Government that improvement in road maintenance
was a prerequisite for continued IDA support of road improvement. The adoption
of the Five-Year Maintenance Program met one of the requirements of Credit 556-HA.
The Government, however, has initiated only limited action to comply with specific
measures agreed under that Credit to ensure the maintenance of the Northern
Road. The Northern Road was appropriately designed as a low-cost road, and
its maintenance by SEPRRN should be initiated directly when the contractor's
responsibility terminates, i.e., approximately by mid-1978. SEPRRN has initiated
roadside maintenance along portions of the road but has not yet started pavement
maintenance. SEPRRN is now planning specific measures to expand its capacity
as necessary to ensure the full maintenance of the Northern Road, as required
under Credit 556-HA. These measures, as well as the specific schedules of
maintenance activities required for the Northern Road in the framework of the
Five-Year Maintenance Program, were reviewed and agreed at the time of
negotiations.
2.20      The scope of the USAID Phase II program and the accompanying commit-
ments concerning funding of SEPRRN's annual maintenance program are generally
adequate but should be expanded in two important aspects: (a) specific roads
to be brought under full maintenance each year should be defined and (b) the
training component should be strengthened. Measures to remedy these points
have been discussed with the Government and USAID and were confirmed at the
time of negotiations. In particular, the Government undertook to:
(a) cause its national highway system to be maintained adequately
as provided for in the Five-Year Maintenance Program already
agreed under Credit 556-HA;
(b) prepare, no later than December 31, 1978, the schedule of
specific road sections to be brought under continued mainte-
nance during the period 1979 to 1982 (this would serve as a
common base for estimating funding requirements, measuring
performance and planning training needs); and



- 11 -
(c)  establish within SEPRRN, no later than December 31, 1978,
a separate training unit responsible for recruitment, train-
ing and personnel policies, and to support such a unit
with adequate resources, including technical assistance, in
accordance with a staffing plan and a work program for the
periou 1979-1982 acceptable to IDA.
H.   Highway Financing
2.21      Payroll and administrative expenditures of TPTC and SEPRRN are
financed from the general budget. Investment outlays and SEPRRN operating
expenditures for road maintenance are financed from the development budget,
which includes external financing and is managed by the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Affairs and CONADEP. The different accounts kept by TPTC and the
Ministry of Finance do not provide direct estimates of total expenditures by
projects or classes of activities. Table 2.1 shows the estimated level of
highway expenditures over the past four years FY1974-FY1977; the increase has
been dramatic, from less than US$7 million in FY1973/74 to slightly less than
US$40 million in FY1975/76 and FY1976/77, reflecting the implementation of
large reconstruction projects. About 72% of these expenditures have been
financed externally. Table 2.2 shows estimates of highway expenditures over
the next four years (FY1978-FY1981), considering only planned projects and
programs. Highway outlays would average about US$31 million over the FY1978/79
period and about US$15.5 million in FY1979/80. External contributions would
amount to about 60% of the total.
2.22      Over the last four years, Government revenues from road user charges
(Table 2.3) have increased substantially, from about US$5 million to US$12
million, reflecting traffic growth as well as recent increases in import duties.
Only a portion of this revenue is actually reserved for use on highways. The
remainder goes into general funds from which additional highway funds are pro-
vided in accordance with the budget. The user charge revenues, however, have
generally been sufficient to cover the national portion of investment outlays
in addition to operating and maintenance expenditures. In the future, user
charges revenues would continue to exceed operating and maintenance costs and
would by FY1979/80, cover projected level of capital outlays as well. This
analysis, based on aggregate estimates, suggests that the present level of road
user charges is broadly adequate in relation to the level of subsector expenditures.
III. THE COASTAL SHIPPING SUBSECTOR
A.   The Present Coastal Shipping System
3.01      Haiti has a shoreline of 1,530 km, or more than 1 km for every 20 km2
of land area. With numerous coastal population centers and an island economy,
waterborne transport has traditionally played an important role in Haiti.
After the termination of international shipping directly to and from some of
the smaller ports in the 1950s, and the deterioration of the existing road
system in the 1960s, the importance of domestic coastal shipping as an
internal transport mode has increased. While there has been little Government
support for the subsector and competition from road transport has increased
in the last few years, the coastal shipping industry has maintained a high



- 12 -
level of vitality. There are at present some 580 sailing ships ranging in
size from under 10 tons to over 60 tons capacity, and about 30 motorships with
an average carrying capacity of 123 tons. It is estimated that this fleet has
a carrying capacity of over 150 million ton-km annually and actually carries
nearly one-fifth of domestic freight tonnage (or 29% in ton-km) moved. Most
of the vessels are individually owned and many are owner-operated.
3.02      The operating conditions for the coastal shipping fleet are extremely
poor. Major problem areas for the industry are:
(a) the inadequacy of existing ports, even for small vessels;
(b) unsafe conditions of most of the fleet due to primitive vessel
construction methods and the lack of maintenance and repair
facilities;
(c) the inability to obtain insurance coverage for vessels and
cargo; and
(d) the absence of aids to navigation and of provisions for
assistance to vessels in distress.
3.03      Fifty coastal shipping terminal points were identified in the
course of the NTS. The largest of these is Port-au-Prince, where APP (whose
functions and responsibilities are described in paragraphs 3.11 to 3.16) built
a wooden pier for coastal shipping services in 1973; this facility, highly
congested in peak traffic, is the hub of the present coastal shipping system.
The characteristics of 12 other coastal shipping ports that play a significant
role in the present system are given in Table 3.1. The remaining 37 terminals
are anchorages without significant terminal facilities, where cargo is handled
over the beach or by small lighters.
3.04      While there are several agencies responsible for port functions in
Haiti (para 3.11), there is at present no entity directly concerned with other
aspects of development of the maritime subsector. There is also no effective
legislation setting standards for safety of the coastal merchant fleet or
encouraging the formation of shipping lines. There is no organization for
collecting domestic traffic statistics on shipping or for studying costs and
tariffs, and the naval services presently charged with maintenance of buoys
and lighthouses have not proved effective.
B.   Improvement of Coastal Shipping
3.05      The NTS concluded that projected volumes of traffic in coastal ship-
ping would justify investment in port improvements and in modernization of the
fleet. Recommendations for coastal shipping foresee a fleet of locally con-
structed motorized vessels, somewhat larger and better built than at present,
operating on fixed routes and schedules and receiving regular maintenance,
repairs and insurance. Vessels of 100- to 200-ton capacity are envisaged to
carry both freight and passengers on major routes. However, traditional
coastal shipping, by sailboats, would continue to play an important role as
feeder service and for certain commodities (e.g., salt).



- 13 -
3.06      To accommodate such coastal shipping traffic, the NTS proposed
improvement of port facilities at 19 coastal locations. Some of these ports
already have facilities for berthing or lighterage operations, but none would
be able to provide efficient service to the larger and more modern vessels
that are proposed. While it is not proposed to change the present labor-
intensive methods of cargo handling at coastal shipping ports, future facil-
ities are to provide access for trucks to the vicinity of berths where vessels
with drafts of up to 4 m could come alongside. Provision of paved and covered
areas for cargo storage in transit is also envisioned. The NTS further recom-
mended the institution by the Government of a system of regular inspection
and compulsory insurance for the modernized coastal shipping fleet, a coastal
rescue service, and the provision of channel markers.
3.07      The Government accepted the recommendations of the NTS and decided
to go forward with improvements for coastal shipping. However, the lack of
Governmental agencies capable of dealing with this mode of transport presents
a major impediment to such development. It was therefore decided to initiate
a pilot project that would establish the feasibility of expanding the juris-
diction and responsibilities of the present APP (future APN, see para 3.17)
from Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien to the smaller ports that serve coastal
shipping in outlying areas. The pilot project would provide improvements at
three terminals of key importance to the future development of coastal
shipping: Port-au-Prince, Jeremie and Port de Paix (see Chapter VII).
3.08      The improvement of other ports for coastal shipping is foreseen in
a future stage, following (a) a comprehensive review of the system to deter-
mine the most economical service improvements and the priority ranking of
possible improvements to remaining ports, and (b) establishment within APN
of adequate institutional capability to handle the development and operation
of additional ports. Direct support necessary for development of the coastal
shipping fleet and related services are also foreseen (paras 3.25-3.26).
C.   Characteristics of Traffic
3.09      The total annual volume of cargo handled by coastal shipping is a
relatively modest 125,000 tons, of which 85,000 tons have Port-au-Prince as
origin or destination. The largest share of passengers and cargo is carried
by motor vessels, which have a cost advantage over sailing ships in spite of
low labor costs in Haiti. The share of coastal shipping in domestic transport
has been declining, despite competitive costs, as a result of road improvements
and the development of road transport services. Coastal traffic, as reflected
in the tonnages handled in the hub of the system, Port-au-Prince, has increased
by an average of 1.6% per year over the past 15 years. This traffic falls
into two categories: (a) the movement of goods and passengers to or from parts
of Haiti that are inaccessible by road; and (b) the movement of relatively
low-value, non-perishable commodities in direct competition with road services,
where sea transport is cheaper. Examples of the first category are shipments
to and from Jeremie, where cargo traffic has grown 6% annually in the past few
years, and to and from the two islands, Tortue and Gonave. An example of the
second category is Port-de-Paix traffic to and from Port-au-Prince or Cap
Haitien (Map 13293).



- 14 -
3.10      The ports in the Anse Rouge region (south side of the northern
peninsula) provide 39% of the cargo to Port-au-Prince, mainly salt, charcoal
and wood. Mole St. Nicolas and Gonaives (also in the north) provide 11%
(charcoal) and 8% (vegetables, salt), respectively. Of the southern ports,
Jeremie is mist important, with 16% of shipments to Port-au-Prince (coffee,
cacao, fruits and vegetables), and the coast from Pestel to Anse-a-Veau
provides another 13% (construction materials and charcoal). Outbound from
Port-au-Prince, the southern ports are receiving 60% of the total cargo, with
Jeremie alone receiving 30%. The main commodities are cement, flour, gasoline,
construction materials and industrial products. Other relatively important
traffic flows are between Port-au-Prince and Gonave Island and between
Port-de-Paix and both Tortue Island and Cap Haitien.
D.   Port Administration and Development
3.11      The Haitian Customs Code of 1962 recognizes 25 ports, of which
12 are designated as open to foreign trade. Of the latter, only the two
largest ports (Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien) are at present administered by
APP; the remaining 10 are administered by the Customs Service, which is in
charge of vessel clearance, collection of duties and the provision of
facilities and services. The 13 other ports, used for coastal trade, are under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Internal Revenue Service, which collects
a franchise tax on Haitian flag vessels and handles vessel clearance and
control.
3.12      The APP is a public service agency created in June 1973 and functions
under the supervision of the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Policy
decisions of APP are approved by a Special Council, chaired by this Minister;
other members of this Council are the Minister of Commerce and Industry, the
Minister of TPTC, the Director General of BNRH, and the Director of Tourism.
3.13      Besides its specific powers and responsibilities to operate and
maintain the international port facilities at Port-au-Prince, APP has the
following mandate under present laws with regard to other ports of the country:
(a)  to organize coastal shipping in the port area and in the Bay of
Port-au-Prince and to develop the regulations pertaining to it
(to this end, APP opened the coastal trade facilities at
Cite Simone Duvalier in 1975); and
(b)  to manage and operate other port facilities in Haiti at the
discretion of the Government (under this provision, APP was given
responsibility for the administration and operation of facilities
at the Port of Cap Haitien).
3.14      The day-to-day management and operation of APP is the responsibility
of the Director General, assisted by the Directors of Port Operations,
Technical Services, Administrative Services, and Port Security. The manage-
ment and operation of the facilities at Cite Simone Duvalier and at Cap
Haitien are separate management units under the direct supervision of the
Director General of APP. Chart I shows the present organization of APP
according to the law of June 1973.



- 15 -
3.15      APP has a staff of over 670 employees.  More than 500 of these are
in the Port Operations and Port Security Departments. The Technical Services
Department of APP has a staff of 25, including three professional engineers.
The Administrative Services Department of APP has a staff of 94, including
several qualified accountants.
3.16      At present, APP is engaged in a major port improvement program at
Port-au-Prince (para 1.04). This program includes the construction of new
foreign trade facilities (at a cost of US$20 million, partly financed by IDB)
consisting of a two-berth marginal wharf for general cargo and container move-
ments; it also initiated reconstruction of the existing foreign trade pier at
Port-au-Prince, at a cqst of US$5 million, and several projects for the
rehabilitation and improvement of support facilities, such as repair of the
coastal shipping pier at Cite Simone Duvalier and of lighthouses, with a total
value of about US$1 million. APP will invest a total of US$7 million from its
own resources in these projects during the next two years.
3.17      During negotiations, the Government presented drafts of proposed
legislation that would (a) change the title and function of the APP to that of
a National Port Authority (APN); (b) expand its authority to cover coastal
shipping ports, starting with the pilot project ports at Jeremie and Port-de-
Paix; and (c) give the APN increased autonomy in conformance with stipulations
of the IDB loan agreements. These drafts were reviewed for adequacy during
negotiations, and the Government undertook to create the new APN.
E.   Port Financing
3.18      Traditionally, public port facilities for coastal shipping in Haiti
have been provided by the Government free of charge; while customs duties are
collected at these facilities (as at private terminals) on imports and exports
and certain fees are paid by vessel owners for registration, there are gener-
ally no charges for vessel entry into port, dockage, anchorage, wharfage or
passenger movements. The only exception is the small dockage fee at the coastal
shipping pier in Port-au-Prince (para 3.24). On the other hand, at its inter-
national terminal at Port-au-Prince, APP levies user charges comparable to those
of ports in other countries and thereby generates revenues that more than cover
expenses.
(i) Financial Performance of APP
3.19      APP is an efficient organization; its financial condition is satis-
factory, and, while it is exempt from all taxes, it does not need financial
assistance from the Government for its present operations. The revenues
generated from international port terminals cover the full cost of operations
and debt service charges and leave a surplus at the end of the year. The
financial results of the past four years are shown (together with financial
forecasts) in Annex 1.
3.20      APP's accounting system is good, and its financial statements are
prepared in a commercial manner. A port cost accounting system was developed
in 1976 by management consultants. This system is to be implemented in



- 16 -
accordance with the loan agreement between APP and IDB (para 3.23), which
requires increases in port tariffs to cover all operating costs and a reason-
able profit for future capital expenditures.
3.21      An annual budget is prepared by the Controller General of APP and
submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Director General of BNRH for
approval. The accounts are audited satisfactorily by an independent auditing
firm, which is approved by IDB under its existing loan agreement.
(ii) Financial Obligations of APP
3.22      APP has received total financing of US$17.5 million from IDB (a loan
of US$10.0 million in 1972 and a loan of US$7.5 million in 1975) for the con-
struction and improvement of the international port at Port-au-Prince. Inter-
est on the loans is payable semiannually at the rate of 1% per year until 1985
and 2% thereafter. The amortization payments begin after 10 years grace -- in
1983 for the first loan and in 1986 for the second loan. APP is also obliged
to pay guarantee premiums to the Government each year by transferring to BNRH
3% of the outstanding balance of the loan amounts; these funds are to be used
for counterpart payments on other development projects. 1/
3.23      Under the terms of the loan agreement with IDB, APP is restricted
from entering into any new long-term loan contract without the prior authoriza-
tion of IDB and cannot use its funds on any other than port projects. APP
contributed US$3.3 million from its own resources for construction of the new
terminal at Port-au-Prince and, in the fall of 1977, entered into a supplemen-
tary contract for rehabilitation of the existing pier at this port, committing
an additional US$5 million of its own resources for the next two years.
3.24      APP's financial obligations for the port at Cap Haitien are to
operate and maintain the existing terminal; revenue from this source is at
present limited to a portion (20%) of the head tax collected on all cruise
ship passengers, but the possibility of Government equity contributions
for repair of the existing dock is also being discussed at present. In
addition, APP operates coastal trade facilities at Cite Simone Duvalier,
in Port-au-Prince. The dockage charge at this port, which was established by
Decree in March 1975, is small and the revenues do not cover the operating
costs.
F.   Fleet Development
3.25      In addition to port improvements, development of Haiti's coastal
shipping subsector, as envisaged in the NTS, would require direct financial
and technical assistance and other support services to the coastal shipping
fleet. Foreign assistance for this purpose is expected to be available in
several areas that were discussed during appraisal. UNDP is interested in
1/   For tabulation of APP's debt service and premium payments, see page 3 of
Annex 1.



- 17 -
providing financial support to the coastal shipping fleet through its Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF); technical assistance and training for vessel operators
is also being considered by UNDP. In addition, bilateral aid agencies (US,
France and Germany) have discussed with the Government the possibility of pro-
viding assistance for the installation and maintenance of navigational aids
and for the establishment of rescue services and vessel repair facilities.
The need for such assistance would be evaluated further under Phase I of the
comprehensive systems review included in the proposed project (paras 3.08 and
7.10). In the long run, however, an institutional framework for guidance and
support functions to coastal shipping services would be required.
3.26      The consultants retained for organization and financial studies
during preparation of the proposed project recommended that these functions
become the responsibility of a new Government agency governed by the same Board
of Directors as APN. The functions envisaged for this agency would be to
analyze merchant shipping needs; regulate the national merchant fleet; inspect
and license vessels; promote fleet development (including assistance in
financing and insurance of vessels); provide for a system to assist vessels in
distress; control the ship-building industry; and design, install and maintain
navigation aids. The Government is reviewing these recommendations and has
indicated that it is prepared to make the necessary institutional changes
within a year after the completion of the UNDP study (para 3.25).
IV. PAST AND ONGOING IDA ASSISTANCE TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
4.01      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's fifth in Haiti's
highway sector and the first in its coastal shipping sector. The first and
second highway projects (one Bank loan and one IDA credit) were undertaken in
1956 and 1962. IDA involvement in highways resumed in 1974 within the frame-
work of the 1972-1976 National Development Plan. IDA also supported transport
planning, and the Bank was Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed NTS, which
has provided the framework for a further improvement of road maintenance and
rehabilitation of secondary roads as well as the proposed project.
4.02      The first operation was a Bank loan (Loan 141-HA, US$2.6 million,
May 1956) for a Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project comprising reorganiza-
tion and expansion of road maintenance and rehabilitation of about 1,000 km
of roads. The second operation was an IDA Credit (Credit 32-HA, US$350,000
November 1962) for an Interim Highway Project to complete works undertaken under
the first project. The first operation started with delays, and it was not
until 1959 that the "Service Special d'Entretien et d'Amelioration des Routes"
was established. Improvements were short-lived, and maintenance practically
disintegrated after 1963, a factor that led again to widespread deterioration
of the network.
4.03      IDA participated in the reconstruction efforts launched in 1972
through two complementary projects.  The Third Highway Project (Credit 478-HA,
US$10 million, June 1974) included the reconstruction of 150 km of the Northern
Road (Port-au-Prince-Cap Haitien) and of the River Estere Bridge. As a result



- 18 -
of substantial bid overruns, the scope of the roadwork was reduced, with the
Executive Director's approval, to 80 km. The reconstruction of the remaining
170 km of the Northern Road and the replacement of the Sonde Bridge on the
Artibonite River constituted the main element of the Fourth Highway ProJect
(Credit 556-HA, US$20 million, September 1975). The Third Highway Project
also included the NTS (para 1.05). The Fourth Highway Project provided
preinvestment studies for preparation of the proposed project.
4.04      The reconstruction of the Northern Road was awarded to two large
French contractors, DUMEZ and COLAS. Work has advanced ahead of schedule.
Estimated completion cost is well within the revised estimates. The recon-
struction of the Limbe Bridge was added to the initial scope of work. These
contracts are practically completed. Complementary improvements (shoulder
paving and retaining walls, roadside markers and road signing and markings)
now under way will be completed by mid-1978. Construction supervision was
ensured by the consultant firm INGEROUTE (France). The same consultant, in
joint venture with the Haitian firm SOHICCO, was retained in 1977 to carry
out, over the period February to December 1977, preinvestment studies for the
proposed project. US consultants James C. Buckley Inc. prepared the financial/
organization study for the coastal shipping component of the project.
4.05      The progress made toward the objectives of the Third and Fourth
Highway Projects in highway maintenance and transport planning has been re-
viewed above (paras 2.11 and 2.16). In the framework of the proposed project,
IDA would continue, in close coordination with other external lenders, to
stress these objectives with special attention to the training of road main-
tenance personnel (para 2.20).
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
5.01      The Government development strategy for transport recognizes the
need (a) to optimize investments through proper balance between road transport
and coastal shipping and between maintenance and new construction; and (b) to
overcome the isolation of outlying areas and extend the benefits of development
to regional centers. The proposed project would support these objectives. It
would provide:
(a) improvement of secondary roads linking areas of agricultural
importance with regional centers;
(b) reconstruction of major bridges that serve as "gateways" to the
northwest and northeast of the country; and



- 19 -
(c)  the modernization of three coastal ports and related institu-
tional measures as an initial step to develop more fully the
potential of coastal shipping.
5.02      The project would have two components:
(a)  The road and bridge component would include:
(i)  upgrading, including paving, of 54 km of priority roads
around Cap Haitien serving the northern plain (Map 13294);
(ii)  reconstruction of the Hyppolite Bridge connecting the
northeastern region with Cap Haitien and the Northern
Road (Map 13294);
(iii)  replacement of the severely deteriorated Trois Rivieres
Bridge connecting the entire northwestern region with
the Northern Road (Map 13293);
(iv)  upgrading, to all-weather standards, of 12.8 km of agricul-
tural access roads linking Marche Leon with the coastal
shipping port of Jeremie (Map 13293); and
(v)  preinvestment studies to prepare a countrywide bridge
reconstruction and rehabilitation program and other
priority road projects.
(b) The coastal shipping port component would include:
(i)  improvement of three coastal shipping ports for motorized and
sailing vessels at Port-au-Prince (five berths at a new site),
Jeremie (four berths) and Port-de-Paix (two berths) (Maps 13293
and 13295);
(ii)  management advisory services to APP;
(iii)  a study of the further development of coastal shipping (in
two phases); and
(iv)  preinvestment studies for improvement of the port of Cap
Haitien.
The road and bridge component and the port component are detailed in Chapters VI
and VII respectively.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
5.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$20.5 million,
of which about US$15.0 million, representing the foreign exchange component,
would be financed by the proposed credit; the balance would be financed by the
Government, which has confirmed that adequate funds would be allocated for this



- 20 -
purpose. Civil works represent 83% of the estimated total, construction super-
vision 7% and preinvestment studies and final design the remaining 10%. The
first phase of the coastal shipping studies (US$160,000) is proposed to be
financed by a UNDP grant, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. The second
phase of the study would be financed by US$100,000 from the Government and by
US$400,000 from the proposed credit.
5.04      A summary of project costs is given on the following page.  Cost
estimates for the road and bridge component (except for the Hyppolite Bridge)
were prepared by consultants INGEROUTE-SOHICCO on the basis of quantities
derived from detailed engineering and current unit prices for similar works.
Estimates for the Hyppolite Bridge are based on actual quantities and costs
for a similar structure recently completed under the Fourth Highway Project
(para 4.03), adjusted for recent cost increases. Final designs will be
completed in May 1978. Quantities and cost estimates for port improvements
are based on preliminary engineering and use adjusted unit costs derived from
recent road and port construction contracts. Cost estimates for consulting
services are based on current man-month rates for similar services, except for
the design phase of the bridge rehabilitation program, which was estimated in
relation to the estimated cost of works to be engineered. All costs are
calculated free of taxes and duties since Haiti has exempted international
contractors and consultants from such duties.
5.05      The foreign exchange component of the civil works was estimated as
72%, assuming that civil works would be awarded to foreign firms with subcon-
tracting of minor structures and hauling of material to local firms. The
foreign exchange component under previous IDA-financed projects was estimated
at 76%. The foreign exchange component of consulting services for detailed
engineering of port improvements, for construction supervision, for pre-
investment studies and for advisory services was estimated, on the average, at
80%. The percentage for technical assistance and preinvestment studies would
be slightly higher, while that for engineering and supervision might be
somewhat below 80% because of the participation of local consulting firms and
TPTC staff in conjunction with foreign firms. Consulting services for detailed
engineering and construction supervision, preinvestment services and advisory
services would require about 485 man-months of professional services, of which
as much as 40% may be by Haitians; the average cost per man-month would be
about US$2,200 in the case of Haitian engineers and about US$6,900 for foreign
experts, which is consistent with current rates for similar services in other
countries.
5.06      A contingency allowance of 10% was used for all road and bridge
civil works except the Hyppolite Bridge, for which final engineering design
is still in progress, and for which the allowance was raised to 15% (Table 6.3).
A 15% contingency was also used for all port civil works. Contingencies
for price escalation were based on 9% annual increase through 1978 and 8%
annually thereafter on both local and external costs. Based upon the project
implementation schedule (Chart 2), the average estimated price escalation
throughout the implementation period amounted to about 12% of construction
costs.



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Pro.ject Costs
Estimated         IDA Participation
Local  Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign   Total    oreign Exchange            US$
(Gourdes Millions)            (US$ millions)          Component  %        Millions           %
A. Roads and Bridges
(a)  Civil Works                      15.50   39.80   55.30   3.10         7.96    11.06          72                7.96            72
(b)  Supervision                       1.10    4.45    5.55    .22          .89      1.11         80                  .89           80
Subtotal                     16.60   44.25   60.85   3.32          8.85    12.17                            8.85
(c)  Preinvestment Studies              .50    2.00    2.50    .10          .40       .50         80                 .40            80
Base Costs                    17.10   46.25   63.35   3.42         9.25    12.67                             9.25
B.  Ports and Coastal Shipping
(a)  Civil Works                       3.70    9.50   13.20    .74         1.90      2.64         72                1.90            72
(b)  Engineering and Supervision        .50    1.90    2.40    .10          .38       .48         80                  .38           80
Subtotal                      4.20   11.40   15.60    .84          2.28      3.12                           2.28
(c)  Preinvestment Studies 3/          1.10    4.40    5.50   0.22         0.88      1.10         80                  .88           80
(d)  Technical Assistance               .30    1.15    1.45    .o6          .23       .29         80                  .23           80
Base Costs                     5.60   16.95   22.55   1.12         3.39      4.51                           3.39
C. Contingencies
(a)  Physical, Roads (10% A(a) ) 1/ 1.65    4.30    5.95    .33             .86      1.19         72                  .86           72
(b)  Physical, Ports (15% B(a) )        .55    1.45    2.00    .11          .29       .4o          72                 .29           72
(c)  Price 2/                          2.35    6.05    8.40    .47         1.21      1.68         72                1.21            72
Subtotal                      4.55   11.80   16.35    .91          2.36      3.27                           2.36
TOTAL                                     27.25   75.00  102.25   5.45         15.00    20.45                           15.00            73
1/ For Hyppolite bridge 15% contingency was used, !ee 'able 6.3
2/ 9% through 1978 and 8% thereafter.
3/ UNDP is expected to provide an additional US$160,000 for the first phase of the coastal shipping development study.
Source: INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
January 1978



- 22 -
5.07      Disbursements of the credit would be made as follows:
(a)  72% of total expenditures for all civil works; and
(b)  80% of total expenditures for the consulting services
required for (i) supervision of construction,
(ii) detailed engineering and final design, and
(iii) studies and management advisory services.
Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is proposed for advanced contract-
ing of consulting services for final engineering design of the ports component,
starting in March 1978.
5.08      Implementation of the project is expected to take about three years
(1978-1981). The schedule for project implementation is shown on Chart 2 and
the estimated schedule of disbursements in Table 5.1.
C.   Execution and Procurement
5.09      TPTC would be responsible for the road and bridge component and APN
for the coastal shipping port component. Both agencies would be involved in
preinvestment studies which require transport planning. More specifically:
(a) for the road and bridge component:
-    TPTC's Construction Service would be responsible, with
the assistance of consultants, for engineering supervision
of road and bridge construction;
-    SAT would be responsible, with thi assistance of consultants,
for the bridge rehabilitatior/reccnstruction study and
for the subsequent detailed engineering.
(b) for the coastal shipping Port component:
-    APN's Technical Division would be responsible, with the
assistance of consultants, for the final design and for
construction supervision of contracts for port improvements;
-    APN would contract management advisory services;
-    APN, in coordination with SAT and other interested Government
agencies, would be responsible for the Cap Haitien port study
and would be the Government counterpart agency for the coastal
shipping development study.
5.10      Civil works construction for roads and bridges would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB) after prequalification of firms
in accordance with Bank/IDA Procurement Guidelines. For bidding purposes, the
road and bridge works would be divided into four lots. Prequalified firms
would be allowed to bid for any one or combination of lots; the proposed



- 23 -
division would allow maximum participation of local firms compatible with the
requirements for established capacity to ensure satisfactory implementation of
the project, especially bituminous pavement. Some local firms might be
prequalified only for certain lots with a ceiling corresponding to their
technical and financial capacity. Local firms would be entitled to a 7-1/2%
preference on bid evaluation. Provisions permitting submission of alternative
bridge designs would be included in the bid conditions. All bidders would be
requested to submit a fully documented bid for the design included in the
bidding documents. Civil works construction for the coastal shipping ports
would also be awarded through ICB after prequalification in acordance with the
Bank/IDA guidelines. In view of the small volume of work, there would be a
single contract for all three ports.
5.11      TPTC and APN intend to use the same consultants, INGEROUTE-SOHICCO,
who prepared the engineering designs for construction supervision in both road
and port civil works. APN also intends to retain the same consultants, James C.
Buckley Inc. who prepared the financial/organizational study for the component
for the management advisory services. These arrangements would be acceptable.
Preinvestment studies would be carried out by consultants acceptable to IDA
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
D.   Risks
5.12      The road and bridge component presents few special risks.  All the
road sections and bridges have been engineered, with the exception of the
Hyppolite Bridge. The latter is quite similar in span and type to other major
bridges recently built in Haiti. The only source of difference in cost would
arise from variations in foundation design; the probable resulting variation in
total cost is expected to be less than 5%. Traffic forecasts on the northern
roads are based on normal growth and planned development of agricultural pro-
duction in ongoing rural development programs. The short road to Marche Leon,
near Jeremie, in the south, also presents no significantly higher degree of
risk since the area is populated and endowed with good agricultural potential.
5.13      For the coastal shipping ports, the risks are acceptable.  The
preliminary engineering performed for the technical-economic studies is in
sufficient detail to minimize the risk of important cost overruns. The pro-
posed tariff policy has been designed to provide sufficient inducement to ship
owners to encourage use of the new facilities. The project traffic estimates
are conservative in the sense that they do not consider the full potential
growth which might come from further improvement, triggered by the project,
in particular the modernization of the fleet and upgrading in the quality of
services. Although considered a first "pilot" step in the full development of
coastal shipping, the project has been evaluated on its own merit. Adequate
attention has been paid to preserving the financial and institutional integrity
of APN in expanding its responsibility for coastal shipping ports.



- 24 -
VI. ROADS AND BRIDGES
A.   Project Identification and Preparation
6.01      The elements of the road and bridge component were selected from
a priority list established by the NTS. The rehabilitation and upgrading of
the road network (50 km) serving the northern plain east of Cap Haitien (Map
13294) was one of the highest ranking priorities; in addition, it supported
ongoing agricultural development projects. Improvement of the first 23 km
branching from the Northern Road to Gros Morne, on the road to Port de Paix
(Map 13293), was another ranking project that would support the Trois Rivieres
Valley development. The NTS also recommended improvement of roads linking
secondary ports with their immediate hinterland in the framework of the program
for the development of coastal shipping.
6.02      Consultants INGEROUTE-SOHICCO were retained in February 1977 under
the Fourth Highway Project to carry out feasibility studies for the northern
plain roads (54 km), the Gros-Morne road (23 km) and access roads to the ports
of Jeremie and Port de Paix (39 km). The feasibility study (completed in
October 1977) provided the basis for determining the length and scope of
economically justified improvements. In September 1977, the scope of the
study was extended to include economic assessment and engineering for the
reconstruction of the Hyppolite Bridge, which collapsed in August 1977.
6.03      Eventually, 54 km of upgrading was retained in the northern plain
area together with the replacement of the Trois Rivieres Bridge on the road to
Gros Morne and the first section of the access road to Jeremie. Detailed
engineering has been completed for all project elements except the Hyppolite
Bridge, for which engineering is in progress and will be completed by May 1978.
The high incidence of bridge failure and the critical importance of river
crossing in maintaining access to regions and rural communities prompted
inclusion, under the project, of a study for the preparation of a countrywide
program for bridge reconstruction and rehabilitation.
B.   Detailed Description
(i) Improvements of Roads and Bridges
6.04      The Northern Plain Roads (Map 13294):  The various sections to be
improved are:
-    Cap Haitien to Carrefour La Mort (7.2 km - reconstruction)
-    Carrefour La Mort-Trou du Nord (19.9 km - new pavement)
-    Carrefour La Mort-Barriere Battante (8.5 - reconstruction)
-    Barriere Battante-Grande Riviere du Nord (11.7 km - new pavement)
-    Barriere Battante-Milot (2.6 km - reconstruction)
-    Northern Road-Plaine du Nord (3.7 km - new pavement)
The Cap Haitien-Carrefour La Mort-Trou du Nord and the Carrefour La Mort-
Grande Riviere du Nord roads extend to the, east and southeast of Cap Haitien.



- 25 -
At Carrefour La Mort, the roads separate, with the Trou du Nord branch, via
the town of Limonade, forming the first half of the backbone road through the
agriculturally rich northern plain. Beyond Trou du Nord, this road continues
to Fort Liberte and Ouanaminthe, on the Dominican Republic border. The south-
ern branch, from Carrefour La Mort to Grand Riviere du Nord, leads to the
Central Plateau, which is one of the more promising areas for expanded agri-
cultural development. The 2.6-km connection from Milot to the southern branch
road extends to the western extremity of the northern plain and also serves
tourist traffic to "the Citadel" and the ruins of King Christophe's palace,
the principal tourist attractions of the area. The 3.7-km branch from the
Northern Road, just to the west of Cap Haitien, connects the locally important
agricultural center, Plaine du Nord, to the main roadnet.
6.05      The existing road surfaces vary from pavement, in different stages
of deterioration, to earth. Most of the unpaved sections have, however, at
some time received some select material surfacing. Table 6.1 summarizes the
principal characteristics of the existing roads. The standards for improve-
ment are summarized in Table 6.2. Paved roads would be reconstructed with a
6.0 m wide pavement with 0.5 m - 1.5 m wide shoulders, except for 2.5 km of
road between Cap Haitien and the local airport, which would be 7.0 m wide with
2.0 m shoulders (semi-urban). All pavement would be bituminous surface treat-
ment. Existing alignment, with some minor curve improvements, is satisfactory
in all but a few locations where the proximity of the road to river bank
erosion dictates short relocations. In general, road grade would be raised
and ditching improved to eliminate rainy-season flooding. A number of bridges
and culverts in weakened or questionable condition would be replaced; others
would be rehabilitated and widened. The scope of the proposed improvements
has been determined with a view toward achieving a low cost solution and is
consistent with the design standards adopted for the Northern Road.
6.06      The Hyppolite Bridge:
-    Concrete structure at a new location (span about 60 m)
-    Paved approaches (about 1.0 km) connecting the Carrefour La Mort
road to Cap Haitien and the Northern Road.
The old Hyppolite Bridge, built in 1896, crossed the Haut du Cap river on
the outskirts of Cap Haitien. The bridge gave access to the northern plain
and connected the city with its airport. The old bridge had become obsolete
and structurally unsound; it collapsed in August 1977. A 10-km detour is
presently in use, with cars using an ancient multiple masonry arch structure
and trucks fording the river alongside. The new bridge would be constructed
at a new site which considers future patterns of urban development, and the
project provides a bypass connection with the Northern Road and suitable
access to Cap Haitien's old town center and port.
6.07      The Trois Rivieres Bridge:
-    Concrete structure at a new location (span 150 m)
-    Gravel approach roads (about 3.5 km) connecting to the
Gonaives-Gros Morne road.



- 26 -
The existing steel bridge has deteriorated beyond repair. It is also poorly
sited, with a sharp curve in the approaches at either end. The bridge carries
all road traffic to and from St. Louis du Nord, Port de Paix and Gros Morne,
major towns of the relatively isolated northwestern region. Since the port of
Port de Paix would be improved under the project, it is relevant to note that
the reconstruction of the bridge would not affect the present distribution of
the transport flows between coastal shipping and roads. The respective role
of the two modes is relatively well established and essentially related to
the value of the cargo, with high value cargo moving on trucks. The new
bridge would be built at a new location in a relatively flat area, downstream
from the present site; the new location would allow improvement of approaches
and a saving of 1.5 km in travel distance.
6.08      The Marche Leon-Access Road:
-    12.8 km of drainage, surface and grade improvements.
This road section, branching off the coastal road between Jeremie and Roseaux,
runs alongside the Voldrogue river, which it crosses on a good concrete bridge
near Marche Leon. The valley is well cultivated, and coffee and timber come
from the mountains beyond Marche Leon. The existing earth road is flooded
annually, and drainage and surfacing are inadequate. A minimum standard
of improvement, providing for a 5 m wide drained platform with all-weather
gravel surfacing, is proposed.
6.09      Summaries of construction cost estimates are shown in Table 6.3.
Except for the Hyppolite Bridge, detailed quantity and cost estimates, draw-
ings and parts of the specifications were reviewed during appraisal. Minor
modifications requested during appraisal have been introduced and were sub-
sequently reviewed, together with preliminary engineering estimates for the
Hyppolite Bridge; all were found adequate.
6.10      Average construction costs (excluding major structures) for project
roads around Cap Haitien range from US$190,000 per km for 7 m pavement to an
average of US$145,000 per km for 6 m pavement. The average cost for the
Marche Leon road is about US$50,000 per km, taking into account the high cost
of mobilization in relation to the limited volume of the work. Although
comparatively high (para 2.13), these costs are consistent with the average cost
for the reconstruction of the Northern Road, US$160,000 per km, reflecting the
careful effort made to reduce the scope of improvements to the minimum still
acceptable to satisfy technical soundness and traffic safety conditions.
6.11      Construction of roads and bridges under the project would employ an
average of 200 to 300 workers over a two-year period. The smaller and simpler
lots, the Marche Leon road and the Trois Rivieres Bridge, correspond to the
estimated capacity of the best local firms. The other lots would offer oppor-
tunities for subcontracting. The contractor would select the work techniques
most appropriate. While pavement construction and earth movement require sub-
stantial use of equipment, important parts of the bridge work and construction
of the smaller drainage structures require more labor. The higher cost of
equipment mobilization and the relative simplicity of the work favor more
intensive use of labor for the Marche Leon road.



- 27 -
(ii) Preparation of Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement Program
6.12      The proposed study would be in two phases.  Phase I would (a) survey
the condition of bridges and major structures on the national network; (b) assess
the scope and volume of necessary repairs, rehabilitation or replacement and
define priority ranking; and (c) recommend safety measures and a program to
implement high priority works. Phase II would include (a) detailed engineering
for the program of repair or replacements defined under Phase I; and (b) develop-
ment of criteria and standards for new bridge construction. Terms of reference
of the study would be discussed and agreed during project implementation. The
study would be carried out in 1979-1980.
C.   Economic Assessment
(i) General
6.13      About 500,000 people, mainly farmers and rural inhabitants, live in
the area of influence of the road and bridge component, where agriculture is
the leading economic activity.
A number of agricultural development projects already initiated
in the northern plain (population 400,000) would benefit from
the project (Map 13294). Among those are the IDA Rural Development
Project (Credit 675-HA) which would, over the period 1978-1984,
increase annual production of sugar cane by 80,000 tons, vegetables by
5,300 tons, milk by 240 tons and meat by 350 tons. In addition,
the Caldos Sugar Company, near Limonade, has recently expanded its
capacity to refine sugar cane from about 200,000 tons to 850,000
tons annually. Under the Government's coffee program in the
Dondon region (between Grande Riviere du Nord and St. Raphael),
annual coffee exports are expected to increase from 350,000 sacks to
500,000 sacks in ten years.
-    The collapse of the Hyppolite Bridge (Map 13293) has disrupted
communications between the northern plain and Cap Haitien, the
regional capital. The lengthy detour now in use entails 2 million
vehicle-km of additional travel distance annually.
-    A collapse of the Trois Rivieres Bridge (Map 13293) would virtually
cut off the 175,000 inhabitants of the districts of Port de Paix
and northern Gonaives, who are still affected by the aftermath of
recent droughts and depend on the road for basic supplies. The
shortest alternate detour involves an added travel distance,
partly on very bad road, of some 40 km.
-    The improvement of the road to Marche Leon (Map 13293), a market
town serving 30,000, would provide all-weather access to rich
valleys of La Voldrouge and des Roseaux.
6.14      The detailed economic evaluation is based on the INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
feasibility studies. It comprises an analysis of quantifiable benefits in-
cluding savings in vehicle operating costs, reduced travel distance, reduction



- 28 -
in road closures, savings in road maintenance cost and users' time savings
(estimated separately). The cost of labor reflects the wage rates currently
paid by contractors. Industrially disciplined workers required for modern
construction methods are paid a substantial premium over agricultural wages.
The limited information available suggests that, in view of widespread unemploy-
ment and underemployment, estimates of the shadow cost for labor range roughly
between 65% and 45% of prevailing wages for unskilled laborers. The reduction
in project cost that would have resulted from the application of shadow cost
for labor is on the order of magnitude of 10%, that is, within the range
covered by the sensitivity tests (Tables 6.6 and 6.7). No shadow exchange
rates have been applied since the local currency is freely convertible, and it
is estimated that future inflation rates in Haiti would follow trends prevail-
ing in the US economy. All costs and benefits considered in the economic
analysis are net of taxes. Benefits for all project elements were calculated
from 1979 through 1998 with the exception of the Limonade-Trou du Nord section,
for which the opening year was 1980. All project elements were evaluated
individually. In the case of the roads serving the northern plain, the analysis
was conducted in two steps, first considering each section separately and then
considering the improvement of the whole link.
(ii) Traffic
6.15      Existing traffic volumes were obtained through origin and destina-
tion surveys conducted by the consultants in July 1977, except for the Marche
Leon access road where the traffic estimates were based upon interviews with
local truckers and merchants. Traffic counts for the prior two years were
useful only as a check on the 1977 count since the locations required for
project analysis did not coincide with those used in the NTS. Seasonal
adjustment, however, was made using the same factors as in the NTS except in
cases where inquiries concerning produce movement in the project area indicated
that the local pattern varied from the national averages.
6.16      Normal traffic growth was estimated using the national average growth
rate analysis in the NTS for public passenger traffic (8.5%) and private pas-
senger vehicles (11%). For goods and produce, the growth in local movements
for nine principal commodity groups was projected on the basis of specific
production projections from the development projects in the area or by national
average values from the NTS when these were found to be applicable to the proj-
ect area. This resulted in growth rates for 7-ton trucks of 4.5% - 4.8% and
for 12-ton trucks of 5%. Table 6.4 presents the projections of normal, gen-
erated and diverted traffic by road section.
6.17      Estimates of generated traffic for passenger vehicles are based on
a demand/cost elasticity model using only perceived marginal cost differences
(principally fuel consumption) for private passenger vehicles and an even more
conservative value of one-quarter of vehicle operating cost reduction for
public transport vehicles. The resulting generated traffic estimates range
between 5% and 15% of existing volumes; 50% of normal traffic benefits were
assigned to generated traffic. Benefits accruing from the latter are always
less than 5% of total benefits.



- 29 -
6.18      There is no traffic diversion to the improved roads.  However, for
the major bridge reconstruction, at new locations, all projected traffic is
a diversion from the existing route, and savings were calculated as the
difference in trip costs under present and future conditions.
(iii) Project Impact and Benefits
6.19      The bulk of the project benefits would result from reduced vehicle
operating costs. Detailed estimates of vehicle operating costs were developed
by the consultants for four kinds of road surface and five representative
vehicle categories. These are shown in Table 6.5. The values used are about
15% higher than those estimated at the time of the NTS which is consistent
with the increases in fuel costs and vehicle prices that have occurred since
1975.
6.20      The reconstruction and improvement of the roads in the northern
plain would appreciably reduce journey times; therefore, a saving due to re-
duced passenger travel time for cars and jeeps was included in the benefits.
This is appropriate since, on the project roads, virtually all passenger cars
and jeeps are used for work-related trips. No time value was attributed to
any other vehicle category, and all results are presented with and without
these time savings. Maintenance requirements for the project roads, with
and without improvement, are estimated by INGEROUTE-SOHICCO on the basis of
detailed analysis developed in the framework of the NTS.
6.21.     Northern Plain Roads.  Vehicle operating cost savings constitute
the major benefit since all project roads in the northern plain would be
paved. The estimated rates of return are shown in Table 6.6. They range from
about 13.5% for the Barriere Battante-Milot section to about 40% for the
heavily traveled Cap Haitien-Carrefour La Mort section. The corresponding
first year benefits (FYB) are about 8% and 36%, with all bridge improvements
included in the road section costs. Even with a 15% increase in construction
costs, the return remains satisfactory. On the most marginal section (Barriere
Battante-Milot), the 25% reduction in benefits leads to a drop in rate of
return from about 13.5% to about 10%. If time benefits are excluded, the
rates of return remain well above the opportunity cost of capital (8%) on all
sections, even the Barriere Battante-Milot section, for which the FYB drops
to about 6%. In view of its adequate rate of return, this relatively small
section has been retained in the project since.its reconstruction at some
future date would entail higher mobilization costs.
6.22      If the roads in the northern plain are grouped by links, the
Carrefour La Mort-Limonade-Trou du Nord link yields just over 15% while the
Cap Haitien-Carrefour La Mort link yields more than 40%. Overall, the roads
in the northern plain yield a return of about 20%.
6.23      Hyppolite Bridge.  The benefits from the new bridge result primarily
from distance savings inherent in avoiding the 10-km detour now in use. The
surface condition of the detour road has been assumed to remain in average
condition. Assuming, pessimistically, a two-year construction period and an



- 30 -
attendant 10% increase in the real resources committed to the bridge construc-
tion, the rate of return is still 34%. The results of the economic evaluation
and sensitivity analyses are shown in Table 6.7.
6.24      Trois Rivieres Bridge.  The Trois Rivieres Bridge, which is in
danger of collapsing but is still passable, has been evaluated on two altern-
ative assumptions. The first analysis assumes that a new permanent struc-
ture would be placed in service before the existing bridge becomes impassable.
This scenario involves a reduction in distance and savings in vehicle operat-
ing costs due to improved bridge approaches. In the second analysis, the bridge
is assumed to collapse in one of the years between 1978 and 1983. The collapse
would force traffic between Gros Morne and Gonaives to take a long detour via
Plaisance (Map 13293). In both cases, it is assumed that, despite its being
hazardous, traffic would use the structure as long as possible; however, after
the bridge collapses, the rate of growth of passenger cars and tap-taps between
Gonaives and Gros Morne has been halved to approximate the dampening effect of
being forced to use the long detour route, which includes 33 km of unpaved
road in poor condition.
6.25      The results of the analyses are shown in Table 6.7.  If the replace-
ment for the Trois Rivieres Bridge is in operation before the existing bridge
becomes unserviceable, the rate of return will be 19% and the first-year
benefit 13%. Various sensitivity analyses are shown in the table. The
return would be much higher should the bridge become totally unusable before
a replacement is operational.
6.26      Marche Leon Access Road.  The benefits are twofold:  (a) reduction
of vehicle operating costs on the present poorly drained track; and (b) reduced
losses in perishable agricultural commodities caused by road closures in the
rainy season. The latter would result in estimated annual savings of US$82,000,
representing the lost value of about 270 tons of perishable produce. Time
benefits are negligible on this road and have not been included in the analysis.
The return is 25%, with an FYB of 22%. Sensitivity analyses (Table 6.8) show
the project to be feasible, with a 15% cost increase or a 25% decrease in
benefits.
(iv) Overall Return and Conclusion
6.27      The overall average economic rate of return of the various road and
bridge improvements is 23%, which is satisfactory. The above analysis confirms
the priority of the project road and bridge component. Although operating on
a small scale, road transport services in Haiti are well adapted and competi-
tive. Reduction in vehicle operating costs would therefore be passed on to
the rural communities served by the roads and bridges. The reconstruction of
a major bridge in Cap Haitien would restore direct communication with the
northern plain and the airport. The reconstruction of the Trois Rivieres
Bridge would maintain reliable communication to the northwestern peninsula,
which is one of the most disadvantaged regions of Haiti. The project would
contribute toward integrating relatively isolated populations into the frame-
work of the national economy.



- 31 -
VII. COASTAL SHIPPING PORTS
A.   Project Preparation
(i) Selection of Pilot Ports
7.01      Discussion of the NTS findings and recommendations in February 1977
resulted in agreement on (a) the need to proceed with a pilot project in
coastal shipping port development to test APP's capability of extending its
role to the smaller ports, and (b) the ports to be selected for initial
terminal improvements. Three ports of key importance to the future develop-
ment of coastal shipping were agreed upon (Map 13293):
(a) Port-au-Prince, where about two-thirds of present coastal
shipping traffic terminates or originates and where the
existing wooden pier is (1) inadequate for projected traffic
and (2) without protection from the sea;
(b) Jeremie, on the Southern peninsula of Haiti, where a large
volume of agricultural production and passengers, without
alternative road connections to the rest of the country, now
utilize the only scheduled motorized shipping services in
coastal trade; and
(c) Port-de-Paix, on the Northern peninsula of Haiti, in the
center of an area that is poorly served by existing roads
and economically depressed by a recent drought, where coastal
shipping could provide vital links to both Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien.
7.02      To prepare the pilot ports component of the proposed project, the
Government retained the firm INGEROUTE-SOHICCO (France-Haiti) for an engineer-
ing and economic study, and the firm James C. Buckley, Inc., for an organiza-
tion and financial study. Financing for these studies was provided under the
Fourth Highway Project (Credit 556-HA). The objectives and scope of the
studies, which were completed during April-October 1977, are discussed in para-
graphs 7.03-7.06.
(ii) Engineering and Economic Study
7.03      Based on the concepts for improvement of coastal shipping recommended
in the NTS, the objectives of the engineering and economic study were to define
the location, functional requirements and layout for phased port development
at the three selected pilot sites, prepare preliminary engineering designs and
cost estimates for a recommended first phase of development, and provide an
economic analysis of the proposed construction.
7.04      In the course of this study, the NTS traffic forecasts were reviewed
and modified, based on detailed analysis of the traffic potential at each of
the pilot ports. The consultants envisioned a gradual transition from the



- 32 -
present coastal shipping system to the proposed system (para 3.05), starting
with the introduction of services by the existing fleet at modernized terminals
in the proposed pilot ports in 1980. Generally, relatively modest growth
rates for cargo traffic were used in the project analysis, i.e., 3.5%-8% per
year, higher for ports such as Jeremie and lower for Port-de-Paix and Port-au-
Prince. The detailed forecast for the three ports is given in Tables 7.1 to 7.4.
For purposes of the financial analysis, all cargo traveling together with
passengers (mainly fruits and vegetables) was excluded from the forecast because
this traffic, although relatively important, would not generate revenue for
the ports.
7.05      The study also involved an analysis of coastal shipping port opera-
tions, review of navigation and sea conditions, soundings and subsurface inves-
tigations at possible terminal sites, and studies of alternative port layouts.
Preliminary engineering for the recommended first stage of development was
carried to the level required for estimates of construction costs on the basis
of quantity estimates for principal categories of materials and work, with an
accuracy of +15%. Main aspects of the economic analyses conducted as part of
this study are discussed in Section D of this chapter.
(iii) Organization and Financial Study
7.06      The organization and financial study was carried out to provide
recommendations on (a) the institutional arrangements to be made by APN for
implementation and operation of the project and (b) the structure and level
of user charges for the proposed terminals. The results of the financial
analysis and institutional recommendations of this study were discussed with
APP and other Government agencies concerned during appraisal; the conclusions
of these discussions are summarized in Sections E and F of this chapter.
B.   Projlect Components
(i) Improvements of Coastal Shipping Ports
7.07      This project component would comprise construction, detailed engineer-
ing and construction supervision for:
(a) Port-au-Prince - A marginal wharf of about 150 m with 4 m channel
depth at mean low water (berthing for four motor vessels and one
sailboat); seven mooring buoys; about 16,000 m2 of paved land area and
access road; about 1,700 m2 of cargo shed; passenger shed (about
200 m2); and utilities.
(b) Jeremie - A marginal wharf of about 120 m with 4 m channel depth
at mean low water (berthing for three motor vessels and one sail-
boat); about 10,000 m2 of paved land area and access road; passenger
shed (about 200 m2); and utilities.



- 33 -
(c) Port-de-Paix - A marginal wharf of about 50 m with 4 m channel
depth at mean low water (berthing for one motor vessel and one
sailboat); about 3,500 m2 of paved land area and access road;
and utilities.
7.08      These facilities have been designed for manual cargo transfer between
vessels and trucks. Mechanical handling equipment has not been included in
the project because traditional, labor-intensive methods are more appropriate,
even when modernized vessels are introduced; however, the resulting functional
and structural design of the facilities would permit future introduction of
mechanical handling equipment.
(ii) Management Assistance to APN
7.09      The proposed management advisory services to the new APN would
provide assistance in the implementation of recommendations made in the organ-
ization and financial study for this project (para 7.06) and in the institu-
tional development required for future extensions of APN's responsibilities to
other coastal shipping ports. A total of 30 man-months of professional time
is estimated to be required for this purpose, over a period of 18 months
beginning in mid-1978. 1/
(iii) Study of Future Coastal Shipping Development
7.10      The proposed study of coastal shipping development would be conducted
in two phases. Phase I (four months) would provide a comprehensive analysis
of development alternatives in coastal shipping and would result in the iden-
tification of future port projects and definition of the coastal shipping
fleet development best suited for conditions prevailing in Haiti (para 3.08).
Phase II (six months) would provide preparation of the port projects identified
in Phase I to the level required for an investment decision; it would comprise
field investigations, preliminary engineering, economic analysis and financial
forecasts. UNDP financing (US$160,000) is being considered for Phase I (para
5.03), which is to start in mid-1978; Phase II is included in the financing
under the proposed credit and is to start in early 1979 (Table 7.6).
(iv) Study of Port of Cap Haitien
7.11      The proposed study for Cap Haitien would provide an analysis of a
special situation that prevails in Haiti's second largest port, where an existing
berth for tourist vessels is in poor structural condition and improvements are
required for both international traffic and domestic coastal trade. Such
improvements have been given very high priority in the NTS. The study would
provide project preparation for recommended port developments, with preliminary
enginering, economic analysis and financial forecasts. It is to be conducted
over a period of about nine months, starting in the fall of 1978 (Table 7.6).
1/   Costs are included in capital cost estimate for pilot ports, Table 7.5.



- 34 -
C.   Project Impact
7.12      The proposed project would affect a large share of the coastal ship-
ping industry since improvements would be made to the two most important ports
of the system: Port-au-Prince and Jeremie. The competitive position of
coastal shipping would be strengthened, and the two relatively isolated areas
of Jeremie and Port-de-Paix would be better integrated. This would be achieved
with a much lower level of investment than that required to provide a corre-
sponding level of services through road improvement.
7.13      The project would especially benefit the populations of the Jeremie
region, totaling almost 250,000, and of the Port-de-Paix region, totaling
about 160,000 with Tortue Island, for which Port-de-Paix is the main transit
point. Jeremie and Port-de-Paix are in relatively isolated, low-income agri-
cultural areas. The value of shipments from these areas would grow in propor-
tion to the tonnages; by 1985, the value of commodities leaving Jeremie by
ship would be on the order of US$24 million, while that leaving Port-de-Paix
by ship would be slightly over US$1 million. Almost the whole production
would move by ship from Jeremie, whereas the high-value production from Port-
de-Paix, such as coffee, would still move by road, due to savings in transport
time.
7.14      The site selected for the proposed terminal at Port-au-Prince would
have significant impact on both the coastal shipping fleet and on land trans-
port costs for freight movements between coastal shipping and the main sources
and destination of cargo in the Port-au-Prince area. The existing terminal
for coastal shipping near Cite Simone Duvalier (Map 13295) is at an exposed
location on the open coast, where protection of vessels at the pier or at
anchor would not be feasible without construction of a costly breakwater.
Occasional severe storms make the existing location quite hazardous (over 30
sailboats reportedly sank at Cite Simone Duvalier during a storm in December
1975). In addition, the Cite Simone location is some 6 km away from the inter-
national terminal of Port-au-Prince and from the markets in the central busi-
ness district. The proposed La Saline location would reduce this distance to
about 1 km and would provide shelter for vessels at berth and at anchor because
of the protection afforded by coral reefs outshore of the selected terminal
site.
7.15      The proposed development of coastal shipping would not have signifi-
cant environmental impact on Haiti's coastline. The amount of dredging required
for port construction is minor, and all terminals are located at or near exist-
ing terminals of similar character. The energy requirements of motorized
coastal vessels would be significantly less than those of equivalent transport
by road, and their effect on water pollution (not a problem in Haiti at present)
would be minimal. The impact of vessel construction on Haiti's limited for-
estry resources (a major problem at present) is not expected to be significant.
D.   Economic Evaluation
7.16      The development of coastal shipping represents a low-cost solution
to the economic problem of providing adequate transport services to a number
of isolated and relatively little developed communities on Haiti and its



- 35 -
smaller islands. Decreased transport cost and improved reliability are the
principal objectives of the ports component of the proposed project. The ship
capacity for such improvements already largely exists but is not well utilized
as a result of present infrastructure limitations and other constraints (para
3.02). In some of the smaller communities, potential agricultural production
is not undertaken because of transport limitations. The proposed pilot project
would open the way for more extensive development, serving other communities
which have a low-income population mostly as a result of their present relative
isolation.
7.17      The quantified evaluation is based on the difference in costs to
the economy with and without the project. Benefits attributable to future
modernization of the fleet and other coastal shipping port developments to be
financed at a later stage have not been taken into account. The following
benefits were quantified:
(a) difference in cargo handling cost;
(b) improved protection to ships and cargo;
(c) improved passenger handling;
(d) reduced transit time for cargo (Jeremie);
(e) reduced road distance to city center (Port-au-Prince); and
(f) reduced transport cost compared to existing trucking over
poor roads (Port-de-Paix).
7.18      The economic evaluation justifies port investment for coastal ship-
ping at Port-au-Prince, Jeremie and Port-de-Paix for completion 1979-1980.
The major part of this investment is for wharf construction and associated
dredging which will allow more efficient use of existing larger and proposed
more modern ships suitable for coastal services in Haiti. In addition to the
investment cost, the maintenance cost of the ports has been considered but not
present costs (about US$100,000) for port administration. The rate of return
is about 14% for all port project components, with a first-year return of 9%,
which is above the opportunity cost of capital (8%) and is considered adequate
for a pilot project. The details are given in Tables 7.7 to 7.9. The rates
of return for the individual ports vary from 13% for Jeremie to 14% for
Port-au-Prince and 16% for Port-de-Paix. The application of shadow cost for
labor on the basis mentioned in paragraph 6.14 would have resulted in reduc-
tions in project costs and benefits on the order of magnitude of 10% to 20%,
that is, within the range covered by the sensitivity tests, Table 7.9.
7.19      An important advantage of this part of the project that is difficult
to quantify is its role as an intermediate technology transport solution.
Although part of the quantified benefits relates to more efficient use of
existing and new motorized vessels, the major part is for improved cargo
handling and ship protection, which is equally essential for the still impor-
tant traffic by sailing ships. This traffic is expected to continue as a



- 36 -
consequence of favorable wind conditions and low labor costs. The continua-
tion of such services depends on whether improved coastal shipping can retain
and develop its market share of transport in areas of increasing road compe-
tition, where speed and reliability of service are important factors.
7.20      There are other unquantified secondary benefits such as induced
agricultural production as a result of more reliable services and a change
to more valuable, but perishable, commodities which have no access to major
markets at present.
E.   Project Administration
7.21      Following the recommendations of the National Transport Study,
the Government decided to extend the mandate of APP to include the ports that
would form part of a modernized coastal shipping system, starting with the
pilot ports to be improved under the project. This is in accordance with
existing legislation that created APP. 1/ The functions of the new APN
(para 3.17) for selected coastal shipping ports would comprise:
(a) design and construction of proposed improvements;
(b) maintenance and repair of all terminal installations;
(c) supervision of terminal operations (e.g., the allocation of
berths, yard space and sheds, and traffic management in
terminal areas);
(d) record keeping on port utilization; and
(e) collection of user charges.
7.22      A study of APN's organization (para 7.06) indicated that the incor-
poration of the above functions for coastal shipping ports does not require
major change in the existing organizational structure and would not be an
obstacle to APN's efficient management and operation. The study recommended
that management of coastal ports be administered by APN as the Coastal Port
Service (CPS), under the direct supervision of the Director General. Initially,
CPS would have four operating units: one for the existing terminal at
Port-au-Prince (near Cite Simone Duvalier) and one for each of the proposed
new terminals (Port-au-Prince at La Saline, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie). The
1/   Article 15 of Law of June 18, 1973 provides that:  "The Government may
confer upon the APP, depending upon circumstances, and in view of their
development, the administration and management of other open ports of
the Republic of Haiti. All additional ports will generate their own
resources and revenues or obtain contributions from the Government for
their operation and development."



- 37 -
recommended organizational structure of APN is shown in Chart 3 1/ which was
reviewed during negotiations, at which time APN undertook to furnish to the
Association for its approval, not later than September 30, 1978, its proposal
for organizational and administrative changes. The Government agreed to
consult with the Association prior to extending the responsibility of APN to
coastal shipping ports other than those included in the project.
7.23      Staffing for the CPS and its four operating units would be obtained
largely from the existing unit at Cite Simone and from the Customs Service at
Jeremie and Port-de-Paix. The CPS would have a General Manager, who would
also act as Manager of the operating unit at La Saline. The Manager of each
unit would initially have a staff of three to six (billing clerks, cashiers,
typists, etc.), resulting in a total initial staff of 21 for the four terminals.
Functions such as personnel selection, accounting, auditing, statistical
reporting, maintenance and repair of coastal port facilities would be handled
by the appropriate departments of APN. Cargo transfer operations at the
coastal ports would continue to be handled by the vessel operators, truckers,
shippers and passengers, as at present, but cargo handling equipment could be
rented by the users, as required, directly from APN. The Armed Forces would
continue to be responsible for security at the coastal ports, as at present.
F.   Financial Analysis
7.24      For the financial analysis of coastal shipping pilot ports, the
organization and financial study (para 7.06) provided (a) background on
APP's present and APN's prospective financial position, (b) recommendations on
the structure and level of user charges for the ports, and (c) a basis for
the financing plan and projections prepared during appraisal. The proposed
financing and tariff policy for improvement of the coastal shipping ports
reflects the need to strike a balance between two objectives:
(a)  to maintain the financial viability of APN while its terminal
responsibilities are expanded to include domestic coastal
shipping; and
(b)  to establish cost-oriented port tariffs for pilot ports that
would be affordable for the users, encourage waterborne coastal
traffic, and facilitate future development of additional ports
in the system.
(i) Coastal Shipping Ports Tariff
7.25      Three basic aspects have been considered in formulating APN's
tariffs for coastal shipping ports:
(a) users and operators of coastal shipping in Haiti have little in
common with the affluent users of international ports (foreign
shipping companies, tourists, etc.) since much of the cargo
1/   Under provisions of the existing loan agreement between the Government
and the Inter-American Development Bank, APN is to be established as an
autonomous agency, endowed with its own Board of Directors, by November
1978; Chart 3 reflects this change.



- 38 -
moving between coastal ports is low in value, domestic commerce
is unsophisticated and most of the passengers are extremely
poor. Many passengers and sailboat owners are small traders
who move from one coastal village or town to another. They
buy and sell their merchandise at local markets serving low-
income groups in both rural and urban areas;
(b) coastal ship operators would be willing to pay in port charges
not more than a part of what they perceive as financial benefits
from use of the proposed port facilities. They have the option
to bypass the new terminals, continuing in their present mode
of operation (landing at beaches or using lighterage), so that
expected economic benefits from the project would not materialize;
and
(c) the road transport alternatives, on routes where they exist, are
not much more costly than coastal shipping, particularly if cargo
value related costs are also considered. Between Port-au-Prince
and Port de Paix, for instance, the financial cost by road would
be about US$18/ton, while the financial cost by vessel (including
the recommended port charges discussed in paragraph 7.27) would be
about US$12/ton; value related costs (time in transit and insurance)
may add US$0.72/ton to US$4.14/ton to the vessel cost, depending
on the commodity moved; thus, the relative advantage of coastal
shipping is narrow.
7.26      The perceived financial benefits to port users referred to in
item (b) above would amount to only about two-thirds of the economic benefits
from port improvements. The remaining benefits from the avoidance of losses
caused by occasional storms and hurricanes (because of improved protection at
the new terminals in Port-au-Prince and Jeremie) and reduced road distance to
the city center in Port-au-Prince accrue over a long time span and would be
difficult to perceive by the users; these would not result in immediate cash
savings and should not be recovered through tariffs in the initial phase of
port operations. To minimize administrative staff and collection costs for
APN, port revenues other than storage charges would be collected only from
vessel operators (i.e., cargo owners, truckers and passengers would not pay
anything directly to APN when they use coastal shipping ports).
7.27      APN's proposed port tariff reflects the considerations stated above
and is based on recovery of about 80% of the direct financial benefits accru-
ing to port users, rather than on the full cost allocated to each revenue
producing area. The proposed rates are shown in Annex 1. A comparison of
prospective revenues with APN's operating and capital expenditures shows that
revenues generated by the proposed rates would cover more than working costs
of the coastal port operations from the beginning and, from 1984, as traffic
gradually increases, would reach a level at which full depreciation costs
would also be covered. The terms and conditions on which capital funds would
be made available to APN were adjusted to ensure that debt could be serviced
from new revenues from the coastal shipping ports. Detailed financial fore-
casts follow.



- 39 -
(ii)   Financial Forecast
7.28      Based on the traffic projection (Tables 7.1-7.4) and the above-
mentioned recommended rates, a financial forecast for pilot coastal ports was
prepared for 1980-1985. The following is a summary of income accounts:
PROJECTED INCOME AND EXPENSES
Pilot Coastal Ports
Debt
Operating  Operating    Net       Interest    Net   Operating  Service
Year     Revenues   Expenses   Revenues    Cost    Income    Ratio    Coverage
-------------------------(in thousand US$)---------------------------
1980 /1      127        166        (39)       24        (63)       131       0.8
1981         181        221        (41)       23        (64)       123       1.6
1982         193        223        (30)       22        (52)       115       2.1
1983         207        225        (18)       21        (39)       109       2.8
1984         226        225          1        19        (18)       100       1.0
1985         238        229          9        27        (18)        96       0.7
After 1985                                         not higher than 92
/1   Represents nine months operation only.
The above forecast is in 1977 constant US dollars; the details of assumptions
used are given in Annex 1. It is expected that the coastal shipping ports
would start operating gradually from January 1980. APN would be able to cover
working costs plus a portion of depreciation from the start of operations and
full operating costs (including depreciation) from 1984. The operating ratios
would improve from 131 in 1980 to 96 in 1985. The debt service coverage would
gradually improve to 2.8 by 1983, would decrease to a low of 0.7 by 1985 be-
cause of commencement of amortization payments, and would improve to 1.2 in
1990 as revenues increase and debt service charges decrease.
7.29      To implement the pilot ports project, there is a need for a one-time
equity Government contribution equal to the local currency component of the
capital cost of about US$1.1 million. This was discussed with the Government
and it was agreed that the Government would grant APN such an equity.
7.30      The Government would enter into a separate agreement with APN,
providing for on-lending of the credit amount. The possible terms and condi-
tions of this agreement have been considered carefully, and it is recommended
that the Government should on-lend the IDA funds, including those required for
the Cap Haitien study, on a 25-year term, including a six-year grace period.
The interest rate should be on a graduated scale basis -- at 1% between
1978-1985 and 2% thereafter. These terms are similar to IDB terms except that
the life of the loan and the grace period would be shorter.  Any harder terms
at this time would require either that APN subsidize coastal ports from
international port revenues or that the Government provide a recurring subsidy;



- 40 -
both of these alternatives are undesirable since international port revenues
are required for operations, maintenance, debt service and an ongoing program
of further port improvements (Table 7.10, Page 1) and recurring subsidies
could destroy the incentive for efficient management. The timing of the in-
crease in interest rate to 2% coincides with the physical expansion of the
coastal ports system and with improvements from basic technology to inter-
mediate technology that are expected in coastal shipping. However, after 1985,
it would be possible for APN to increase tariffs on selected commodities in
order to enable APN to pay 2% interest to the Government (Table 7.10, page 2). 1/
7.31      To maintain the financial situation as forecast, agreement was
reached with the Government and APN during negotiations on the following items:
(a) The Government would enter into a subsidiary agreement with APN,
providing for on-lending of the port related portion of the credit
amount for 25 years, including a six-year grace period. The interest
rate would be 1% during 1978-1985 and 2% thereafter. The Government
would make a one-time equity contribution to APN of about US$1.1
million for the construction of coastal shipping ports during
1978/79.
(b) For the coastal shipping ports, APN would, starting 1980, achieve
annual working and operating ratios specified in paragraph 7.28 and
Annex I (under Coastal Shipping).
(c) APN would request, and the Government would grant, tariff increases
in real terms to achieve the targets established in the program
mentioned in (b) above and Table 7.10, page 2.
(d) APN would submit to IDA (i) periodic reports on the operational
and financial performance of the coastal shipping ports and
(ii) up to 1985, APN's annual budget proposals for IDA comment,
two months prior to the beginning of the budget year.
(e) APN would not increase its administrative and operating expenditures
or investments for coastal shipping ports by more than 10% of the
amounts in the budget for any given year without prior consultation
with IDA.
(f) APN would retain all port charges collected by it.
(iii) Financing Plan
7.32      Present and forecast cash flows for APP/APN (including pilot ports) and
for pilot coastal ports alone are given in Table 7.10. The plan for financing
for the construction of the pilot ports project is summarized on the next page;
1/   The alternative of charging APN 2% interest from the outset was also
considered; however, this would require a 17% increase in the proposed
tariff starting in 1980, which would tend to decrease utilization of
the ports since charges would equal 93% of direct financial benefits
to users from the proposed improvements.



- 41 -
Investments 1978-79         Z
('000 US$) /
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit                                     2,767                  74 /2
Government Equity Contribution                  1.009                 26
Total                                       3.776                 100
Uses of Funds
Investment - Project                            3,776                100
Total                                        3,776                100
/1   1977 constant US dollars.
/2   IDA contribution would be 72% of construction cost and 80% of consulting
services with an average of 74%.
Page 2 of Table 7.10 indicates that the interest payments at 1% up to 1985 and
2% thereafter would be the maximum that would permit meeting the financial
goals of coastal ports (para 7.24). Since coastal ports operations would not
start before 1980, the interest during construction has been capitalized.
7.33      The actual and forecast balance sheets for APN, including the pilot
ports, are shown in Table 7.11.  APN's debt/equity ratio is expected to improve
from 55/45 in 1980 to 41/59 in 1985. The current ratio would remain satisfac-
tory for all the years 1980-1985. The forecast balance sheet reflects esti-
mated revaluation of fixed assets at September 1977 prices. In addition, major
investments are in progress with IDB loans on international ports and are
expected to be completed by 1979. Investments in the coastal shipping pilot
ports are also expected to be completed by the end of 1979. APN is therefore
considering the revaluation of fixed assets in 1980. It was agreed during
negotiations that APN would carry out a revaluation of fixed assets in use in
1980 and at least once every three years thereafter.
7.34      APN would maintain separate accounts for each of the pilot ports,
and separate financial statements should be prepared. Furthermore, to provide
a basis for determining cost-related port tariffs in the future, a costing
system should be established with the assistance of consultants included in
the project (para 7.09). These matters were agreed during negotiations.
7.35      It was agreed during negotiations that APN (a) would take all steps
necessary to adjust its port charges in order to earn an annual rate of return
of at least 6% on net fixed assets of its installations; and (b) would not,
unless the Association agrees otherwise, contract any further long-term debt
in excess of US$1,000,000.



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(i) Tra..sport Sector
(a) outline of SAT's work program in transport planning for
the period 1978-1980, including: revision and periodic
updating of the Government's transport investment
program and analysis of related funding requirements;
systematic collection of statistical information on the
operations of the transport system; and economic and
financial assessment of investment proposals with
estimated costs above US$1 million equivalent
(para 1.10);
(b) preparation and adoption, after consultation with IDA,
of an updated transport investment program for the
1978-1983 period and annual updating of such program
(para 1.11);
(ii) Highways
(c) scope and schedule of the Government program for enforcement
of vehicle weight regulations, in compliance with Credit
478-HA and Credit 556-HA; the Government confirmed that
vehicle weight regulations on the Northern Road would be
enforced in accordance with an agreed program, starting
August 31, 1978 (para 2.07);
(d) specific measures to expand SEPRRN's maintenance capacity
and specific maintenance schedules for the Northern Road
(para 2.19);
(e) causing the national highway system to be maintained
adequately as provided for in the Five-Year Maintenance
Program already agreed under Credit 556-HA (para 2.20);
(f) preparation, not later than December 31, 1978, of the
schedule of specific road sections to be brought under
continued maintenance during the period 1979 to 1982
(para 2.20);
(g) establishing within SEPRRN, not later than December 31, 1978,
a separate training unit responsible for recruitment, training
and personnel policies; such unit to be supported with adequate
resources, including technical assistance, in accordance with
a staffing plan and work program for the period 1979-1982
acceptable to IDA (para 2.20);
(iii) Coastal Shipping Ports Development
(h) studies regarding the establishment of an institutional
framework for guidance and support of coastal shipping
services (paras 3.25-3.26);



- 43 -
(i) authorization for extending APN's responsibility to the
coastal shipping pilot ports, related organizational
changes within APN and consultation with the Association
prior to extending the responsibility of APN to coastal
shipping ports other than those included in the project
(paras 7.21-7.22).
(j) terms and conditions for on-lending of the port related
portion of the Credit (para 7.31(a));
(k) provision of a one-time equity contribution of about US$1.1
million and other financial assistance to APN (para 7.31(a));
(1) authorization for APN to increase port charges as necessary
(para 7.31(c)); and
(m) APN to retain all port charges collected by it (para 7.31(f)).
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was also reached with APN on the
following:
(a) furnishing to the Association for its approval, not later than
September 30, 1978, its proposals for organization changes and
administrative support necessary for construction, operation and
maintenance of the coastal shipping pilot ports (paras 7.21-7.23);
(b) increasing port charges as required to achieve agreed
financial targets (para 7.31(c)), including forecast annual
working and operating ratios starting 1980 (para 7.31(b));
(c) periodic reports on the operational and financial performance
of coastal shipping ports (para 7.31(d));
(d) up to 1985, submittal of APN's annual budget proposals to the
Association for comment, two months prior to their adoption
(para 7.31(d));
(e) not increasing the administrative and operating expenditures or
the investments for coastal shipping ports in the adopted
budget by more than 10% for any given year without prior
consultation with IDA (para 7.31(e));
(f) revaluing all fixed assets in use in 1980 and at least once
every three years thereafter (para 7.33);
(g) maintaining separate accounts for each of the pilot ports and
establishing a costing system (para 7.34);
(h) adjusting tariffs to earn 6% rate of return (para 7.35 (a));
and
(i) debt limitation (para 7.35(b)).
8.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for an
IDA credit of US$15 million; standard IDA conditions are appropriate.
May 4, 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
FY 1977 - 1981 Development Program Transportation Investments
(in millions of 1975 US dollars)
1976 / 77         1977 / 78         1978 / 79         1979 / 80          1980 / 81
Description               Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.   Govt. Extern.    Govt. Extern.
1.  Highway Transport           4.04    19.77    4.91    22.69    3.24    11.62    1.89    3.50          1.66    4.12
2.  Maritime Transport          2.72    13.97    1.08       6.04    0.38      2.09    2.57    0.32       0.06    0.21
3.  Air Transport                 -       0.02    0.43      0.06    1.01      0.03    1.22    0.07       1.51      -
4.  Institutional Change        0.25      0.64    0.53      1.58      -                 -        -         _       -
5.  Specialist Training         0.06      0.36    0.03      0.29    0.03      0.23    0.02    0.19       0.01    0.05
TOTALS                 7.07    34.76    6.98    30.66    4.66    13.97    5.70    4.08          3.24    4.38
Note: The figures shown do not include operating budgets nor estimated maintenance costs.
Source: Government Five Year Development Plan 1976/77 to 1980/81
January 1978                                                                                                               z



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Highway Sector Expenditures (FY 1974-FY 1977)
(in millions of US dollars)
1973/74                1974/75                1975/76                 1976/77
Govt.    External      Govt.    External      Govt.    External       Govt.    External
1.  TPTC Operating Budget-                 0.95        -          1.15         -         1.30         -          1.50         -
2.  Road Construction and Improvement-2/  1.80        1.55        6.25      16.95        5.85       25.50        6.55       26.40
3.  Technical Assistance                   0.50       1.20        0.25        0.70       0.35        1.00         -           -
4.  Road Maintenance (SEPRRN)-/            0.50        -          0.80        0.70       1.20        1.50        1.75        1.50
TOTALSA/                              3.75        2.75        8.45      18.35        8.7        28.00       10.30      27.90
1/ Transport related costs only - estimated at 50% of total TPTC recurrent budget.
2/ Mission estimates of annual disbursements.  Includes Northern and Southern roads, Jacmel road, coffee project and
agricultural project roads.  Jacmel road cost estimated as US$7 million.  Differences from proposed expenditures               n
in 1976-77 (Table 1.1) reflect results of delays and cost increases on Southern road and differences in percentage
of Government's contribution.
3/ Based on SEPRRN five-year program.
4/ Does not include urban street expenditures.
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Projected Highway Sector Investment FY 1978 - FY 1981
(in millions of US dollars, current)
TOTAL           1977/78           1978/79            1979/80           1980/81
Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.   Govt.  Extern.
A. Ongoing Commitments
1.  TPTC Operatio 1r    2/          7.4       -       1.7       -       1.8       -       1.9       -       2.0       -
2.  Improvement ProJectn -         12.0    31.7       6.9    13.2       3.7    15.9       0-4      1.8      1.0      0.8
3.  Road Maintenance3/             12.4      8.5      2.5      2.0      2.8      2.8      3.4      2.8      3.7      0.9 4/
Sub-Total                      31.8    40.2      11.1    15.2       8.3    18.7       5.7      4.6      6.7      1.7
4. Proposed Fifth Transport
Project-Road Component        4.1    11.1       0.2     0.6       2.1     5.7       1.4      3.8      0.4      1.0
Total Requirement              35.9    51.3      11.3    15.8      10.4    24.4       7.1      8.4      7.1      2.7
1/ Mission estimate of transport related share of 50% total TPTC budget. (US$2.6 million in 1975/76).
2/ Includes local currency provision of US$4.0 million equivalent in 1977/78 to  meet  Southern Road
cost overruns.
3/ Based upon SEPRRN 5-year maintenance program and USAID phase II assistance program.
4/ External financing for maintenance drops due to termination of current equipment procurement program.
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1978



- 47 -
TABLE 2.3
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Revenue from Road User Charges 1974-1977
(in millions of US dollars)
1973/1974       1974/1975      1975/1976       1976/1977
Petrol, diesel and lubricants1/          3.11             4.25           3.97           4.50
Tax on first registrations               0.38             0.40           0.38           0.66
Registrations fees                       0.30             0.32           0.30           0.32
Drivers permits                          0.10             0.11           0.13           0.15
Import tax on vehicle                    1.20             2.38           3.66           5.63
Import tax on spare parts                0.17             0.19           0.24           0.30
Import tax on tires                      0.26             0.27           0.47           0.80
5.52            7.92           9.15           12.36
1/   Includes import duty and excise taxes
Source: TPTC(SAT), Customs and Ministry of Finance
January 1978



- 48 -
HAITI                                        TABLE 3.1
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Characteristics of 12 Coastal Shipping Ports - Summary
Quality Evaluation                   Wharf                  Condition of Facilities
Access                                     Con-
Natural   from                  (Dimensions in m)  struc-                     Handling    Ware-
Port               Shelter  the Sea  AnchoraRe    Depth 1/ Length    tion    Wharf  Lishter  Equipment  housing
Fort Liberte          E        G          E         N          N         N        N        P         N          N
Cap Haitien           A        G          G          7         180       C        G        N         G          G
Port-de-Paix          A        G          G          1          50       W        A        A         P          G
Mole St. Nicolas      G        G          G         N          N         N        N        N         N          N
Govaives              G        G          G          2.5       100       C        A        N         P          P
St. Marc              A        G          G         3.5         72       C        P        -         P          G
Petit Goave           A        G          G          1          50       C        G        A         P          G
Miragoane             A        G          G          6          35       C        A        N         P          P
Jereise               P        G          G          3.5        60       C        A        P         P          P
Les Cayes             A        A          G          2.5        91       C        G        C         A          G
Baie des Flamands    E         G          G         N          N        N         N        N         N          N
Jacmel                P        G          A          5         130       C        G        A         P          E
Legend:
N - Non-existent         W   W Wood
P - Poor                 C - Concrete
A - Average
G - Good
E - Excellent
1/ At Mean Low Water
Sourcee NTS report; Louis Berger International, Inc.
August 1977



- 49 -
TABLE 5.1
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in thousands of US dollars)
Disbursed                    Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                    Quarterly                    Disbursement
FY 1979
September 1978                         170                            170
December 1978                           620                           790
March 1979                           1,320                          2,110
June 1979                            2,090                          4,200
FY 1980
September 1979                       2,650                          6,850
December 1979                        2,630                          9,480
March 1980                            1,850                        11,330
June 1980                            1,330                         12,660
FY 1981
September 1980                         820                         13,480
December 1980                           490                        13,970
March 1981                              470                        14,440
June 1981                               380                        14,820
FY 1982
September 1981                          180                        15,000
Assumptions:  Loan Signature                       May 1978
Invitations to bid                  May 1978
Awards of Contracts                 July 1978
Completion of Construction          March 1981
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Existing Project Road Characteristics
Terrain                     Surface                          Formation                                  Traffic
T___         Width {m)         Alignment          Elevation        Drainage         1977 ADT
1.  Cap Haitien - Carrefour                Flat              Paved          6 Paved          Straight           At Gradee      Inadequate            760
La Mort                                                  (Old)                            (Good)
2.  East Branch:
(a)  Carrefour La Mort -              Flat              Gravel           8-10            Straight           Raised             Good             290
Quartier Morin                                                                                         0-0.06
(b)  Quartier Morin -                 Flat          Gravel-Earth          6-8            Straight          At Grade           Fair-            75-250
Trou du Nord                                                                         (Good)           or snmReb.      Inadequate
3.  South Branch:
(a)  Carrefour La Mort -              Flat          Paved-Gravel        6 Paved          Straight          At Grade        Inadequate         180-195
Barriere - Battante
C
(b)  Barriere Battante               Rolling        Gravel-Earth          5-6            Winding              Cut-        Inadequate-          70-80
Grande Riviere du Nord                                                           (sharp curves)         Fill          Deficient
(c)  Barriere Battante                Flat              Paved           6 Paved          Straight          At Grade           Fair-             115
Milot                                               (Old)                                                            Inadequate
4.  Plaine du Nord -                  Flat-Rolling          Gravel             5-6            Straight-         1.5 km in      Inadequate             90
Northern Road                                                                             Winding           Riverbed
5. Marche Leon, Access Road           Flat-Rolling       Gravel-Earth         3-5            Straight-          At Grade        Deficient           25-30 1/
Winding           or Cut
1/  Estimated from interviews with local truckers and merchants.  No traffic count data available.
Source:  INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study                                                                                                                 i
January 1978



- 51 -                         TABLE 6.2
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Paved Road Improvement Standards
Rural            Semi-Urban
Width: (m)
- Pavement                           6.0                 7.0
- Shoulders                       0.5 - 1.5              2.0
Road Elevation:  (m)                0.4 - 0.5              0.5
(above max. high water)
Minimum Curve Radius: (m)
- Desirable                          120                 240
- Absolute                            40                 120
Maximum Grade:
- Flat                                4%                 4%
- Rolling                             6%                 n/a
Min. Cross-slope:                      2.5%                2.5%
Note:  85% - 90% of all paved project roads are on tangent
alignment and maximum grade never exceeds 4%.
Source: INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Road and Bridge Construction Cost Estimates
(in US dollars)
N O R T H E R N   R O A D S                                 MAJOR  BRIDGES           MINOR RD.
Cap  Haitien  Carr La Mort        Carr La Mort       Northern Rd.
to              To                  To                to        Hyppolite  Trois Riviere   Marche Leon
Carr La Mort  Trou  du Nord  Grde. Riv. duNord  Plainedu Nord   Bridge             Bridge        Access Road
1. Mobilization                            12,500         35,000              34,000            6,500         30,000       30,000          22,000
2. Clearing, Demolition and
Earthworks                           373,000         701,500            846,500           159,500        180,000       99,000         326,500
3. Drainage Works                          80,500        206,500            168,000            44,000        170,000       11,000         100,000
4. Sub-base, Base and Pavement            778,500      1,777,000          1,432,000           273,000        210,000       48,000         151,000
5. Miscellaneous
(Signalization, etc.)                 24,500         38,500              56,000           14,000          60,000        2,000            -
Roa-dworks  Subtotal                 1,271,000      2,758,500          2,536,000           497,000        650,000      190,000         600,000
6. Bridges                                   -           583,500             332,500             -         1,000,000      640,000
7. Road and Bridge Total               1,271,000       3,342,000          2,869,000           497,000      1,650,000      830,000         600,000
Physical Contingencies (10%)          127,000         334,000            287,000            50,000        250,000 1/   83,000            60,000
Grand Totals                      1,398,000      3,676,000           3,156,000           547,000      1,900,000      913,000         660,000
Cost per KmC
Roadworks                         194,000         152,000            122,000           148,000        475,000 2/  139,000            51,600  v
Roads and Bridges                   n/a           185,000            139,000              -             n/a          n/a              -      a
1/ 15% used since final plans not yet completed.
2/ Includes sidewalks, city drains, lighting, etc.
Source: INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
Januiary 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast on Project Roads and Bridges
(AADT in Vehicles per day)
Tap Tap and
ROAD SECTIONS                       Traffic Type      Total         Cars          Jee ps    Pass. Truck  7.5 Ton Truck  12 Ton Truck
1979  1989  1979   1998  1979  1998  1979   1998   1979   1998    1979  1998
Cap Haitien-Carrefour La Mort                Normal           771 4,597   260  2,096   106   855   237  1,212    151    386           17    48
Generated        99    629   47    379    28   226    24    123          -       -        -
Total           8    5,226
Carrefour La Mort - Limonade                 Normal           312 1,656   62    500    41   331   112    573           81    207       16    45
Generated        23    156     8      65      5    40    10       51            -        -     _
Total           335  1,812                         _
Limonade - Trou du Nord                      Normal           131    711   22    177    26   210    42    215          28      72      13    37
Generated        10     68     3      24      3    24      4      20     -       -        -     -
Total           141    779
Carrefour La Mort- Barriere Battante         Normal           238  1,497   88    709    41   331    68    348          34      89       7    20
Generated        30    215   14    113        7    56      9      46     -       -              _
Total           268  1,712
Barriere Battante- Grande Riviere du Nord Normal               88    411   13    105    14   113    24    123          22      56       5    14
Generated         5      31    1       8      1     8      3      15     _
Total            93    442
Barriere Battante - Milot                    Normal           152  1,006   67    540    26   210    41    210          15      38       3     8
Generated        16    114    7       56      4    32      5      26     -                _      _
Total           168  1,120
Plaine du Nord- Northern Road                Normal           121    605   16    129    21   169    26    184          48    123        _     _
Generated         6      39  _1    _          2 Z        16       j              - _  _
Total           127    644
Marche Leon Access Road                      Normal            28     78    _       _     24    67    -        _        4      11       _     _
BRIDGE RELOCATIONS
Hyppolite Bridge 1/                          Diverted        1033  6,704  436  3,515   157  1266   272  1,508    168    415             _      _
Trois Rivieres Bridge                        Normal           119    556    8       65    26   210    31    159        26      62      26    62
1/  Includes 14% of generated passenger car-traffic.
Source:  INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study                                                                                                          a
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(US$/Km net of taxes)
R O AD S U R F A C E
Paved,               Gravel,          Paved, Poor Condition
Vehicle Type     Good Condition       Good Condition      Unpaved, Fair Condition   Unpaved, Poor Condition
Passenger Car            0.089               0.107                    0.147                       0.183
Jeep                     0.092               0.117                    0.169                       0.211
Tap-tap                  0.092               0.117                    0.165                       0.211
Passenger Truck          0.406               0.500                    0.654                       0.815               1
U'
7.5 Ton Truck           0.391               0.549                     0.735                       0.909
Source: INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study
January 1978
t-j
U'n



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Highways Component
Sensitivity of Economic Indicators to Selected Variations in Costs and Benefits
SECTION                                         BASE ESTIMATES                                               SENSITIVITY OF IRR
All Costs and      Without Time      Without Bridge         Construction Cost Variation          Benefits VariationsZ7
all Benefits        Benefits            Costs!/              +15%               -157.               +25/o     -25%
included
IRR      FYB      IRR      FYB       IRR       FYB
Cap Haitian - Carrefour la Mort                41.7      36.0    37.1      31.7      ----      ----          37.3               47.7                50.8      32.5
Carrefour la Mort - Limonade                   16.6      16.2    15.2      11.1     21.4       16.6          14.3               18.5                19.8      12.0
Limonade - Trou du Nord                        14.4       9.9    13.2       9.3     15.2       10.7          12.7               16.5                17.6      10.7
Carrefour la Mort - Barriere 3attante          23.3      17.1    20.5      14.9     26.0       19.5          21.0               26.4                28.0      18.2
Barriere iattantc - rrand Riviere du Nord    15.0        10.4    13.7      9.71     16.6       11.9          13.1               17.1                18.2      11.2
Barriere .attante - Milot                      13.7       8.2    10.2       6.2     ----       ----          12.1               15.7                16.7      10.3
Plaine du Nord - Northern Road                 17.5     12.7    16.1       11.3     ----       ----          15.5               20.0                21.2      13.4
Marche Leon Access Road                        25.3      22.1    ----      ----     ----       ----          22.4               29.2                31.1      19.2
1/  Eliminates effect of bridge costs on short sections of road.  Bridge costs should be borne by
whole links instead of individual sections.
2/  Includes all benefits.
IRR = Internal Rate of Return
FYB = First Year Benefits
Source:  INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Major Bridges
Sensitivity of Economic Indicators to Selected Variations in Costs and Benefits
BASE ESTIMATES                                    SENSITIVITY OF IRR
All Costs and all Benefit       Without Time BeConstruction Cost Variation   Benefits Variation
Included__             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
IRR    BCR   -NPV US$1000      IRR   BCR  NPV US$1000
At 9%    9%   15%             At 9   9X    19        . + 15%         -15%             +25      -25%
HYPPOLITE BRIDGE
Open 1980                    39.2   5,7   7,953  4,023   34.2    4.7  6,289 3,06           35.1         44.7              47.0    31.3
Open 1981-2 years            34.2   5.1   7,380  3,52    30.2    4.2  5,786 2,623          31.0         38.4              40.1    28.0         l
construction period and                                                                                                                        v
10 increase in cost
TROIS RIVIERES BRIDGE
Open 1981 before current    19.0   2.3       803    216   17.7    2.30   670   139         16.9         21.8              22.9    14.9
bridge collapses
Bridge collapses before
alternative structure
is built in:
1978     over 100      9.8   6,540  3,98 over 100  9.7  6,440 3,92             -           -                 _        _
1979     over 100      9.2   6,121  3,59 over 100  9.1  6,011 3,527            -           - _               _
1980     over 100      8.7   5,735  3,246 over 100  8.6  5,628 3,185           -           - _                _
1981     over 100      8.2   5,337  2,91 over 100  8.1  5,235 2,85             -           -                 _        _
1982     over 100      7.7   5,009  2,63 over 100  7.6  4,851 2,55             -           -                 -        _
1983     over 100      7.2   4.570  2,327 over 100  7,1  4,477 2,279           -           - _
Source:  INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates                           IRR = Internal Rate of Return
BCR = Benefit Cost Ratio
February 1978                                                                                NPV = Net Present Value



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Rates of Return for Roads and Bridges
NPV in thousands of US dollars
IRR        at discount rates of:
Roads and Bridges                                       (%)     9%       15%     20%      25%
1.   Cap Haitien- Carrefour La Mort                                   41.7    6,035   3,121   1,863   1,109
2.   Eastern Branch:  Carrefour La Mort- Trou du Nord                 15.2    2,285       54  -1,469  -2.325
3.   Southern Branch: Carrefour La Mort - Grand Riviere du Nord       19.0    3,373      864    -202    -834
and Milot
4.   Plaine du Nord- Northern Road                                    17.5       483      95     -71    -169      1
Ul
Subtotal for Roads in the Northern Plain                 20.3   12,176   4,134       121  -2,219     l
5.   Marche Leon Access Road                                          25.3    1,024      440     175       10
Total for all Roads                                   20.6   13,200   4,574       296  -2,209
6.   Hyppolite Bridge                                                39.2    7,953   4,023   2,338   1,335
7.   Trois Rivieres Bridge                                            19.0      803      216     -37    -189
Subtotal Major Bridges                                   34.1    8,756   4,239   2,301   1.146
Project Total                                                   23.5   11,956   8,813   2,597  -1,063
Source: INGEROUTE-SOHICCO Feasibility Study and Mission Estimates
January 1978                                                                                                      ON



TABLE 7.1
58~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Development of Port-au-Prince Coastal Shipping Traffic (tons)
1976     1980      1985      1990      1995
Departing cargo
1i/
Cement-                             1,000    1,360    2,000    2,940    4,320
Flour 1/                               500      610       800    1,030    1,330
Fruits                              3,000    3,650    4,650    5,940    7,580
Industrial products                11,000   13,890   18,580   24,870   33,280
Petroleum products                  2,000    2,720    4,000
Rum                                 4,000    4,500    5,220    6,050    7,010
Fertilizer                          1,000    1,520    2,560    4,310    7,260
Total                              22,500   28,250   37,810   45,140   60,780
Arriving cargQ
Wood and charcoal                  17,000   19,130   22,180   25,710   29,810
Coffee                              6,000    6,750    7,820    9,080   10,520
Cacao                               1,000    1,130    1,300    1,510    1,750
Sisal                                  600      670       780       910    1,050
Corn                                2,000    2,720    4,000    5,870    8,630
Pistache                               200      270       400       590       860
Sugar                                  250      370       590       950    1,530
Livestock                           1,300    1,770    2,600    3,820    5,610
Hides                                  400      540       800    1,170    1,730
Salt                                5,000    6,120    7,890   10,170   13,100
Miscellaneous                        2,000    2,520    3,380    4,520    6,050
Total                              35,750   41,990   51,740   64,300   80,640
Cargo travelling with itinerant
merchants and other travellers   23,000   31,290   46,000   67,550   99,260
1/  Flour mill and cement factory have own wharves where most cargo is loaded.
These tonnages are only those loaded at the APP port.
Source:  Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports-Engineering and Economic Study;
INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978



- 59 -                               TABLE 7.2
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Development of Jeremie Port Traffic (tons)
Arriving cargo                        1976      1980     1985      1990      1995
Agricultural products                 500       640      810    1,040    1,330
Sugar                               1,200    1,760    2,930         -         -
Flour                               1,300    1,590    2,030    2,610    3,350
Cement                                900    1,220    1,800    2,640    3,890
Petroleum products                  1,500    2,040    3,000    3,830    4,890
Rice                                  800       970    1,240    1,580    2,020
Salt                                2,000    2,250    2,610    3,020    3,510
Industrial products                 3,000    3,790    5,075    6,785    9,080
Fertilizer                            400       700    1,390    2,780    5,570
Total                              11,600   14,960   20,885   24,285   33,640
Departing cargo
Coffee                              4,000    4,500    5,220    6,050    7,020
Cacao                                 800       900    1,040    1,210    1,400
Corn                                4,000    4,860    6,200    7,920   10,000
Livestock and hides                   500       610      780       990    1,260
Other agricultural products         3,500    4,490    6,040    8,000   10,480
Sugar                                 -         -        -      10,440   17,660
Total                              12,800   15,360   19,280   34,610   47,920
Cargo travelling with itinerant
merchants and other travellers    6,300    7,950   10,635   13,235   19,050
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports-Engineering and Economic Study;
INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978



TABLE 7.3
- 60-
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Development of Port-de-Paix Port Traffic (tons)
1976=/  1980      1985      1990     1995
Arriving cargo
Flour                              5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
Sugar                              1,900    2,140    2,480    2,870    3,330
Cement                             3,000    3,645    4,650    5,940    7,575
Port-de-Paix - Cap Haitien           900    1,050    1,280    1,560    1,900
Total                             10,800   11,835   13,410   15,370   17,805
Departing cargo
Livestock                          1,000    1,500    2,000    5,000   10,000
Charcoal and wood                  3,000    3,500    4,000    4,500    5,000
Port-de--Paix - Cap Haitien          400      470      570       690      840
Total                              4,400    5,470    6,570   10,190   15,840
Local Port-de-Paix - Tortue traffic
Departing cargo                      720      840    1,070    1,300    1,580
Arriving cargo                     1,200    1,400    1,760    2,080    2,530
1/ Potential traffic partly was transported by road.
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports-Engineering and Economic Study;
INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978



- 61 -                     TABLE 7.4
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Passenger Traffic Development
Estimated Arriving and Departing Passengers
Port au Prince                 Jeremie
1976                   70,000                      41,600
1980                   85,100                      50,600
1985                  108,600                      64,500
1990                  138,600                      82,4oo
1995                  176,900                     105,100
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Organization and Financial
Study; J. C. Buckley, Inc.
January 1978



- 62 -                             TABLE 7.5
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Coastal Shipping Pilot Ports Component
Capital Cost Estimate
(in thousands of US dollars)
Pilot Port Locations                Totals
Port au                     Port de       for 3
Item                         Prince       J'remie        Paix         Ports
1.   Construction:
Wharf Construction            400          363            149          912
Dredging & Fill               835          394           130        1,359
Paving                         68           40             15          123
Mooring Buoys                  35           -             -             35
Sheds:  Cargo                 130           -             -           130
Passenger              17           17            -            34
Utilities & Misc.              25           13              6          44
Subtotal                         1,510          827            300        2,637
2.   Contingencies:
Physical                      227          124            45          396
Price                         181           99            36          316
Subtotal                           408          223             81          712
3.   Consulting Services: 1/
Engineering                   277          152            55          484
Management                    163           89            33          285
Subtotal                           440          241             88         769
4.   Total                             2,358        1,291           469        4,118
1/ Services related to project implementation only; excludes costs of preinvestment
studies for future projects.
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Engineering and Economic Study:
INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978



- 63 -                           TABLE 7.6
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Studies of Coastal Shipping Development and Cap Haitien
Cost Estimates
Estimated
Coastal Shipping Development Study                                       Total Cost
(US$-OO)
Phase I
Professional Staff (14 man-months @ 7.0)                          98
Subsistence and Travel                                            29
Miscellaneous Direct Costs                                        15
Subtotal           142
Contingency         18
Total         160
Phase II
Professional Staff (32 man-months @ 7.0)                         224
Subsistence and Travel                                            80
Subsurface Investigations (25 borings)                            75
Soundings (8 sites)                                               40
Miscellaneous Direct Costs                                        31
Subtotal           450
Contingency         50
Total         500
Cap Haitien Port Study
Professional Staff (40 man-months @ 7.0)                         280
Subsistence and Travel                                           100
Bulkhead Tests                                                    50
Subsurface Investigations                                         50
Soundings                                                         40
Miscellaneous Direct Costs                                        20
Subtotal           540
Contingency         60
Total         600
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1978



- 64 -                            TABLE 7.7
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Benefits for Coastal Shipping Ports 1980
Port-au-Prince                                                 US$ Benefit
Cargo handling:
Lighterage 30512 tons x $1.50
Handling across vessels 11442 x .50                             9      /
Transfer costs           76280 x .55
Reduced road distance to city center:
Cargo 76280 tons x .47
Passengers 85100 x .081                                         42745
Protection of ships x cargo:
Yearly storms $37992
Occasional  hurricanes 8244                                     46236
Total:             182424
Jeremie
Cargo handling:
Lighterage 10806 tons x $1.50
Handling across vessels 6304 x .50
Transfer costs 22513 x .70                                      351201'
Passenger handling:
50600 passengers x .50                                          25300:'
Cargo time savings:
30460 tons x .79                                                240631/
Protection of ships and cargo:
Yearly storms 20376
Occasional  hurricanes 2205                                     22531
Total:            107014
Port-de-Paix
Savings on ship compared to truck transport:
tons    Saving per ton  nTSS Benefit
Flour, sugar                       7140          1.92          13709
Cement                             3645          5.34          19464
Wood, charcoal                     3500          4.33          15155
Livestock                          1500          3.76           5640
53968=
Cargo handling:
Present cabotage                   1520        x 2.0            3040-l
Local cargo                        2240        x 0.5            11201/
4160
Total:        58128
1/ Direct financial benefits to port users.
2/ Of which financial benefit to users = 15785 tons x 1.92.
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Engineering and Economic
Study; INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Costs and Benefits of Coastal Shipplng Ports
US$ ('000)
Port-au-Prince                           Jeremie                              Port-de-Paix
Investment   Operating   Benefits    Investment   Operating   Benefits    Investment   Operating   Benefits
Year           cost         cost I/                   cost         cost 11                   cost         Cost 1/
1979           1860           0            0          1028           0           0           376            0          58
1980              0          14         182              0          14         107             0           12          60
1981              0          14         196              0          14         114             0           12          62
1982              0          14         211              0          14         122             0           12          62
1983              0          14         227              0          14         131             0           12          64
1984              0          14         244              0          14         140             0           12          67
1985              0          14         262              0          14         150             0           12          69
1986              0          14         283              0          14         161             0           12          73
1987              0          14         306              0          14         174             0           12
1988              0          14         330              0          14         187             0           12          86 1
1989              0          14         357              0          14         201           294           18          91
1990           1274          22         385            889          20         216             0           18          91
1991              0          22         416              0-         20         233             0           18         103
1992              0          22         449              0          20         251             0           18         109
1993              0T         22         485              0          20         270             0           18         116
1994               0         22          524             0          20          290             0          18         122
1995              0          22         566              0          20         312             0           18         130
1996              0          22         612              0          20         336             0           18         130
1997              0          22         660              0          20         361             0           18         138
1998              0          22         713              0          20         389             0           18         1462,
1999              0           0        26861i            0           0        1599-            0            0         562
1/  Additional maintenance cost only and not present administration cost.
i/ Includes residual values
Source:  Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Engineering and Economic Study; INGEROUTE-SOHICCO
January 1978
*oo



-66 -                           TABLE 7.9
HAITI
FIFTH WRSPORT PROJECT
Coastal Shipping Ports - Economic Rate of Return
Port-au-Prince       Jeremie      Port de Paix
Rate calculated on basis                     13.7                13.0          16.1
of best estimate
First year benefit                            8.3                 8.3          11.3
Sensitivity Analysis:
Variations in Construction
Costs:  +15%                               11.5               10.8          13.4
-15%                              16.2                15.8          19.8
Variations in Project
Benefits:  +25%                            17.5               17.3          22.3
-25%                            9.5                8.3           9.8
Variations in Operating
Costs:  +25%                               13.5               12.8          15.5
-25%                              13.8                13.3          16.7
Labour cost shadow priced                  11.3               10.4          11.1
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Cash Flow of APP including Coastal Shipping Ports
(In thousands of US dollars)
Sources of Funds:                                  1977 -       1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
Internally Generated Cash
Net operating revenues                     1,870        1,415        1,589        1,587        1,701        1,882        2,060        2,056        2,332
Depreciation                                  220          518          872       1,083        1,183        1,214        1,244        1,464         1,497
Other non-operating revenues                 697          622         .661          700          740          780          819          859          898
2,787        2,555       3,122        3,370        3,624        3,876        4,123         4,379        4,727
Loans
IDB                                        6,540        4,777          -            -            -            -            -            -             -
IDA                                           -           600        2,647          -            -            -            -            -            -
6,540        5,377       2,647           -            -            -            -            -            -
Government contribution                          -             40        1,089          -            -            -            -            -            -
(coastal ports and Cap Haitien Study)            -                         -           -            -            -             -            -            -
Total Sources of Funds                     9,327         7,972       6,858        3,370        3,624        3,876        4,123        4,379        4,727
Uses of Funds:
Capital investments
International ports                        8,049        9,408        2,062        2,474        2,988        3,001        3,013        3,079         1,043
Coastal shipping ports                        -            640       3,136          -             -            -            -            -
8,049       10,048        5,198       2,474        2,988        3,001        3,013         3,079        1,043
Cap Haitien Study
Debt Service                                                               600
International ports (IDB Loan)               -              72         631          603          579          551          647           729          686
Cap Haitien Study                            -              -            -            4            4            4             4          16            25
Coastal shipping ports                       -              -            -           24           23           22           21            74          128
inCrease/(Decrea s) s ping  workg            -             72          631          631          606          577          672           819          839
Increase/(Decrease) in working
capital excluding cash                         1,117           32          109           52           53           55           53           53           70
Total Uses of Funds                        9,166       10,152        6.538        3,157        3,647         3,633       3,78          3,95      1   952
Cash at beginning of year                      2,434        2,595          415          735          948          925        1,168        1,553        1,981
Increase/(Decrease) in cash                      161       (2,180)         320         213           (23)         243          385          428        2,775
Cash at end of year                            2,595          415          735          948          925        1,168        1,553        1,981        4,756
1/  APP's financial year is from October 1 to September 30.                                                                                                            t 
2/  1977 figures refer to international port operations; thereafter international as well as pilot coastal shipping ports.                                           0
Source:  APP and Mission Estimates
April 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Cash Flow of Pilot Coastal Shippins Ports Prolect
(In thousands of US dollars)
Sources of Funds:                 I/  1978          1979         1980         1981          1982         1983          1984         1985         1986          1987         1988          1989         1990
Internal Generation of Cash -
including depreciation               -             -            18           36           47            59           78            86          105          110           113          115           115
IDA Credit                          600         2,167           -            -             -            -             -            -            -             -            -             -            -
Government Contribution              40           969           -            -             -            -            -             -            -             -            -            -             -
Total                       640         3.136           18           36            47           59            78           86          105           110          113           115          115
Application of Funds:
Investments                         640        3,136            -            -             -            -            -             -            -             -            -             -            -
Debt Service              ) 2/
(Interest and Principal )            -             -            24           23           22            21           74          128           129          121           114          108           100
Total                        640        3,136           24            23           22           21            74          128          129           121          114           108          100
Cash at beginning of year                -            -             -            (6)           7           32            70           74            32            8            (3)          (4)           3
Increase/(Decrease) in cash              -            -             (6)          13           25           38             4          (42)          (24)         (11)           (1)           7           15
Cash at end of year                      -            -             (6)           7           32            70           74           32             8           (3)           (4)           3           18
1/  A rate increase of 3% in real term is assumed in 1986.
2/ Based on 25 years term including six years grace period,
interest is calculated at 1.0% from mid-1978 to mid-1985 and 2% thereafter.
Interest during construction period 1978-1979 is capitalized.
Source: APP and Mission Eatimates
January 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Balance Sheet of APP including Coastal Shipping Ports, Year Ending Sept. 30
(In thousands of US dollars)
1976        1977          1978        1979         1980         1981         1982          1983         1984         1985
ASSETS:                                          (Actual)  (Tentative)       ----------------------------------- F o r e c a s t ------------------------------------
Fixed Assets
Property and Equipment                    3,282.8      3,599.9    27,046.0    24,235.0    36,859.0    39,768.0    40,687.0    41,616.0    50,058.0    51,011.0
Less Accumulated Depreciation             (1,075.3)   (1,285.6)   (2,156.0)   (3,018.0)   (4,091.0)   (5.264.0)   (6,468.0)   (7,702.0)   (9,156.0)  (10,643.0)
Net Fixed Assets                        2,207.5     2,314.3    24,890.0    24,217.0    32,/b3.U         34,504.U    J4,Liz.U    .,SJA.U    40,902.0    40,368.0
Work in Progress                           7,147.8    16,192.6       3,790.0      8,726.0      1,500.0      1,500.0      3,500.0      5,500.0        -            -
Current Assets
Cash                                       2,434.6      2,595.5        415.0        735.0        948.0       925.0      1,168.0       1,553.0      1.981.0      4.756.n
Accounts Receivable                          833.0      1,323.6      1,356.0      1,465.0      1,517.0      1,570.0      1,625.0      1,678.0      1,731.0      1,801.0
Inventory (materials & supplies)              11.1         13.3         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0
Total Current Assets                   3,278.7      3,932.4      1,786.0      2,215.0      2,480.0      2,510.0      2,808.0       3,246.0      3,727.0      6,572.0
Other assets                               1,582.3        259.7        320.0        383.0        449.0        518.0        590.0        664.0        741.0        821.0
TOTAL ASSETS                           14,216.3    22,699.0    30,786.0    35,541.0    37,197.0    39,032.0    41,117.0    43,324.0    45,370.0    47,761.0
LIABILITIES:                                                                                                                                                                          X
Current Liabilities                                                                                                                                                               10
Accounts payable                             379.8        177.8        178.0        178.0        178.0        178.0        178.0        178.0        178.0        178.0
Accrued expenses and other liab.             802.6        380.9        381.0        381.0        381.0        381.0        381.0        381.0        381.0        381.0
Total Current Liabilities              1,182.4        558.7         559.0        559.0        559.0       559.0         559.0        559.0        559.0        559.0
Long-Term Debts
IDB                                        6,183.2    12,723.3    17,500.0    17,500.0    17,500.0    17,500.0    17,500.0    17,333.0    17,000.0    16,667.0
IBRD                                         -           -             600.0      3,247.0      3,247.0      3.247.0      3.247.0      3.247.0      3.183.0      3,064.0
Total                                  6,183.2    12,723.3    18,100.0    20,747.0    20,747.0    20,747.0    20,747.0    20,580.0    20,183.0    19,731.0
Government Equity & retained earnings
(including surplus on revaluation)            6,850.7      9,417.0    12,127.0    14,235.0    15,891.0    17,726.0    19,811.0    22,185.0    24.628.0    27,471.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     14,216.3    22,699.0    30,786.0    35,541.0    37,197.0    39,032.0    41.117.0    43,324.0    45,370.0    47,761.0
Current Ratio                                      2.8          7.0          3.2          4.0          4.5          4.5           5.0          5.8          6.C         11.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                                 47/53       57/43         60/40        58/42        55/45        53/47        50/50        47/53        44/56         41/59
Source:   APP and Mission Estimates
April 1978



- 70 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Assumptions and Notes on Financial Forecast
for Pilot Ports Project
1. General
APP income statements since 1973 together with projections up to 1985
are presented in pages 4 and 5 of this Annex. The forecast is prepared in constant
US dollars of 1977. At present there are no charges imposed for the use of coastal
port facilities in Haiti other than a wharfage charge against vessels at Port Cite
Simone Duvalier which are as follows:
Vessels Tonnage                      Wharfage
From       To                         Dues
(For 10 days)
Minimum                                $1.00
21        40                         2.00
41        60                         3-00
61        80                         4.00
81       100                         5.00
101       150                         7.50
151       250                        12.50
These charges do not even cover the operating cost of Cite Simone.
2.  Proposed Tariffs
The following proposed structure and level of tariffs was used for cal-
culating revenues.
Port Dues                   30¢ / GRT  (at each port)
Dockage                     10¢ / GRT/day (at each port)
Passenger Wharfage          20¢ I passenger (at each port)
Cargo Wharfage               2¢ / package of 56 kilos (at each port)
Open Storage  Rental        50¢ / m2 per month
Shed Rental               $1.00 / m2 per month
Lay-up berth                 2¢-5¢ / GRT/day
3. Revenue Forecast
Revenues for 1980-1985 were obtained by applying various proposed tariffs to
the traffic forecast after converting tons of cargo into Gross Register Tons
(GRT) and GRT/day. The traffic forecast excludes the (i) passenger traffic to
and from the island La Tortue because the sailboats do not use port facilities
and (ii) the packages accompanied with small traders from coast to coast and
(iii) charcoal, salt and wood traffic at Cite Simone Duvalier which do not use the port
facility. The tariffs are not assumed to change until 1985 except to cover
inflation.



-71 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
4. The Break-even Need
The tariff needed to produce revenues which would cover 2% interest was
expressed in terms of total costs which was calculated as follows:
Cost           Service        Break-even          Proposed
Item          US$ '000          Units        need per unit          tariff
(1980)
Port dues             82.0         228,000 GRT           36¢                30¢
Dockage              105.0         205,000 GRT days      51¢               l0
Wharfage-passenger   32.0          Passengers            24¢                20¢
-cargo        25.0        No. of packages       1.5¢                2¢
Open Storage           7.0         m2/month              63¢               50¢
Shed Storage          48.0         m2/month            $3.69             $1.00
Lay-up Berth           -                                 -                 2¢-5%
Total Costs    299.0
Less depreciation
and interest        155.0
Working Costs  144.0                                                164.0
The proposed revenue of US$164,000, which is about 80X of the perceived benefits
to users, would recover the working costs (operating and maintenance costs) of
US$144,000 and would contribute partly for the recovery of depreciation.
5. Expense Forecast
Personnel cost was calculated on the expected man-power as follows:
La Saline              7 employees
Cit6 Simone Duvalier  6
Jeremie                4     "
Port-de-Paix           4
Total           21 employees
.No increase in their numbers was forecast.  The latest salaries, after a recent
increase of about 20% in October 1977, were taken into consideration.  A small
amount equivalent to 1-1.5% was included in administration cost to allow for
real term increases in salaries. Main office support staff (overhead cost)
for pilot ports was assumed to be 25% of labor cost. Depreciation was calcu-
lated separately for each type of assets included in the project. APP's
existing depreciation rates were used (mooring posts 20%, pier 2.5%, pavings
7% and sheds 5%). Annual operating and maintenance costs were estimated by
applying a percentage to investment cost. These percentages were basically
the results of APP consultants' engineering studies (e.g., 7% on paving



- 72 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
investment, 2.5% on passenger sheds investment and 3% on cargo sheds investment).
The only foreign financing for this project is through IDA Credit. An interest rate
of 1% between 1978 and 1985 and 2% thereafter with a loan term of 25 years including
a grace period of six years was used in calculating interest cost. The local cur-
rency cost would be granted by the Government, as an equity contribution.
6. Debt Service
APP Debt Service and Premium Payments 1978/1995
under loan agreement with IDB
(in US dollars)
Guarantee
Year           Principal           Interest             Premium            Total
1978              -                 175,000               -               175,000
1979              -                 175,000             525,000           700,000
1980              -                 175,000             525,000           700,000
1981              -                 175,000            525,000            700,000
1982              -                 175,000             525,000           700,000
1983            166,667             174,167             520,000           860,834
1984            333,333             170,833             510,000         1,014,166
1985            333,333             167,500             500,000         1,000,833
1986            583,333             276,667             486,250         1,221,250
1987            583,333             307,083             468,750         1,359,166
1988           583,333              208,750             451,250         1,333,333
1989            583,333             290,417             433,750         1,307,500
1990           583,333              282,083            416,250          1,281,666
1991           583,333              273,750             398,750         1,255,833
1992            583,333             265,417             381,250         1,230,000
1993           583,333              257,083             363,750         1,204,166
1994            583,333             248,750             346,250         1,178,333
1995           583,333              240,417             328,750         1,152,500
Source: APP and Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Organization and
Financial Study; J.C. Buckley, Inc.
April 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Income Statements of APP'. International and Coastal Shipping Ports (In Thousands of US Dollars) 2/
ACTUAL                     Estimated                                     Projection
1973       1974        1975        1976       1977        1978        1979                   1980                               1981
INT.       INT.           .        INT.       INT.        INT.        INT.       INT,       CS  _/      Total        I. C        CS        Total
Revenues                             1,819.6     1,775.9   1,902.2    2,856.4    4,228.7    4,241.0    4,861.0   5,134.0            126.6    5,260.6    5,412.0         180.5    5,592.5
Expenses:
operations                          808.0    1,039.8    1,270.4    1,343.5    1,655.6    1,777.0    1,869.0    1,951.0             33.5    1,984.5    2,033.0         44.7    2,077.7
Administration                      451.0      458.0       465.0       472.0      483.3       531.0       531.0       531.0        75.0      606.0       531.0       100.0       631.0
Total Working Cost              1,259.0    1,497.8    1,735.4    1,815.5    2,138.9    2,308.0    2,400.0    2,482.0           108.5    2 590.5    2,564.0         144.7    2,708.7
Depreciation                        183.7       197.6      197.1       215.2      220.4       518.0       872.0    1,026.0         57.5    1,083.5    1,106.0         76.6    1,182.6
Total Operating Cost            1,442.7    1,695.4    1,932.5    2,030.7    2,359.3    2,826.0    3,272.0    3,508.0           166.0    3,674.0    3,670.0         221.3    3,891.3
Net Operating Revenues                 376.9        80.5      369.6       825.7    1,869.4    1,415.0    1,589.0    1,626.0          (39.4)   1,586.6    1,742.0        (40.8)   1,701.2
Non-Operating Revenues (net)           349.4       342.8      432.0       579.6       696.8      622.0       661.0       700.0         -         700.0       740.0         -        740.n
Interest                                (0.2)       (0.9)      (0.7)       (0.2)        -         72.0       635.0       607.0        24.0      631.0       583.0        23.0       606.0
Net Revenues                           726.5       4?4.1      802.3    1,405.5    2,566.2    1,965.0    1,615.0    1,719.0           (63.4)   1,655.6    1,899.0        (63.8)   1,835.2
Working Ratio                           69          84          91         64          51          54         50          48          86          49          47          s0         48
Operating Ratio                         79          96        102          71          56          67         67          68         131          70         68         123          70
Times Interest Earned                   -           -          -                       -           19.7        2.5         2.7         -           2.5         3.0        -           2.8
Debt Service Coverage                   -           -           -          -           _           26.8         3.9        4.4         0.8         4.3         4.9         1.6        4.8           ia 
Return on Net Fixed Assets              -           -          _           _           _           10.4        6.5         6.1         -           5.6         5.8        _           5.1
1/ - International Operations.
2/ - Coastal Shipping Operations.
3/ - APP will become APN by 1979.
Notes - APP's financial year is October 1 to September 30. For cabotage ports, the operations assumed to start on January 1, 1980,
- The forecast for 1978-1985 is in 1977 constant dollars.
- Fixed assets were revalued on an estimated basis in 1977 (29Z increase),
Source: Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Organization and Financial Study; J.C, Buckley, Inc.
April 1978



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Income Statements of APP's International and Coastal Shipping Ports (In Thousands of US Dollars) 3/
Projection
1982                                1983                                1984                                 1985
INT.         CS        Total        INT.         CS        Total        INT.         CS         Total        INT.         CS        Total
Revenues                              5,697.0       193.1    5,890.1    5,976.0         206.7    6,182.7    6,255.0          225.9    6,480.9    6,638.0          238.6    6,876.6
Expenses:
Operations                        2,117.0         45.4    2,162.4    2,200.0          46.1    2,246.1    2,282.0           46.5    2,328.5    2,364.0          48.3    2,412.3
Administration                       531.0       101.0       632.0       531.0       102.0       633.0        531.0       102.3       633.3       531.0       104.3        635.3
Total Working Costs             2,648.0        146.4    2,794.4    2,731.0         148.1    2,879.1    2,813.0         148.8    2,961.8    2,895.0          152.6    3,047.6
Depreciation                       1,137.0        76.6    1,213.6    1,167.0          76.6    1,243.6    1.387.0           76.6    1,463.6    1,420.0          76.6    1,496.6
Total Operating Costs           3,785.0       223.0    4,008.0    3,898.0          224.7    4,122.7    4,200.0         225.4    4,425.4    4,315.0          229.2    4,544.2
Net Operating Revenues                1,912.0       (29.9)   1,882.1    2,078.0          (18.0)   2,060.0    2,055.0           0.5    2,055.5    2,323.0            9.4    2,332.4
Non-Operating Revenues (net)            780.0         -         780.0       819.0          -         819.0       859.0         -         859.0       898.0          -         898.0
Interest                                555.0        22.0       577.0       526.0        21.0       547.0       497.0         19.0       516.0       465.0         27.0       492.0
Net Revenues                          2,137.0       (51.9)   2,085.1    2,371.0         (39.0)   2,332.0    2,417.0          (18.5)   2,398.5    2,756.0          (17.6)   2,738.4
Working Ratio                            46          76          47          46           72          47          45          66          46           44          64          44
Operating Ratio                          66         115          68          65         109           67          67         100          68           65          96          66
Times Interest Earned                    3.5          -           3.3         4.0          -           3.8         4.2         -           4.0          5.1         0.7         4.8
Debt Service Coverage                    5.5          2.1         5.4         5.0          2.8         5.0         4.7         1.0         4.4          5.5         0.7         4.7
Return on Net Fixed Assets               6.2          -           5.5         6.8         -            6.0         6.1         -           5.5          6.2         0.3         5.7
0
1/  - International Operations.
2/  -  Coastal Shipping Operations.                                                                                                                                                            '
3/  - APP will become APN by 1979.
Notes - APP's financial year is October I to September 30.  For cabotage ports, the operations assumed to start on January 1, 1980.
- The forecast for 1978-1985 is in 1977 constant dollars.
- Fixed assets were revalued on an estimated basis in 1977 (297, increase).
Source:    Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Organization and Financial Study; J.C. Buckley, Inc.; APP and Mission Estimates
April 1978



_ 75 _
ANNEX 2
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project Files
1.  National Transport Study, Louis Berger International, Inc., August 1977
(eight volumes).
2.  Etudes des Routes et Ports de Cabotage, INGEROUTE-SOHTCCO, October 1977
(five volumes).
3. Coastal Shipping Ports Development - Organization and Financial Study,
James C. Buckley Inc., October 1977.
4. Project Paper, Haiti, Road Maintenance II, (USAID), June 28, 1977.
5. SEPRRN, General Budget, 1977-1978.
6. SEPRRN, Nominal Budget 1977-1978.
7. Plan Annuel et Budget de Developpement de L'Exercice 1977-1978,
Le Moniteur.
8. Enquete Sur le Trafic, TPTC, August 1976.



HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Present Organization of APP
SPECIAL COlWCIL                      SECRETARY OF STATE                         3NCiI
_ ________              FOR                                             _
Secy. of State for                     FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
Finances £ Economic                          AFFAIR                           P DIRECTOR GENERAL
Affaires (Chmn.)                                                            DIRECTOR_GENERAL
DIRECTOR GENERAL
ADOMINISTRATION PORTUAIRE
DE PORT-AU-PRINCE
W   _   ,~~~ ~  ~~_ _  ___________  .  .1 _______ ___..._.
DEPARTMENT OF            DEPARTMENT OF             DEPARTMENT OF             DEPANIMENT OF
PAD%IINISTRATIVE             PORT                    TECHNICAL                   PORT
SERVICES              OPERATIONS                  SERVICES                  SECURITY
CITE SIMONE DUVALIER                                     CAP HAITIEN
l'NJ,EMENT UNIT                                      MANLiEMENT UNIT
Source: Draft Report on Organization and Financial Study; James C. Buckley, Inc.
October 1977



- 77 -
CHART 2
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPOST PRnJECT
Tentative Execution Schedule
1978                     1979                                1980                         1981
July-   Oct. -   Jan.-   Apr.-   July-   Oct.-   Jan.-   Apr. -   july-   Oct.-   Jan.-   Apr. -
Sept.   Dcc.    Mar,    Jun.    Sept.    Dec.    Far.    Jun.    Sept.    Dec.    Mar.    Jun.
1.  Yorthern Road
(a) Cap Haitien - Trou du Nord               ---x---x---x----x---
(b)  Carr. La Mort - Gde. Riv. du Nord                            x---x---x---x---x---x x---x---x---x-
(c)  Plaine du Nord - North Road
2. ryppolite Bridge                                    x--x      -----x---x---X ---X       - --x
3. Trols Rivieres Bridne                                                                        x---x- x---x----x---x
4.  Marche Leon Accass Road                                                                                                                x---x--
5.  Coastal Shipping Porta                            x---x---x---x-      x---x----x-           ---x-
6.  Preinvestment Studies
/-Phase I--/
(a)  Bridge Rehabilitation                                        x---- X_-X -      X- X-- X -  X--- X_-X --X---X---,
(b)  Coastal Shipping Development             /--Phase 1/--
X ..    x --X x -          -- X---- X--X-  ..X
(c) Cap Haitian Port                                  -           x---
7.  Managsment Advisory Services                        x---x---x---x-      -----x---x---x-.-x---x-x-
Son,rce: Mission Estimates
January 1978



- 78 -
HAITI
CHART 3
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT                                            -
Proposed Organization National  Port Authority,Fort-au-Prince with Expanded Jurisdiction over Pilot Coastal Ports
SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR
FINANCE AND ECONOMIC
AFFAIR1
BOAPD Ol- fI[IECTORS                        BNRH
NATIONAL PORT                         PRESIDENT AND
AUTFIORITY                       DIRECTOR GENERAL
PORT- AU-4IIU.NCE
DIRECTOR GENERAL                     -
Supervision under
IDB Loan Agreement
DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMENT OF
AOMINISTRATIVE                  PORT                     TECDNICAL                   PORT
SERVTCrS                 OPERATIONS                  SERVICES                   SECURITY
COASTAL PORTS SERVICE                        CAP HAITIEN
GENERAL MANA1,ER*                    MANAGEMENT UNIT
-Oual assignment                                                      N         UNIT
COASTAL PORT              COASTAL PORT                COcA:TAL PORT             COASTAL PORT
UNIT                       UNIT                       UNIT                      UNIT
DE LA SALINE          CITE SIMONE DUVALIER            PORT [)E PAIX               JEnFMIE
MANulAGER*                 MANAGER                     MANAGER                   MANAG3ER
Source:   Draft Report, Coastal Shipping Ports - Organization and Financial Study; J.C. Buckley, Inc.
April 1978



CO   -                                                              OEsZ -"ototL                                                            0t                                   t                                  E4C
CN Lo                       "'P$ PGPJ'P tILM "PJPPPw Aopp sw
D  2        67   9  Y        V ;,                                                                            sop _ p
z    (  -         >,-111
Slt1'APJNRlOg lVNOI VN83iAI - -
S31aVZJNfIO lN3VWiJVPIAG
5CC                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SNIi
S3NVt8V  NSVLNAOW8L
THldV801?OSAH-4
HIPva
19AV11S
Pi                                           .       "                                                                                                   , ,                    ,,l:t,q-lVN4a
O~ISSNO)8O 'VIVIdSV
z                                           "-t'o p    *~                                                                                                                               soVclaoJ/  ;-t L      / <    '   '   lb
SbWl    0    HNI-Y
)            /              PAN "4SAo <                         5f5                                                                                                             WVDlAQ
r         >s>           A          -   >    X    -*         r    >    > C3S<  NIV S-
(  ,, 7@@!<t8 4 19~~~~~~~L:3fOSd  NOIllYl1]OdSNVHI  HldlJ
I   i        I    V            01 1 H
N    :1 0  f I             - 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VCPIN 7   1.1-M                                                                                                          4P'C    2 P J    gF J-
-o6f oNr V                            g                                 O O    =    9   /   1 N  1' 7 1
.Z1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -w  E  °G4 






E  X   i;  ;;   i  i! iE.   0i    i  E     72t24=  i:;   ! ; 0 ii  :  :-  0    liEV ;i 7tl:i  ;' 7     'aU5A15  =- '5  ;0;72-              0;   --A
hrtMcrno~~~~~                            HAFTI
"< / 7 et t 'o)rsf  000FIFTH TKANSPORTATION PROJECT                                                                                 V, -  ;       'OCEAN
NORTHERN REGION ROADS
Lowse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Po tMargot
_    N,                                                                                                          -                                          9
2~ ~ qEner   -- #                                                                ,       ¢      .             , 
C~~~~~~~~~~
'N -"j             ~~~~~Li.be'1"cfoC6
.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Creor    .,                                                                         Sugar M;-il'l 9i'--
NNJ'              Barr~~~~Iera   0
K<,.t>                     ^           _                ottoete          ', N <X            'N;D .  L
PI-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
_ 19  20                                                                                                                                                                        19'20
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To PROEC IMPOVEENT
Enriery ~ ~ ~   ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~          _     Rod
~~SomtRapftael~~~~~ "PI
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''
A/;Dzf"if    00                                         5>.60'0                                                Cmu=  onare
4 ts;                           5>zfe,  ½t                                               0      0                  eotetBudr     
19 2                                                                                                                                                                           19 205-  - , 9 A  2 20  72 1 0  F9
J    ui1uu       "'                                                           ALIUE  (in m6etersan Brdes :E  
-0-  v      4"'100oMoeP510ROD
"i~~~'33t                 Mom~~Sa~   Rod
I C vn'eev  '-  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
7050    flN  I                            ..   BOO - 3000                  Secondary Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
I  """3< 600   BOO          -       Commune Boundaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro  ~~l 
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~20'                                                                            729tO                                                          2(   '
""CastAnet 0nv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  10- -3cMay od






-BRD 13295
JANU4WJ 19W7
58A ,    r   A ,    C     r;4  ;
HAITIlEb
FIFTH TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
PORT-AU-PRlNCE AREA                                                                               CITE SIMONFE C4R   4$                                     EfA
L    R 4                                  R Z7 'Ef                                                                                 W
PORT AU-PR/NC! 8A ~  ~         ~         ~        ~       ~        C IT 
~ Pmroro-d N-   mol Sit ./                          / 
FO'~~ '-t                                    :   A:jrr ,i                                               y
~ N-O Wk-f (U~der (o, no  ~ 1o   r6                                                               \ / 4K /
C -l    -  Distict                                                                            F /    , /
-  oIt-Up A".o
18S0   200  400  60 00 800100  4200  "00  00100
440TER0
i-sP -- /-
t  -  -''  tA 5ALINE  --.                /         /                                                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,--
5'F'i/i &  0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.   4000I NCT Y                                                             .
R9RF-AC  ;  \,^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Nevr   Waorf  (Ur  der   ConstrUcti  )  /X/''//' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P



