Document of
FILE CoPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2256-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 4, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution ant may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)
US$1          = G5.00
Gl            = US$0.20
(The Gourde has, since 1919, been pegged to the dollar at the rate
of G5 = US$1.)
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Weights and Measures
Metric                               British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                     0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )                    0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                        2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAIPP     - Administration da l'Aeroport International de Port-au-Prince
(International Airport Authority)
APN       - Autorite Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority-successor
agency to Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince)
APP       - Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince (Port-au-Prince Port
Administration)
BNRH      -  Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti (National Bank of the
Republic of Haiti)
CEBTP     -  Centre d'Etude du Batiment et de Travaux Publics
CONADEP   -  Conseil National de Developpement et de la Planification
(National Development Planning Council)
CPS       -  Coastal Ports Service
FAC       -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
GRT       - Gross Registered Tons
IDB       -  Inter-American Development Bank
NTS       - National Transport Study
SAT       -  Service Autonome des Transports (Autonomous Transport Service)
SEPRRN    -  Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
(National Road Maintenance Service)
TPTC      -  Secretairerie des Travaux Publics, des Transports et des
Communications (Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFICIUL UK ONLY
HAITI
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Haiti
Beneficiaries:              Autorite Portuaire Nationale (APN), for the coastal
shipping ports component.
'mcunt:                     US$15.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:            The proceeds of the credit for the coastal shipping
ports component would be relent by the Government to
APN for 2i years, including six years of grace, at
1 percent interest until 1985 and at 2 percent there-
after.
Prolect Description:        The project will help achieve a better balance
between road transport and coastal shipping, overcome
the is"'lation of outlying areas and foster regional
economic activity. The project includes: (i) Road
and Bridge Component: Reconstruction or upgrading
of five road sections in the Northern Plain totalling
about 54 km and of about 13 km in  ;.e Southwest;
construction of new bridges to replace the Hyppolite
and Trois Rivieres bridges, and preinvestment
studies of high priority projects in the transport
sector. (ii) Coastal Shipping Ports Component:
Construction of coastal shipping port f-cilities at
Port-au-Prince, Jeremie and Port-de-Paix. The
project would also include 485 man/months of
technical assistance for design work, super-
vision of construction, management advisory
services and studies. The project would benefit
about 900,000 persons, mostly low-income rural
inhabitants.
The road and bridge component does not present any
special risks; risks for the port component are
acceptable, as preliminary engineering has been
carried out in sufficient detail to minimize the
risk of important cost overruns. APN's experience
as a port operator would allow it to expand its
responsibility to include coastal shipping ports
without any special risks. Traffic estimates are
conservative in the sense that they do not consider
the full growth potential attributable to the
project.
I This document hu a rstrictod distribution ao may be ued by recipients only in the performance   I
of their oficil duties. Its contents nay not otherwise be disclksd without World bak authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
------- US$ million -------
A.   Roads and Bridges
a.1  Civil works                   3.10        7.96      11.06
a.2 Supervision and
studies                    0.32        1.29        1.61
B.   Ports and Coastal Shipping
b.1  Civil works                   0.74        1.90       2.64
b.2 Engineering and
supervision                0.10        0.38        0.48
b.3 Studies and
technical assistance       0.28        1.11        1.39
C.   Contingencies
Physical, Part A                   0.33        0.86       1.19
Physical, Part B                   0.11       0.29        0.40
Price (Parts A and B)              0.47        1.21       1.68
Total                        5.45       15.00       20.45
Financing Plan:
US$ million         Percentage
IDA Credit                            15.00              73.35
Government                             5.45              26.65
Total                            20.45             100.00
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY1979   1980      1981      1982
-------- US$ thousands --------
Annual                             4,200    8,460    2,160        180
Cumulative                         4,200   12,660   14,820   15,000
Rate of Return:              21 percent, corresponding to a weighted average of
23.5 percent for the road and bridge component and
14 percent for the coastal shipping port component.



- iii -
Staff ADpraisal Report:    Report No. 1903a-HA dated April 28, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Haiti for the equivalent of US$15.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a fifth transport project.
The Government would onlend US$3.3 million of the proceeds of the credit to
Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince, in respect of the coastal shipping
ports component, at an annual interest rate of 1 percent until 1985 and 2 per-
cent thereafter, for a period of 25 years, including 6 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 1243-HA entitled
"Current Economic Pasition and Prospects of Haiti" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 15, 1976. Social and economic data are pre-
sented in Annex I. A Bank Economic Mission which was in Haiti in February
1978 is preparing an Updating Economic Memorandum.
3.        Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere; it is also
included in the U.N. list of least developed nations. GNP per capita in 1976
stood at US$200. An infant mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live
births, an average life expectancy of 50 years, low nutrition and sanitation
standards (malnutrition and gastroenteric diseases account for over half of
the deaths in the country) and an adult illiteracy rate of about 80 percent
characterize the depressed living standards of the population.
4.        The Haitian economy depends heavily on the agricultural sector.
Agriculture provides the economic base for about 77 percent of the population.
During the past 7 years, the sector's share in real GDP (1955 prices) averaged
about 42 percent but its contribution to GDP growth amounted to only about 25
percent. During the 1960s, GDP virtually stagnated while agricultural production
declined slightly. A process of economic growth was initiated in the early 1970's.
During 1970-77 the economy grew at an average annual rate of 4 percent, led by
urban residential construction, public works and manufacturing. The year-to-year
pattern has been rather erratic mostly influenced by fluctuations in agricul-
tural production. The continued vulnerability of agriculture is reflected in
a GDP growth of only 2.6 percent in 1977, when the country experienced a
severe drought, compared to 9.4 percent in 1976, a good agricultural year.
The agricultural sector's weak performance is also reflected in rapidly
increasing food imports. Sustained economic growth and a broadening of its
benefits requires measures to improve the productivity of agriculture. After



-2-
devoting considerable resources to the rehabilitation df.tbd road network--a
prerequisite for agricultural development--the Government has recently
initiated programs to introduce improved grain varieties, rehabilitate coffee
plantations and restore the major irrigation systems.
5.        Since 1972, public investment has increased at an average annual
rate of 29.7 percent in real terms. Moreover, the sectoral composition of
Government outlays has undergone significant changes. Whereas during the
first Five-Year Plan (1971-76) only about 10 percent of total government devel-
opment expenditures was for agriculture, the latter's share in the second
Five-Year Plan (1976-81), on the basis of projects already approved, will be
about 24 percent. Other areas of high priority are transport, education and
health, especially geared to rural areas. The overall orientation of the
1976-81 development program also clearly reflects the Government's objective
to decentralize economic activity in favor of rural areas and provincial
towns. Their share of total development expenditures is likely to increase
from about 50 percent in the recent past to about 70 percent during the
second Five-Year Plan period.
6.        During the period of the first Five-Year Plan, actual development
expenditures were 13 percent below budgeted targets. Taking unplanned infla-
tion into consideration the real shortfall may well have been in the order of
20 percent. Generally speaking, these shortfalls, which varied strongly among
sectors, were due to poor preparation, inadequate organizational structures
and staffing as well as a lack of coordination among different entities
within the Haitian public sector as well as between the Haitian Government
and external donor agencies. The Government is aware of these problems
and has taken steps to improve performance. Institutional strengthening
is one of the second Five-Year Plan's highest priorities, and technical
assistance for project preparation and implementation has been considerably
increased. Furthermore, a Joint Commission for the Implementation of External
Cooperation Programs has been established in order to consider the country's
economic situation and expected technical and financial assistance. The
Commission, for which the Organization of American States (OAS) provides
the secretariat, is composed of senior government officials and of repre-
sentatives of the multilateral and bilateral aid agencies active in Haiti.
The Commission serves to coordinate the efforts of participating agencies,
and the Government has proved to be receptive to its advice.
7.        The provision of local counterpart funds for development projects
and the financing of recurrent expenditures after the completion of these
projects could, in the future, create serious fiscal difficulties. Government
current revenues are of the order of 11 percent of GDP, which is about in line
with other countries at a comparable stage of development. However, the
fiscal system which relies heavily on specific rates has a relatively low
elasticity and is subject to erosion, especially during periods of high
inflationary pressure. The Government recently took some measures to increase
revenues. Among these are the levy of an additional specific coffee export
tax, which is applicable at prices above US$1.00 per kg, adoption of a new
system of taxation of bauxite exports and more effective collection of import



-3-
duties and corporate income taxes. A new income tax law, which became
effective October 1, 1977, increases the taxation of higher incomes, mainly
those of the liberal professions. Finally, a new customs code is expected to
be signed into law shortly. Its application is likely to result in an
additional increase of customs revenues.
8.        There may be some scope for the mobilization of additional resources
through the integration of various special accounts now held at the Central
Bank into the budgetary process. One important step in this direction was the
Government's decision to allocate 50 percent of the profits of the Regie du
Tabac, an autonomous public sector monopoly, to a National Investment Fund.
The Government, with technical assistance from the IMF, is now also undertaking
a comprehensive review of the special accounts which is expected to result in
the adoption of uniform accounting procedures for the entire fiscal system.
9.        During the past five years, Haiti has considerably increased its
investment efforts--from about 11.5 percent of GDP in the early 1970s to
about 17.5 percent during 1975-77. The increase took place almost exclusively
in the public sector. The attainment of this investment volume has depended
heavily on financing from foreign savings. During 1975-77, gross national
savings financed an average 57 percent of gross domestic investment. The
remaining 43 percent was financed through loans on concessionary terms
(18.5 percent), grants (19.0 percent), direct investment (2 percent), and
external credits to the private sector (3.5 percent). Public sector develop-
ment expenditures, which in 1975-1976 accounted for about 44 percent of total
investment and, in addition, comprised outlays for technical assistance, were
financed to about 75 percent through loans and grants from abroad and to about
25 percent from public sector savings and domestic credit. In 1977, net
disbursements from loans increased sharply, and domestic financing from
savings and credit were probably of the order of 15 percent.
10.       In spite of the growing resource gap (from 3.2 percent of GDP in
1970 to 7.8 percent in 1977), Haiti did not experience serious balance-of-
payments problems, largely as the result of an unprecedented inflow of trans-
fers (both to the Government and the private sector) and of official long-term
concessionary capital towards the end of this period. Net reserves of the
banking system reached about US$6.3 million as at the end of September 1977.
Gross reserves amounted to US$26.7 million, equivalent to about one month's
imports of goods and non-factor services.
11.       The rapid increase in net imports (net of imported inputs for the
assembly industries) resulted only partially from higher investment levels
(about 25 percent). The main source of increase was private consumption (about
75 percent) in which food imports with an average annual growth of 20 percent
in real terms, play a very important part. Weak agricultural performance and
substantial rural-urban migration are the factors underlying the increasing
food gap. At the same time, these factors also add to the sluggish development
of (net) exports, 60 percent of which come from agriculture. Thus, the
balance of trade is affected by a major structural weakness, which in the
long run could cause balance-of-payments problems. Agricultural development
programs, now under way, should result within the next few years in increases



-4-
of production mainly relating to foodstuffs for domestic consumption. Some
expansion of export crops is also expected. In addition, measures should be
taken to control non-essential imports; a more effective collection of existing
import duties and/or imposing higher rates would serve three purposes: slow down
the increase in imports, add to Government resources and make the fiscal system
more equitable.
12.       Since there has been relatively little net foreign borrowing other
than on highly concessionary terms, the debt service ratio is relatively low
(about 7.3 percent in 1977).  Nevertheless, the balance of payments is likely
to constitute a constraint to economic development in view of the limited
growth prospects of Haiti's agricultural exports, and because export diversif-
ication through the development of manufacturing and tourism is still at an
early stage. In view of the country's poverty and the dependence of its
balance of payments on world demand for a few commodities, Haiti will continue
to require external assistance on concessionary terms for a long time if it
is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of living of its
population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
13.       The Bank Group has had nine operations in Haiti.  One loan and one
credit, both for highway maintenance and rehabilitation, were made in 1956 and
1962, respectively, and have been fully disbursed. Two credits for highway
projects were made in 1974 and 1975. In 1976, credits were made for a power
project and for a first education project. A credit for a rural development
project was approved in 1977. In the current fiscal year, two credits have
been approved for a provincial towns water supply project and for a second
education project, respectively. The total of credits outstanding is US$78.5
million, of which US$37 million are undisbursed. Annex II contains a
summary statement of the Bank loan and IDA credits as of March 31, 1978
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has not made any invest-
ments in Haiti but is considering a number of projects.
14.       Various multilateral and bilateral development agencies are active
in Haiti. IDB has made loans for rural development, industrial credit, rural
education, water supply in Port-au-Prince and road construction. USAID is
providing assistance for integrated rural development projects, community
development, malaria eradication, maternal-child health and family planning,
modernization of coffee production and marketing, construction of feeder roads
and for highway maintenance. CIDA (Canada) is supporting a rural development
project in the Southern Peninsula and is assisting agricultural and technical
education and the construction of school facilities. It has completed a study
of Haiti's water resource potential both for irrigation and for power produc-
tion. France is financing seed production, education planning and research,
road construction and equipment for provincial airports. The Federal Republic
of Germany is providing technical and financial assistance for a regional



-5-
development project in the Gonaives Plain, and, together with France, is
providing technical assistance for the execution of the IDA-financed rural
development project in the Northern Plain.
15.       UNDP has an active program in Haiti:  UNDP/FA0 have ongoing programs
for agricultural education, soil conservation and animal production. UNDP/
UNESCO are assisting education planning, radio, non-formal, primary and agri-
cultural education. UNDP/ILO assistance is being provided for vocational
education and UNDP/UNESCO programs are assisting nutrition, radio, and teacher-
education and the purchase of radios.
Table 1: GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS TO HAITI, 1966-77
IDA        IDB        Bilateral        Total
------------- US$ million ----------------
Agriculture                       10.0        8.4          58.1            76.5
Industry                             -        4.5           3.3             7.8
Transportation                    30.0       64.7          30.5           125.2
Education                         15.5       10.9           6.6            33.0
Water and Sewerage                 6.6         7.4            -            14.0
Power                             16.0          -           5.5            21.5
Health                               -        6.3          26.5            32.8
Other /                              -          -          47.8            47.8
Total                       78.1       102.2         178.3 /I        358.6 2
/L   Including general budgetary support.
/2   Of which $113.3 million estimated to be in grants.
16.       Recent and prospective IDA operations take into account the ongoing
and planned roles of other official lending agencies. In line with the
Government's Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1976-81) and with
the priorities of Haiti's perceived needs, current and planned IDA operations
are meant to support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in
transportation and power; to expand educational opportunities and upgrade
technical skills and to promote regional development both in rural areas (as
in the Rural Development Project in the Northern Plain) and in provincial
towns, as in the water supply project. The Fifth Transport Project proposed
for IDA financing is in line with the recommendations of the National Transport
Study (NTS) for which the Bank was Executing Agency. The study emphasized the
rehabilitation of secondary roads and the development of coastal shipping.
17.       The Bank was also Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed power study
which was completed recently. The study estimates energy supply/demand balances
and recommends investment priorities, taking into account the possibility of
using Haiti's deposits of lignite as fuel for thermal plants as well as the
country's hydropower potential determined on the basis of the CIDA-financed
survey mentioned in paragraph 14. A second power project suitable for IDA



-6-
financing has been identified as a result of the study and is scheduled
for appraisal in June 1978. The ongoing IDA-financed rural development
project provides for the preparation of another project which would extend the
scope of the Regional Development Agency's programs throughout the Northern
Plain.
18.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's public external debt outstanding
and disbursed amounted to 24.7 percent as at September 30, 1977. The Bank
Group's share of external public debt service in 1972 was about 0.2 percent.
Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to about 26 percent
by 1980, raising its share of external public debt service to about 5 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
Background
19.       Haiti's insular situation, rugged mountainous terrain, long coastline,
the dispersion of its agricultural production and the dominance of one city,
Port-au-Prince, are of particular significance to its transpori sector. Haiti
is a relatively small country, with an area of about 27,700 km and a popu-
lation of about 4.7 million, of which about 77 percent is rural. Only about
one-third of the land is cultivated (the balance is 18 percent pasture,
9 percent forested and 39 percent uncultivated) and the agricultural areas,
which support 77 percent of the population, are widely dispersed. The size
distribution of urban centers is highly unbalanced; in addition to the capital
city of Port-au-Prince which has a population of over 600,000, there are seven
provincial centers ranging in size from 12,000 to 50,000, and 61 towns with
populations of 2,000 to 9,000, many of them poorly served by the present
transport system.
20.       Internal transport (about 700,000 tons in 1975) moves primarily
by road and is largely concentrated on a few recently reconstructed primary
roads which form the backbone of the transport system. Besides roads, coastal
shipping accounts for 18 percent of domestic freight tonnage and 10 percent
of domestic passenger movements. Domestic air travel is light, primarily
serving tourists and a limited local market of Government officials and
businessmen. Haiti's road network deteriorated drastically during the 1960's,
because road maintenance was totally neglected; as a result, provincial
centers became isolated from one another and from the capital. Since 1971,
the Government has recognized the importance of transport and has undertaken
the reconstruction of the basic road network.
Sectoral Development Priorities and Planning
21.       The first Five-Year National Development Plan (1972-76) reflected
the priority attributed to the rehabilitation of transport infrastructure as
a prerequisite for agricultural development. Since 1972, the transport sector
has benefited from substantial assistance from multinational and bilateral



-7-
lending agencies mostly for reconstruction of the road network and the improve-
ment of road maintenance. IDA lent a total of US$30.0 million through two
Credits (Cr. 478-HA, 1974 and Cr. 556-HA, 1975) for the reconstruction of
the Northern Road connecting the capital to Cap Haitien (250 km), Haiti's
second city. Haiti's other main trunk road, the Southern Road (160 km), link-
ing Port-au-Prince to Les Cayes, is being rebuilt with IDB financing amounting
to US$52.6 million. The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral
Assistance, FAC) has provided about US$7 million for the construction of the
40 km spur between the Southern Road and the regional capital of Jacmel. In
1973, USAID started its support for road maintenance through financing of
equipment, technical assistance and training in road maintenance. More
recently, USAID has supported a feeder road construction program. USAID
assistance for transportation since 1973 totals about US$21 million. IDB has
also provided financing to expand the international port of Port-au-Prince
(two loans; US$10 million in 1972 and US$7.5 million in 1976) and FAC has
equipped small domestic airports with navigational aids. Except for construc-
tion of the Southern Road, all these projects have been completed or are
reaching completion. The Government organizes twice-yearly meetings to
coordinate assistance to the transport sector. These meetings have been
useful in informing interested agencies of programs, progress and problems in
the sector.
22.       While the urgent need to reconstruct the main trunk roads was clear
and could be undertaken without the benefit of a full sectoral plan, planning
was needed to determine the relative priority of subsequent investments. To
improve institutional support of the transport sector, two important measures
were agreed in connection with the Third Highway Project: creation in 1975 of
the Service Autonome des Transports (SAT), the national transport planning
agency, within the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(TPTC); and the execution of the NTS to provide the sectoral input for the
second five-year development plan (1976-1981). The NTS was financed by a UNDP
grant of US$600,000, for which the Bank was executing agency, and was carried
out between 1975 and 1977.
23.       The NTS comprised an analysis of future transport demand and recom-
mended a transport policy well adapted to the country's potential, giving the
highest priority to maintenance and rehabilitation of existing infrastructure
and to complementary transport investments, mostly roads, in support of
integrated agricultural development programs. The NTS also recognized the
potential of coastal shipping and explored two integrated transport strategies:
(i) emphasis on road improvements with no government support for coastal
shipping; and (ii) emphasis on coastal shipping improvements, combined with
improved maintenance and selected upgrading and rehabilitation of existing
roads. It recommended the second strategy as the least cost alternative. The
Government has generally accepted the recommendations of the NTS and adopted
them as the basis for the transport component of the current Development Plan
(1976-1981).
24.       Further measures, however, would be necessary to strengthen the
planning framework so as to pursue long-term objectives such as the develop-
ment of coastal shipping and the strengthening of road maintenance. Con-
sequently, the Government agreed to: (a) prepare and adopt, after consultation
with the Association, an updated transport investment program for the next
five-year period, and (b) update such program annually. (Section 4.03 of the
draft Credit Agreement.)



-8-
Institutional Framework
25.       The National Development Planning Council (CONADEP) plays a central
role in planning; it defines national development strategy and reviews, con-
solidates and coordinates the proposals of the ministries and agencies. SAT
has, since late 1975, provided the basis to develop sectoral planning capacity
in a continuous and systematic manner. The outline of SAT's work program in
the field of transport planning for the 1978-1980 period was reviewed and
agreed during negotiations; such a work program would include, in particular
the revision of, and periodic updating of the Government's transport investment
program and analysis of related funding requirements; the systematic collection
of statistical information on the operations of the transport system; and the
economic and financial assessment of investment proposals with estimated costs
above US$1 million (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
26.       While TPTC plays a central role in the operation of the transport
sector, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the National Bank of the
Republic of Haiti (BNRH) and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are also
closely involved. The Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs, assisted by
the Director of the National Bank, is responsible for monitoring port develop-
ment and operations, for the custom services and for the collection of
transport taxes. In addition to these Ministries, three autonomous agencies
have been formed in response to particular needs, specifically (a) the
Port-au-Prince Port Administration (APP) responsible for international ports;
(b) the International Airport Authority (AAIPP) responsible for airport
operation in Port-au-Prince, and (c) the National Road Maintenance Service
(SEPRRN).
27.       TPTC is responsible for highway planning and design (SAT), highway
construction (the construction service) and highway maintenance, through
SEPRRN which is under the authority of the Minister, in addition to other
important responsibilities for urban works and public utilities. In the early
1970's, the Government had to formulate the 1972-76 Development-Plan with
inadequate institutional capacity in TPTC, the most important of the technical
ministries. The establishment of autonomous agencies and specialized services
offered a way to escape the limitations of the existing TPTC departments and
was also well suited to meet the requirements of external development agencies
concerning the implementation and operations of specific projects. The
resulting institutional framework, however, is unwieldy and suffers from a
number of deficiencies. Duplication and gaps exist in important aspects;
internal and external liaison between agencies and services functions poorly
and routine coordination depends too often on direct action by the Ministers
themselves. The matter has been discussed with the Government, which recognizes
that the present phase would have to be followed by some reorganization.
However, most of the new agencies and services are still in a formative stage
and should be allowed to gain additional strength before a reorganization
is undertaken. This point would be reviewed with the Government during
project implementation in coordination with other lending agencies.
Financing
28.       The financial situation of the transport sector is generally sound.
Revenues currently collected from road user charges are adequate to cover the
operation and maintenance of road transport infrastructure and facilities,



-9-
as well as about 20 percent of the investment cost.   International port charges
cover terminal operating, maintenance and debt service; and international airport
charges at international terminals cover operations and-maintenance. Local
funds for externally financed development projects are provided through a
matching fund, to which 5 percent of general revenues are channeled, and by
special allocations. These mechanisms have generally ensured adequate local
financing.
29.       The construction or reconstruction of basic infrastructure under-
taken since 1972 has required a relatively high level of investment in the
transport sector. Expenditures for large transport projects have, over the
1974-1977 period, averaged about US$30 million equivalent annually, accounting
for 24 percent to 47 percent of development outlays. About 75 percent of
transport sector investment has been financed externally. The current Develop-
ment Plan (1976-1981) projects a diminishing level of capital expenditures for
the transport sector, tapering off to about US$10 million equivalent per year.
This reflects the transition from the 1972-1977 phase of reconstruction to a
phase of improved maintenance and gradual upgrading while allowing a higher
level of investment for agriculture, social services and other sectors.
The Highway Network
30.       The inter-city road network totals close to 3,725 km of motorable
roads, of which about 750 km are paved (or currently being paved); 1,550 km
are surfaced with natural gravel; and the balance are earth tracks, mostly
less than 4.5 m wide. The generally poor condition of unpaved roads still
reflects the total lack of maintenance through the 1960's and in the early
1970's. Since 1974, government efforts in road rehabilitation and expanded
maintenance services have checked road deterioration and restored a minimum
level of serviceability on much of the primary network. Traffic on some
important roads has, however, been interrupted by bridge failures. Haiti
has a number of aging steel bridges built more than 50 years ago. Three
major bridges have collapsed during the past five years; others are seriously
damaged or in precarious condition. Paved fords on lightly traveled roads are
also often in need of substantial repair.
Road Traffic
31.       Port-au-Prince is the hub of the road transport system and traffic
flows are largely concentrated on a few main roads. Almost half of the
network carries less than 10 vehicles per day while substantial tonnages are
carried by human portage and pack animals, mostly along country trails. In
1977, the motor vehicle fleet numbered about 24,300 units, of which slightly
less than 90 percent were registered in Port-au-Prince. The fleet includes
about 15 percent cargo trucks, 22 percent public passenger vehicles and
63 percent cars and jeeps. Between 1970 and 1975, expansion of the fleet
averaged about 10 percent p.a. Projected long-term traffic growth ranges
between 4 percent and 8 percent per year for goods, about 8 percent for
public passenger transport and about 11 percent for private vehicles. The
road transport industry is subject to minimum regulation. Inter-urban tariffs
for passengers and freight are competitive. The capacity of the industry
is generally adequate although some areas of the country are still not well
served because of the poor condition of the road network.



- 10 -
Highway Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
32.       The SAT, within TPTC, performs the dual role of highway planning
and engineering office and has recently started to supervise engineering
design services by consultants. Engineering for major road projects has been
prepared by foreign consultants. Over the last few years, small domestic
firms have begun to be organized by foreign-trained Haitian engineers who are
beginning to participate in the preparation of projects. It is expected that
in the future, most of the routine engineering work will be handled by domestic
firms in association with foreign firms.
33.       The need to foster the development of a competitive local road
construction industry was recognized at the time of appraisal of the Third
Highway Project in 1974, and a study of local contractor capability was
included in the NTS. The NTS recommended increased use of local construction
capability and emphasized the need for a parallel development of TPTC capacity
to manage and administer local contracting and consulting services. On the
basis of the NTS's recommendations, the Government is initiating, with
assistance from USAID, a program for the rehabilitation of agricultural roads.
About 600 km will be reconstructed by government construction brigades and
another 300 km by local contractors. The program envisages leasing of equip-
ment to contractors and provides for the development of labor-intensive methods
of construction for feeder and penetration roads.
34.       Since 1972 the Government has undertaken to strengthen highway
maintenance. SEPRRN, the semi-autonomous highway maintenance agency estab-
lished in 1972, has benefitted from USAID assistance (about US$5 million) over
the 1974-1977 period to build up its equipment fleet and workshops. In 1975,
SEPRRN adopted a Five-Year Maintenance Program (1975-1980) which is still
in effect and has been supported by adequate budgetary allocations. The major
bottleneck to adequate road maintenance is not so much lack of physical
resources and funds but the insufficient number of trained staff in SEPRRN
which, over the next five years, should at least double its work force and
upgrade it through training. The Government plans to pursue the strengthening
and expansion of SEPRRN and has obtained further support from USAID
(US$8.6 million, in November 1977) for advisory services and equipment, to
support the planned expansion of maintenance activities over the remaining
three years of the Five-Year Program.
35.       Although IDA is not providing direct support for road maintenance in
view of USAID's assistance for maintenance, IDA has consistently stressed the
need to improve maintenance capacity and has informed the Government that
improvement in road maintenance was a prerequisite for continued IDA support
to the road rehabilitation program. The adoption of the Five-Year Maintenance
Program met one of the requirements of Credit 556-HA. The scope of the second
USAID program is generally adequate but should be expanded in two important
aspects: (a) specific roads to be brought under full maintenance each year
should be defined and (b) the training component should be strengthened through
the establishment of a separate training unit in SEPRRN. Measures to deal with
these points have been discussed with the Government and USAID and were
confirmed during negotiations (Section 4.04 (b) and (c) of the draft Credit
Agreement). The scope and schedule of the Government's program for enforcement



- 11 -
of vehicle weight regulations, in compliance with the provisions of Credits
478-HA and 556-HA, was also discussed and confirmed (Section 4.05 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Experience with Previous Projects
36.       The Third and Fourth Highway Projects have provided for the recon-
struction of the Northern Road from Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien (250 km).
In addition, the projects financed pre-investment studies for preparation of
the road and port component of the proposed project. The Third and Fourth
Highway Projects have been substantially completed. Because bids were higher
than originally estimated, the scope of the Third Project was, with the
authorization of the Executive Directors, reduced from 150 km to 80 km in
November 1974. The cost of the Third Project, as revised, and of the Fourth
Project, have been within the estimates. The Closing Date of Cr. 478 was
postponed to allow completion of road signs and minor additional improvements.
Coastal Shipping System
37.       Waterborne transport has traditionally played an important role i
Haiti. Haiti has a shoreline of 1,530 km or more than 1 km for every 20 km
of land area, with numerous coastal population centers. After the cessation
of international shipping directly to and from some of the smaller ports in
the 1950's, and the deterioration of the existing road system in the 1960's,
the importance of domestic coastal shipping as an internal transport mode
increased. There are at present some 580 sailing ships ranging in size from
under 10 tons to over 60 tons capacity, and about 30 motorships with an
average capacity of 123 tons. Most of the vessels are individually owned and
many are owner-operated.
38.       Operating conditions for the coastal shipping fleet are extremely
poor. Major problem areas for the industry are: (a) the inadequacy of
existing ports, even for small vessels; (b) unsafe condition of most of the
fleet due to primitive construction methods and the lack of maintenance and
repair facilities; (c) inability to obtain insurance coverage for vessels
and cargo, and (d) the absence of aids to navigation and of assistance to
vessels in distress. There has been little government support for coastal
shipping. Taking into account the results of a study on the further develop-
ment of coastal shipping, the Government would make arrangements satis-
factory to the Association for the regulation of, and provision of support
services to, the merchant marine (Section 4.06 (a) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
39.       APP was created in 1973 to operate the international harbor facil-
ities at Port-au-Prince. It functions under the supervision of the Ministry
of Finance. The largest of the coastal shipping ports is also at Port-au-
Prince, where APP built a wooden pier for coastal shipping services in 1973;
this facility, highly congested in peak traffic, is the hub of the present
coastal shipping system. There are 12 other coastal shipping ports with
significant terminal facilities and 37 anchorages where cargo is handled over
the beach or by small lighters.



- 12 -
40.       The NTS concluded that projected volumes of traffic would justify
investment in port improvements and in modernization of the fleet. Recommen-
dations for coastal shipping foresee a fleet of locally constructed motorized
vessels, somewhat larger and better built than at present, operating on fixed
routes and schedules, with regular maintenance, repairs and insurance. Vessels
of 100- to 200-ton capacity are envisaged to carry both freight and passengers
on major routes. However, traditional sailboat coastal shipping would continue
to play an important role as a feeder service and for certain commodities
(e.g. salt). To accommodate such coastal shipping traffic, the NTS proposed
improvement of port facilities at 19 coastal locations.
Coastal Shipping Traffic
41.       The annual total volume of cargo handled by coastal shipping is a
relatively modest 125,000 tons, of which 85,000 tons have Port-au-Prince as
origin or destination. The largest share of passengers and cargo is carried
by motor vessels, which have a cost advantage over sailing ships in spite of
low labor costs in Haiti. Coastal traffic as reflected in the tonnages
handled in the hub of the system, Port-au-Prince, has increased by an average
of 1.6 percent per year over the past 15 years. This traffic falls into two
categories: (a) the movement of goods and passengers to or from parts of
Haiti that are inaccessible by road; and (b) the movement of relatively
low-value, non-perishable commodities, where sea transport is cheaper than
road service. Examples of the first category are shipments to and from
Jeremie, where cargo traffic has grown 6 percent annually in the past few
years, and the two islands, La Tortue and Gonave. An example of the second
category is Port-de-Paix traffic in low-value commodities, such as salt, to
and from Port-au-Prince or Cap Haitien.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Fifth Transport Project"
(No. 1903a-HA dated April 21, 1978) is being distributed separately. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report. A Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is appended at Annex III. The project was identified by
an IDA mission in December 1975 and subsequently prepared by the Government
and consultants, with the assistance of IDA, between March and September 1977.
The project was appraised in October/November 1977, followed by a post-appraisal
mission in February 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 4
to 12, 1978. The Haitian Delegation was led by the Minister of Finance and
Economic Affairs.
Objectives and General Description
43.       The Government's development strategy for transport recognizes the
need to optimize investments through a proper balance between road transport
and coastal shipping, and between maintenance and new construction. The
strategy also aims at overcoming the isolation of outlying areas and extending
the benefits of economic development to regional centers. The proposed project



- 13 -
would support these objectives. It would: (i) improve secondary roads
linking areas of agricultural activity with regional centers; (ii) reconstruct
major bridges that serve as gateways to the northwest and northeast of the
country, and (iii) modernize three coastal ports, with related institutional
measures, as an initial step to develop more fully the potential of coastal
shipping.
44.       The project would have two main components:
The road and bridge component would include: (i) upgrading, includ-
ing paving, of 54 km of priority roads around Cap-Haitien serving the Northern
Plain; (ii) construction of a new bridge and its approaches to replace the
Hyppolite Bridge which collapsed recently; (iii) construction of a new bridge
and approaches to replace the severely deteriorated Trois Rivieres Bridge;
(iv) upgrading, to all-weather standard, of the 12.8 km agricultural access
road linking Marche Leon with the coastal shipping port of Jeremie in the
Southern peninsula, and (v) preinvestment studies to prepare a countrywide
bridge reconstruction and rehabilitation program and other priority projects.
The coastal shipping port component would include: (i) improvement
of three coastal shipping ports for motorized and sailing vessels at Port-au-
Prince (five berths at a new site), Jeremie (four berths) and Port-de-Paix
(two berths); (ii) management advisory services to APN; (iii) a study of the
further development of coastal shipping, and (iv) preinvestment studies for
improvement of the Cap Haitien port.
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project (See Project Summary) is estimated
at about US$20.5 million (the project is tax-exempt), of which about US$15.0
million, representing the foreign exchange component, would be financed by the
proposed credit; the balance would be financed by the Government. Civil works
represent 83 percent of the estimated total cost, construction supervision
7 percent and preinvestment studies and final design the remaining 10 percent.
The first phase of the coastal shipping studies (US$160,000 not included in
project costs) is proposed to be financed by a UNDP grant, with the Bank
acting as executing agency. Implementation of the project is expected to take
about three years (1978-1981). Retroactive financing, of up to US$200,000, is
proposed for advance contracting of consulting services and for final
engineering design of the port component, starting in March 1978.
46.       A contingency allowance of 10 percent was used for all road and
bridge civil works except in the case of the Hyppolite bridge, for which
15 percent was adopted because final engineering design has not yet been
completed. A 15 percent contingency allowance was used for all port civil
works, for the same reason. Contingencies for price escalation were based
on 9 percent annual increases through 1978 and 8 percent annually thereafter,
both for local and foreign exchange costs. Based on the project implemen-
tation schedule, estimated price escalation throughout the implementation
period amounts to 12 percent of construction costs.



- 14 -
Consulting Services
47.       A total of 485 man/months of consulting services are included in
the project for detailed engineering and construction supervision, for manage-
ment assistance to APN for studies to prepare a bridge rehabilitation and
replacement program and for the development of future coastal shipping. It is
estimated that about 40 percent of the professional services may be provided
by Haitians. Costs per man/month average US$2,200 for Haitian engineers and
US$6,900 for foreign experts. These costs are consistent with current rates
for similar services in other countries.
Disbursements
48.       Disbursements of the credit would be made between September 1978
and September 1981, based on 72 percent of total expenditures for civil
works, and 80 percent of total expenditures for consulting services.
Execution and Procurement
49.       TPTC would be responsible for the road and bridge component and
the National Port Authority, (APN) the successor to APP, for the coastal
shipping port component.
50.       Civil works construction for roads, bridges and coastal shipping
ports would be awarded through international competitive bidding after pre-
qualification of firms in accordance with Bank/IDA Procurement Guidelines.
For bidding purposes, the road and bridge works would be divided into four
lots. There would be a single contract for all three ports. Local bidders
would be allowed a preference margin of 7.5 percent on bid evaluation. The
smaller and simpler lots of road construction correspond to the estimated
capacity of the best local contracting firms. The other lots would offer
opportunities for sub-contracting.
51.       TPTC and APN intend to use the consultants who prepared the engineer-
ing designs for construction supervision in both road and port civil works.
APN also intends to retain the consultants who prepared the financial/organi-
zational study of the ports component for the management advisory services.
These arrangements would be acceptable to the Association. Preinvestment
studies would be carried out by consultants acceptable to the Association
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Financing Plan for Coastal Shipping Ports
52.       APN is an efficient organization.  Its financial position is satis-
factory and revenues generated from international port terminals cover the
full cost of operations and debt service charges and generate a yearly surplus.
An organization and financial study undertaken by consultants provided back-
ground on APN's present and prospective financial position, recommendations on
the structure and level of user charges for the coastal shipping ports, and a



- 15 -
basis for the financing plan and projections prepared during appraisal. The
proposed financing plan and tariff policy for improvement of the coastal
shipping ports reflects the need to strike a balance between two objectives:
(a) to enable APN to operate the coastal shipping ports which have so far
incurred losses, without jeopardizing APN's financial viability; and
(b) to establish port tariffs for project ports that would be within users'
ability to pay, encourage waterborne coastal traffic, and facilitate
future development of additional ports in the system.
53.       APN's proposed tariff for coastal shipping ports, reflecting the
above objectives, is based on recovery of about 80 percent of the direct
financial benefits accruing to port users. A comparison of projected revenues
with operating and capital expenditures shows that revenues generated by
the proposed rates would more than cover working costs of the coastal shipping
ports from the start of operations, and, by 1985, as traffic gradually
increases, would reach a level at which full depreciation costs will also be
covered. The terms and conditions on which capital funds would be made avail-
able to APN were adjusted to ensure that APN's borrowing for the coastal
shipping ports could be serviced from new revenues from these ports. It is an
objective of the financing terms of the sub-loan to APN, and of related
operating and working ratios, to overcome deficits in the pilot project ports
and to allow APN to assume personnel and operating costs that are presently
borne by the Government.
54.       The Government would enter into a separate agreement with APN,
providing for on-lending of US$3.3 million equivalent from the proposed Credit
and for an equity contribution of US51.1 million (Section 3.02 of the draft
Credit Agreement).  Government would on-lend the IDA funds for a 25-year term,
including six years of grace, at an interest rate of 1 percent per annum
between 1978-1985 and 2 percent thereafter.  The timing of the increase in
interest rate to 2 percent coincides with the physical expansion of the
coastal shipping ports system following the planned development studies,
expected improvements in the technology of coastal shipping and a projected
increase in coastal shipping port tariffs.
Administration of Coastal Shipping Ports
55.       Agreement was reached with APN regarding the organization of a
Coastal Ports Service to administer the project ports and submission to the
Association, by the end of September 1978, of proposals for the organization
of the Service (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The Government
agreed not to expand the responsibility of APN to coastal ports other than
those included in the pilot project without prior consultation with the
Association (Section 4.06(g) of the draft Credit Agreement). APN would
establish, for each of the project ports, accounting and cost accounting
procedures (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). APN would consult
with the Association before adopting its annual budgets and would not increase
its administrative expenditures or investments for coastal shipping ports by
more than 10 percent without prior consultation with the Association (Section
4.05 of the draft Project Agreement). Coastal shipping port tariffs would be



- 16 -
set at levels that would result in improvements of the working ratio from 86
in 1980 to 61 after 1985, and in the operating ratio, from 131 in 1980 to 92
after 1985 (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). APN's assets in use
would be revalued in 1980 and every three years thereafter (Section 4.03 of
the draft Project Agreement). IDB's loan agreement for the international
facilities at Port-au-Prince includes financial covenants limiting APN's debt
and investments, requiring that tariffs for the international port be suffi-
cient to earn a 6 percent rate of return on assets and allowing APN to retain
the port charges it collects. In line with these arrangements, the Government
agreed that APN would retain port charges that it collects, and APN agreed to
a debt limitation of US$1 million and to a 6 percent rate of return on assets
(Section 4.06(e) of the draft Credit Agreement and Sections 4.07 and 4.08 of
the draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Aspects
56.       The construction included under the road and bridge component is
not expected to have an adverse impact on the population centers or areas
served by project roads. Similarly, construction for the port component is
not expected to have any negative ecological impact; nor is operation of the
ports likely to have any adverse effect on Haiti's relatively unpolluted
coastal waters, as the cargo that is transported is not of a polluting nature.
Benefits and Risks
57.       About 500,000 small and medium farmers and rural inhabitants live in
the area of influence of the road and bridge component, where agriculture is
the leading economic activity.  A number of agricultural development programs
already initiated in the Northern Plain (population 400,000) would benefit
from the project.  Among these is the ongoing IDA-financed Rural Development
Project (Credit 675-HA, of January 1977), which would, over the 1978-1984
period, increase production of sugar cane, vegetables, milk and meat. The
Caldos Sugar Company, near Limonade, has recently expanded its capacity to
refine sugar cane from about 200,000 tons to 850,000 tons annually. Under
that part of the Government's coffee rehabilitation program located around
Dondon (between Grande Riviere du Nord and St. Raphael), annual coffee exports
from the region would increase from 350,000 sacks to 500,000 sacks in ten
years. These programs could be adversely affected by transportation bottle-
necks. The collapse of the Hyppolite bridge has disrupted communications
between the Northern Plain and Cap Haitien, the regional capital.  Collapse of
the badly deteriorated Trois Rivieres Bridge would virtually cut off 175,000
inhabitants, who are still affected by the aftermath of recent droughts and
depend on the road for basic supplies. The shortest alternate detour involves
an added travel distance of about 40 km on some very bad roads. In the
Southern Peninsula, the improvement of the road to Marche Leon, a market town
serving the 30,000 inhabitants of the area, will provide all-weather access to
the rich valleys of La Voldrouge and Des Roseaux.
58.       The detailed economic evaluation of the road and bridge component
is based on an analysis of quantifiable benefits including reduced vehicle
operating costs and travel time, reduction in road closures and savings in
road maintenance costs. The time saving of road users was estimated separately.
All costs and benefits considered in the economic analysis are net of taxes.



- 1 7 -
59.       The port component of the project would affect a large share of the
coastal shipping industry since improvements would be made to the two most
important ports of the system: Port-au-Prince and Jeremie. The competitive
position of coastal shipping would be strengthened, and the two relatively
isolated areas of Jeremie and Port-de-Paix would be better integrated. This
would be achieved with a much lower level of investment than that required to
provide a corresponding level of service through road improvement. The quanti-
fied evaluation is based on the difference in transport costs with and without
the project: savings in cargo handling cost; improved protection to ships and
cargo; and improved passenger handling; reduced transit time for cargo (Jeremie),
reduced road distance to city center (Port-au-Prince); and reduced transport
cost compared to existing trucking over poor roads (Port-de-Paix). The major
part of the port investment is for wharf construction and associated dredging
which will allow more efficient use of existing larger and proposed more
modern ships suitable for coastal services in Haiti.
60.       A significant advantage of the coastal shipping port component of
the project that is difficult to quantify is its role as an intermediate
technology transport solution. Although part of the quantified benefits
relates to more efficient use of existing and new motorized vessels, the major
part is for improved cargo handling and ship protection, which is equally
essential for the still important traffic by sailing ships. The continuation
of such services, which are helped by favorable wind conditions and low labor
costs, depends on whether improved coastal shipping can retain and develop its
market share of transport.
61.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is 21 percent.
The rate of return for the road and bridge component, the cost of which is
US$14.7 million, is 23 percent. The rate of return for the coastal shipping
pilot ports component, the cost of which is US$3.8 million, is 14 percent.
Because road transport services in Haiti are competitive, reduction in
vehicle operating costs would be passed on to rural producers and consumers
served by the project roads and bridges. Decreased transport costs and
improved reliability of coastal shipping would directly benefit low-income
producers and small traders.
62.       The road and bridge component does not present any special risks.
All the road sections and bridges have been engineered, with the exception of
the Hyppolite Bridge. The latter is quite similar in span and type to other
major bridges recently built in Haiti. The only difference in cost would
arise from variations in foundation design; the probable resulting variation
in total cost is expected to be less than 5 percent. Traffic forecasts on the
Northern roads are based on normal growth and planned development of agricul-
tural production in ongoing rural development programs. The traffic projec-
tion for the short road to Marche Leon, near Jeremie in the South, is affected
by a higher degree of uncertainty since there are, at present, no specific
programs to support agricultural development of the area. The area is, however,
populated and endowed with good agricultural potential.
63.       For the coastal shipping ports, the risks are also reasonable.  The
preliminary engineering carried out for the technical-economic studies is in
sufficient detail to preclude large cost overruns. The proposed tariff policy



- 18 -
has been designed to provide sufficient inducement to ship owners to encourage
use of the new facilities. Project traffic estimates are conservative in
the sense that they do not consider the full potential growth which might
come from further improvement, triggered by the project, in particular the
modernization of the fleet and upgrading in the quality of services. Al-
though considered a first "pilot" step in the full development of coastal
shipping, this component of the project has been evaluated on its own merits.
Adequate attention has been paid to preserving the financial and institutional
integrity of APN in expanding its responsibility for coastal shipping ports:
in view of APN's experience, this added responsibility is not expected to
create any special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
the National Port Authority (APN) and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
65.       In addition to the features of the draft Credit and Project Agree-
ments referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, a special
condition of effectiveness would be that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and APN had been signed.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 4, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
HAITI      .. . - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM21                -------------------------
_________ _____                                HAITI                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL       27.8                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      14.7                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE          CAMEROON       HONDURAS       IVORY COAST**
GNP.PER CAPITA fUSSI                   100 0*    120.0*   200.0*              210.0*      250.0*      350.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
POPULATION fMID-YR. MILLIONI           3.6       4.2        4.7  .            6.8         2.5         5.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                     131.0     153.0     168.0               14.0        22.0       16.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO      303.0     306.0     319.0               44.0        89.0       32.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE f/THOU. AV)        39.9      37.6       35.8 a            42.1        51.5       46.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE f/THOU.AV)         21.8      17.8       16.37a            23.9        19.1       23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOUI.   200.a          ..    149.1                    -*
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      43.2      47.7      500/a              41.0        49.4       41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..       3.0        2.5                2.7        3.4         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%i
TOTAL                                1.6       1.6        1.6/b              1.8        2.7/a       3.4/a
URBAN                                2.6       3.8        4.0               6.1                     8.77b
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)         15.0      18.7      23.1               20.5          ..       28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42.0      41.5      41.3               43.0 4- .1             42.5
15 TO 64 YEARS                      54.9      54.0      54.7               54.0       49.2        54.8
65 YEARS ANO OVER                    3.1       4.5       4.0                3.0         2.7        2.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8       0.9       0.8                0.9         1.0        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.81k    0.8/a        *-               1.2         1.5/b      0.9/c
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)          ..        .      .            .           .      20.7
USERS t% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE.(THOUSANO)        2100.0/C  2300.0/b       ..             2800.0      700.0/C   2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE f%)        83.0      77.0                         a2.0       62.0 T      82.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           ..        ..         ..                ..         8.0
INCOME DISTBIBUTION
e OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..                 ..       2B.0/d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..                ..        60.67.
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..         ..                ..         2. 57
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             .-        ..         ..                ..         B.4.
DISTPIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____ _________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                 ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS          ..        ..         ..                 ..
HEALTH ANO.NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10600.0   13210.0    8510.0            25960.0      3710.0/d 15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      10310.0    7460.0    5550.0             2470.0      9120.0     2830.0 /d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         1790.0    1370.0         ..             480.0       570.0     1150.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (Y OF REOUIREMENTS)        81.0      e7.0       90.0              9fi.0       99.0      108.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             40.0      39.0       39.0              59.0        58.0       60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..      18.0         .               23.0/a      25.0        18.0 /e
DEATH RATE (/THOUI AGES 1-4           27.0      33.0         ..                 .        10.0
EDUCATION
ADJLSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      46.0        ..      70.0              100.0          ..       76.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     4.0        ..        8.0               9.0        12.0        11.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)            13.0      13.0       13.0               14.0/b     12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    21.0      19.0        8.0              23.0        18.0        7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)               10.0      20.0                          12.0         ..        20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                ..         ..        ..                  .
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 1Xl                       ..         ..      96.1                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY.
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..       2.9                ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         5.0       17.0       20.0              36.0       57.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          2.0       3.0         3.2               6.0        5.0        10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          25.0      28.0       34.0              201.0      127.0        95.0
NEWSPRINT.(KG/YR PER CAP).             0.1    . 0.2         0.2                            1.1        0.2
SEE----------NOTES-------------AND---------DEFINITIONS_____-------____.___------ON-------REVERSE--------------
SEE NOtES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-20-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unes  otews   oted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 ad 1976.
* GNP Per capita data are based on World Bank methodology (1974-76 basis).
00The Ivory Coast baa been selected as an objective country for Haiti minces both countries have a s.imilar cultural backgroun.d and the Ivory Coast
has succee ded in achieving a high rats of ecn ogrowth.
HAITI            1960    /   1962;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economically active population;    /0  Econemically active
population.
1970    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economically ective population;                 /b  icononically active population.
MOST RECENT ESITMATE:    /.  Haitin Institute of Statistics data for crude birth and death rates and for life enpectancy at birth
are 36.6, 14.1 and 52.2, respectively;    lb  1976-76 population growth rate is l.g percent.
CAMEROON         1970    /   1964-66;       /b  13 years for East Cameroon.
HONTiORAS        1970    /aLargely due to emigration of El Salvadoreans resident in Nonduras Population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural
increase ;    lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 10 yearn and over;    Ic  Labor force age
10 years and over;    I'd  1g67-6g, per capita income;    /e  Registered, not all practicing in the count-ry.
IVORY COAST      1970    /a ue to immigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase;                    lb  1961-70;    /c  Ratio of
Population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /d  Government only, including midwiven;    /e  14-66.
Ell, March 11, 1976
SDZfNITIOlU OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thcu                                                                                         ,Lnuaio   a   ursina parso - Population divided by -ober og practicig
Tonal  T-Ttal surface area c nprising land area'and inland waters.                             mi   n   asl  graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nuss,oad
Aseic.- Moat recen.t estimate of agricultural ares used tamporarly or peem-                    ameilisry parsonnal with training or enperisece.
sanetly for crps, psecures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fellow.                     Poeulation per hospital bed - Population divided by nmaser of hosPital beds
aveilabla in public and private general and spacialiced hospital and
GNP ear caPita (0s0) - IMP par capita estimates at current  arhat prices,                      rehabilitation c           -t1a;eid.a onuring homes end establialaents  for
ca.leslted by sam  conerion athd as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                       custodial ad preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 date.                                                                  Pasr c.Pit. aupply of calories it of racuiramenta) - Computed frin energy
equivalent of net food supplies eveilable in c..-try par capita par day;
Populetion and vital  tataiatic.                                                               available sapplies comprisa dnsnstic prodction, imports lass sporta, and
Popcletion (.id-year million)   A. nO JulY first:  if not aviale vrge                          changas in stock; net spplia.. enlude animal feed, seeds, quantities uaed
of two end-year etmae;1 60, 1970 and 1975 daus.                                              in fund processing and lasses in distribotion; requiriemete were estiasied
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal sotietty and health cesid-
Ponu1ation densLiy - Par square     - Mid-year population per Square kilasmeter                ering snvir-m,ial tas.-aarr, body -aighte, age and se  distributnions or
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                                population, and allowing lO  for wast.eat household level.
Poeclation demaity -Pera osre ion of antic, land - Coputed as abova for                      Par c-citr eusefly of protein barn car day) - Pronain  ontant of par c.pica
agricultural land only.                                                                      nat oppl  of fod par day; met supply of food is defined as above; require-
meets for all c.ounries established by USDA E.-Meic Research SarJelus
Vital sttsisProvide for a  inim,  allowance of 60 gras of total proteie Par day, and
Crude birch rate ant rha_and. avarnas - Annual live bi,ethe Par thousand of                    20 gras of animal and pulse Protcin, of which 10 gras should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year aritiasetic averages anding in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; these standards are loear than these of 75 gr-  of total proteic
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast rent estimate.                                and 23 gras of animal protein a  anverogs for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude desih rate Par thonasud. averass - Annual deaths Per thousand of mid-yea                 is the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritbmostic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Par c.pit. protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year avrage onding in 1970 for unet r..c.nt estimate,                                        derived frns animals and pulses. in grass, Par day.
Infant mortality rate (/thoul - Annual deathe of infants ondar one year of age               Dsath rats C/thou; seas 1-4 - Annual deaths par thoceand in  B.a group 1-4
per thousand live hirths.                                                                    years, to children In this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life espactancy at birth (yre) - Average ucashr of years of life rma,iming at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-ye-o  veregas ending in 1960, 1970 and 1971 for develap-
ing countries.                                                                             Edunation
Groas reproduction ratea-Average nnbar of live daughters a wasn will bear                    Adjusted.enrollment ratic -, eriar school -Enrollmet of all ages as Par-
ishern-   a  rpoutve period if she empariesces present age-spacific                        catg   f ru     sho-g  population  includes childran aged 6-lt yeare
fertility rates; usoolly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    hut adjusted for different leng ths of primary education ; fur c-tsrisa nich
for develping conre,dnvra   education, enrllment my amusd 100. since  me   pupils are below
populationlcrunc  rte  7) -total - Compoud ann1 growth ratsd of mid-yea                        or shows the official school age.
pplto fo1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970.75."o                                           Adiuntad enro1launt ratio - aecondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Poeulation croth rate (%) - urban - Computed lihe growth rate of total                         educa.tion requires at leastr four years of approved primary inetrction;
population; different definiti.on  of urban  area  may affect nasparability of               provides gaa   -l oational or teacher training instruction   for pupils
Ubn = t-Tt1  erdate am ng ountries,                                                           of 12 to 17 yeses of age; correspondence croure  are genera-lly sec lded.
Ura  oclto   (% oftotal; -IRatio of urban to total population ; different             Yerar of choiaprovided (first and second levelsl-Toa   easo
dafinitione of urban areas my effect c-p-rbility of date asn-  ceatmrias.                    schooling; at  Isa         .- lve, voctiona  instruction my ha partie11y or
has uructre (ercet) -Children (0-14 yeses), woking-age (15-64 years),                 Voainlarlmn   Xof sec ondary)-Voainlnstuosicud
and retired (6) years and over) so pa.. retages of mid-yea  population,                      technical, industrial ur other prngra  hich oparate indepandencly or a
Ate dependency ratdo - naic of population under 15 and 65 and ove  to those                    departments of secondary inatit.ti-na
of age   IS hrough 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (shin to red end writs) as per-
iccuomgc depeudeucy ratic - noti  uf population under 1) aud 65 and over tc                     ce.tage of total adult  poplation  gccd 15 ycre and over.
the labor force  ic ogo groupof!15-6.4 years... 
Faily plaunin   -acceptoro  (cositvo. thou) - Cumulative nuner of acceptors                   osu
of hirtb-coctro  devices under aupice. of notional family planning Program                 Parsons p-r room (urban) - Average n,aser of persona Per room in occupied
since IncePt,o-covnc,o  dwellings in orban arose; d-slliu0e  -nlude  o-emnu
family   ,. cluinc-ooeru  7,o otiod ue)- Pcce-tgdnsof married wec  of                          strut.cres and unoccupied perts.
child-bearngag  (15-44 ya-r) who our"b'irth-cotrol deices to all married                   SOcpid dwellings wthout pined water  0l) - cpicd conentional dwellicga
-uny.    suns age grou-p.                                                                    in arbas and rural  .re.  without inside or outside piped aster facilities
aspretge of all occpied dwellings.
ftcloyment                                                                                    Access to ele1ctricity (% of all dwellioxa) - Convencio...l dwellings with
Total labor force (thcuaand) - Economically active persona, including areed                     electriiciy in living quarters as percet of total dwellings in urban ecd
forcee and ucmploynd hut secluding heusewivee, students, etc.; definitions                   -rurlres
in various countries are not coparable.                                                    Rural duellinga connected to electricity (%) - Computed as shove for roes1
Labor force in agriculture (%) - igrico ltura1 labor force (in farming, forestry,               dwellings only.
buting an ishing) asprantage of total labor force.
nm oed CTo   abrfrc)-inmeployed are   -11sy defined as parsons who                       ongt~ijon
are ale  n   iln   ctk     jb   c   fajbo    gvndy   eae   c                                Radio receivers (par thou roe) - All typea of receivers for radio broadn..ect
of a job;,.and seekin  wor..k forta ap.cifieid niniJ.a  period not esceeding one             to general1 public pee thousand of population; secludes onIicned rece.iv-rn
wek    ynt _b uPerabl  howen conr ies duc to differen  dfinitions                      in contnie  and in years when registration of radio esets wee in effect;
ci unmp)oyed and s ource of date, e.g.,  sploymnt offIesttistics, amPle                       data for recent yeses my nor he comparable since moat coutries abolished
snevys, cmpuleery ocamploynnt insurance,                                                      icensing.
P-ese r car  (per thouso)   Pa....nger crar  ocprise motor cers sasting
Joeo   distribution  - Parcatage of private income (both in cash and kind)                      Seas than eght parsons; satludes amblann-, hearse  andlalitary
receivd by richest 5%, richest 207%, pooret 20%, and poorest 40% of hone-                     vehicle.
holds,                                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr car cap) - Annual consuasption of industrial, toamercial,
public and private electricity in kilowett hones per capita, generally
Disteibstion of land  -serhip - Percentages of land ownd by wealthiest lOX                      base.d on production da ta, without allowance far lose.as in grids hot allo--
and poorsat 10%. of laud owesig for imparts and eaperis of electriity.
NestPris't Cbs/yr ar cp) - Per cap1is. annua  c-naaption  in kilogram
Health and Nutrition                                                                            estmatd Peasm d       tic  Production Plus net imports of swprint.
Populationprhyian          - Population divided by number  f Practicing
phsca squlified from  a adicl school at university level.



- 21 -
Annex I
PaSe 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCr IN 1977                                                               ANtUAI. RATE OF GROWTH (    CONSTANT PRICES)
105 Million         %                                          1960-67                          1967-72                        1972-77
GNP at Market Prices           1,193.6          100.0                                           0.1                              1.9                            4.2
Gross Domestic Invesoneot        207.2            17.4                                         -3.0                             18.5                           11.4
Gross National Sav-ng            106.9             9.0                                        -16.5                             23.4                            4.5
Current Account Balance           -6.4           -0.5
EIport of Goods., NFS            242.5           20.3                                          -2.2                             11.2                            4.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            335.8            28.1                                          0.2                             11.0                           11.7
OUTPUPT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCrIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                                        Labor Force                                      V.A. per Worker
015s million                    %                            HMl.                                               US%
Agriculture                       443.9                      37,0
Indastry   1                      204.2                      17.0
Servi...                          552.5                      46,0
Unallocated
(Manufa-t-ring)                  (118.8)                     (9.9)
Total/Average             1,200.6                     100.0                           ..                    T5Wo                           *.                     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                       Central Government
(G Million)                 % of GDP                                  (1 Million)                    7. of GDP
1976                1976              1975-76                         1976                1976               1975-76
Ctrrent Receipts                                 575.7  4/             11.4 4/            11.6 4/                      546.6                 10.8                 11.0
torrent Ependiture                               490.9  3j              9,7 </            10.0 5t                      487.9                  9.6                 10.0
Current Sarplos                                   84.8                  1.7                1.6                          58.7                  1.2                  1.0
Capital Expenditures                             437.4  A/              8.6 6t             9.0 2/                      328.2                  6.5                  5.9
tteenal Assisraxce  (nct)                        322.0  7/              6.4 7/             5.5 7/                      289.6                  5.7                  4.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970        1971          1972         1973          1974         1975          1976          1977
(million G outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    l98.2         251.2         322.7        410.2         532.5        597.6         800.5         958.3
Baak Credit to Public Sloter  8/                         189.2         202.5         210.1        236.8         324.9        402.3         494.1         549.7
Bank Credit to Private Settr                              65.3          78.5         110.4        188.1         328.8        477.6         549.8         682.1
(percentages    inde  numbers)
M.-y and Quai M-ney as % of GDP                           10.0          11.3          13.7         15.0          15.4         14.6          15.8          16.0
General Priee ladex (1965 - 100) 9/                      114.6         120.3         127.2        148.8         169.4        203.0         229.1         264.8
Annual Perentage Changes in
General Price Index                                        3.3           4.9           5.7         17.0          13.8         19.8          12.9          15.6
Bank Credit to Publie Sector  8/                          -2.1           7.0           3.8         12.7          37.2         23.8          22.8          11.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              9.9          20.2          40.6         70.4          74.8         45.3          15.1          24.1
Note:  All -ooversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period  -overed.
1/ Data refers to Fy ending September 30.
2/ Mining, manufaeturing, public utilities,  onstraction.
3/ Coneolidated aceounts of Central Govermnent and Publie Enterprises
4/ Central Government total current revenues + operating surpluses of puhlic enterprises
5/  Central Government total expenditure   +  capital espenditure of public enterprises  +  operating deficits ot public enterprises  -  -otal public seotor
development expenditure
6/ Total public scorer development expenditure (incl. techinial assistance).
7/ Net diabursements of loans + grants.
8/ Includes IDB loans to the public secttr channeled through the National Bandk.
9/ GDP deflator.
Latin Anerita and the Caribbea-
Country Programs I
Macoh 31, 1978



- 22 -
Page 4 o 4 pages
TRADE PAYMTS AND CAPITAL FPIVS   V
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                           MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1974      1975         1976        1977                                                                                US$ Million ..
(Million of US$)
Coffee                                                           42.0            24.0
Export-of Goods, NFS                                  132.5     156.9       209.8        242.5               SBgar                                                               3.7             2.1
Isports of Goods, NFS                                169.8      209.4       272.3       335.8                 Eseotial Oils                                                      6.5             3.7
Resoorco Gap (doficit = - )                          -37.3      -52.5       -62.5       -93.3                 Sisal                                                              15 4.7
Baoxite                                                           15.4            8.8
Interest Payments (ne1)                               -0.6       -1.5         -2.0        -2.4                 seat Indastries aned H1diorft                                    89.4            51.1
(Assebly Ind-sry, net)                                          (14.8)           (8.55
Other Factor Payments foot)                            -5.3       -5.6        -5.2        -4.6                All Other Co-modities                                             16.1             9.2
Net Transfers                                          26.9      39.4        65.0         68.3                              Total                                              175.0          100. 0
Bolance of Current Acco-nt                           -16.3      -20.2         -4.7       -32.0
EXTERNAL DEBT. BEPTRMBER 30. 1977                             US$ Million
Diro t Foreign Investment                               7.9        2.6         5.0         3.0
Net MIT Borrowing                                                                                             Pablic Debt, i-l. goareot.ed                                     151.4
Disb-rsements                                       10.9       23.9        39.7        61.9                 Non-Guaranteed Peiv-te Debt
Amorti-adto                                          6.1        6.8         9.2        10.3                 Total outstatding snd Disbursed                                  151.4
Subtotal                                             4.8       17.1        30.5        51.6                 DEBI SERVICE RATTO FOR 1977  3/
Other items  .e.i.                                    -15.6      -23.7      -11.0       -11.3                                                                                     %
--crse  in Reseer-s (+)                              -19.2      -24.2        19.8        11.3                 Public Debt, incl5  guar-t-d                                       7.3
Gross Reserees  2/                                    14.7       12.7        28.3        35.9                 Non-Gosresteed Private Debt
Net Reorves  2/                                       -0.6      -24.8        -5.0         6.3                 Total Ousttanding end Disborsed                                    7.3
FPel sad Related Mnterialn                                                                                    IBRD/IDA LENDING. (SEPTEMBER 30, 1977) (MILLION US$):
Imports                                             12.4       12.9        17.1    t .a.
Exports .                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD           IDA
Ontetending and Disborsed                                                        37.3
Undiebsrsed                                                          _           24.6
RATE OF EICIANGE                                                                                              Oatstanding iocl. Undisbursed                                       _            61.9
Throogh  - 1971                       Since-  1971
US$1.00 n G5.00                       0S$1.00 = G5.00
l .00    US$0.20                      G1.00 = US$0.20
*/ DOto refers to fiscal yoars eeding Saptenber 30.
2/ September 30.
5/ Ratio of Debt Service to REports of Goode sod Now-Factor Services.
not availabln
moo applicable
Latin America and the Caribbeae
Country Peogra= I
March 31, 1978



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
-------US$ Million-------
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                         Bank
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose            Amount   IDA  Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed                                            2.6   0.40
478-HA    1974    Republic of Haiti    Highway                       10.00       0.4
556-HA    1975    Republic of Haiti    Highway                       20.00       2.4
618-HA    1976    Republic of Haiti    Education                      5.50       4.5
645-HA    1976    Republic of Haiti    Power                         16.00       3.1
675-HA    1977    Republic of Haiti    Rural Development             10.00      10.0
757-HA2/ 1978    Republic of Haiti    Water Supply                    6.60       6.6
770-HA2/ 1978    Republic of Haiti    Education               -      7.85    10.0
78.5
Total                                        2.6
of which has been repaid                   2.6
Total now outstanding                        Nil
Amount sold                                  0.4
of which has been repaid                   0.4   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     78.5 1/
Total undisbursed                                            37.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1978)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 478     Third Highway Project; US$10 Million Credit of June 6, 1974,
amended on November 14, 1974;
and            Date of Effectiveness:  September 9, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977, postponed to June 30, 1978.
Credit 556     Fourth Highway Project; US$20 Million Credit of June 11, 1975;
Effective Date: October 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Both projects, which comprise reconstruction of the Northern
Road (250 km) linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien, are near-
ing completion. Remaining works include: (i) putting up
traffic signs and painting road markings; and tii) additional
minor improvements to be financed from the balances of the two
Credits. Works were substantially completed by the end of
1977, ahead of schedule in the case of Credit 556-HA. However,
the Closing Date of Credit 478 has been postponed to allow
minor traffic signal works to proceed.
Consultants retained under Credit 556-HA have assisted in the
preparation of the Fifth Transportation Project.
Credit 618     First Education Prolect; US$5.5 Million Credit
of February 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical works are about five months behind schedule because
of initial delays in organizing the Project Unit and in appoint-
ing architects. However, acceleration of bidding procedures
for the second and third phases of school construction should
permit construction to be completed on time. At present,
construction of 18 rural primary schools is proceeding under a
first phase of the construction program, and contracts have
been approved for the second phase of school construction. A
new common curriculum for teacher training has been prepared, a
National Education Plan has been completed and work has started
on revision of primary school curricula. Most of the technical
assistance specialists have arrived in Haiti.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Credit 645     First Power Project; US$16 Million Credit of July 2, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1976; Closina Date:
September 30, 1978.
All the main contracts have been awarded. The major ele-
ments of the project should be completed roughly within the
original schedule although the first two smaller units of
the diesel power plant have been delayed by nine months.
Credit 675     Rural Development Prolect; US$10 Million Credit
of January 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 27. 1977:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Credit became effective on May 27, 1977 and is still at
an early stage of execution. The Deputy Project Manager, the
Agronomist, the Credit Specialist and two engineers have
taken up their assignments. A third engineer is expected to
arrive by mid-1978. Sufficient Government funds for project
financing/prefinancing were made available after some delay.
Credit 757     Provincial Towns Water Supply Prolect; US$6.6 Million Credit
of January 23, 1978;
Deadline for Effectiveness: May 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
SNEP, the Water Supply Authority, has started to select
consultants for the project. Discussions are underway with
UNCDF regarding administration of the UNCDF-financed project
for three provincial towns. Technical assistance from the
Pan American Health Organization started on schedule.
Credit 770     Second Education Project; US$10 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978;
Deadline for Effectiveness: June 9, 1978,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Although the project is not yet effective, the Project Unit
is mobilizing the staff and other resources necessary to
begin implementation. A mission that visited Haiti in
March in connection with supervision of the First Education
Project, advised the Project Unit on the initiation of activi-
ties under the Second Project.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
FIFTH TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to IDA:         December 1976
(b) First IDA mission to identify
and prepare the project:           February 1977
(c)  Project prepared by:               Government/Consultants with
assistance of IDA staff,
March-September 1977
(d)  Pre-appraisal mission:             July 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:  October 18, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:        April 12, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   August 1978
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
lII.   Special Conditions
Agreement was reached with the Government and APN regarding:
(a) preparation of a transport investment program for the 1978-83
period and subsequent annual updating (paragraph 24);
(b) SAT's work program for the 1978-80 period (paragraph 25);
(c) enforcement of vehicle weight regulations; preparation, by
December 31, 1978, of a schedule of specific road sections
to be brought under continued maintenance during the 1979-82
period; establishment of a separate training unit within
SEPRRN and strengthening of the training function (paragraph 35);
(d) studies regarding the establishment of an institutional
framework for the guidance and support of coastal shipping
services (paragraph 45);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement which would provide
for onlending of US$3.3 million of the proposed credit to APN
on agreed terms (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 70)
and provision of an equity contribution of US$1.1 million
to APN for the coastal ports component (paragraph 54);
(f) government authorization for APN to increase coastal shipping
port tariffs to achieve certain operating and working ratios;
organization of a Coastal Ports Service within APN and
limitation of APN's responsibility to project ports; revalua-
tion of coastal shipping port assets; limitations on APN's
debt and investments; full retention of port charges and
setting of APN's tariffs at a level sufficient to earn a
6 percent return on assets (paragraph 55).






eR D 13293
JANIUA  19i8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
If.
Q,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
LU 
w
Ci.
IN                                                                                                                   5
-o z
U.                                          -
'S    * -~~~                                                                9                                 I                             S
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






7225        -                                          72.B0
sA rT M I                      A- TI AN T i C
FIFTH -TRANSPORTATION  PROJECT                                                                                      - C - A N
NORTHERN REGK3N ,q ADS -ROAD
P.0 M.,g.t                L..D                                              Lo',Ao,.
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Glo
;i!   R>.,          N"                                        'L' ' ' '                                                             I~~~~~~~~~.,
-r             I-           J                                    oI  I I                                              d
20. 200                                                                                                                                         ,9-30
'0. ~ ~    ~    '
0  S                S~~~~~~~~~~S             "
PROJECT IAMPROVEAMErITS
Bo,,Bdges
jo e-orieb:39n. _= - ,o.^, oo  LALTITUDES ( moteso                               EXISTING ROADS
1000 or Mor.            Mos, Roods
800 - 1000              Secondooy Rood.
- r  4 t ...i::h    .. ,-                                                 ' "'s,, , 60  - 800  D--,      ndo
200  400                R,-o                                                       otj
0 -200
    O1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~""~~~2 






IBRD 13295
SPAS ,  P   '   ,,!55                   --                                 '           '      JANUAXY 1977
A (LAt/
A   ~~,    9~CPtA M
HAITI                                       T                                                                                             -Ccl4-004,
F!FTH TRANSPOTATION PROJECT A''
PORT-AU-PRtNCE AREA                                                                                          CI          En SIMO NE4
~~~~~~~C                                                    NI ?W  :E eR5t#-
:   .               tV                 ,   .  V         A               X            ,                                                                 /~~~LA  LIN
INIERNAIIO0NAL
10   -;  f  :jt f ' ; ;10010
PoAT-Au-PRNCE SAY
P,roposed Now Terminal St|\
fU, (on Orl Shirr|ng
New Wharf lUndree  Coostroc ian    t                  9//./",,          . g /,
e0ucf-Up ArenO
i7      200  400   000  900 Q    000  12t0  400 tQ;O   0/'
~~ '    '   ~~METERS'         '     '             1    g                                                                                                  >
?~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o !                                                                                                t4/-:  o
I~0                                                                          /' '                                                                                                             '- a  ''0E
j A-7-A-o,
. i  -  ; z L- 0 0     :.20     Q   g   -:; :z7   . r    ; '~ '  GnA w t  g  H A I T
77 ,5                                        ,-~ z                                    77*an  -79'offdoP



