Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22169-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$589 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 30, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (INR)
INR 1.00 = US$0.022
US$1 = INR 45.42
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT -        Annual Average Daily Traffic           MOST -        Ministry of Surface Transport
ADB   -       Asian Development Bank                 NCB  -        National Competitive Bidding
AIDS  -       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome    NGO  -        Non governmental organization
APL   -       Adaptable Program Loan                 NHAI -        National Highways Authority of India
BOT   -       Build-Operate-Transfer                 NHDP -        National Highway Development
C&AG -        Controller & Auditor General of India                Program
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy            NPV  -        Net Present Value
CBO   -       Community Based Organization           O&M  -        Operation and Maintenance
CMU  -        Corridor Management Unit               OD   -        Operational Directive
EA    -       Environmental Assessment               PFMS -        Project Financial Management
EMP  -        Environmental Management Plan                        Systems
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Retum                 PIC   -       Project Information Center
ESMU -        Environment & Social Management Unit   PMR  -        Project Management Report
GOI   -       Government of India                    PMU  -        Project Management Unit
GTRIP -       Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project    PPP   -      Public-Private Partnership
HDM-III-      Highway Design and Maintenance         PSD   -       Private Sector Development
Standards Model - Version III          PWD  -       Public Works Departments
HIV   -       Human Immunodeficiency Virus           RAP  -        Resettlement Action Plan
HO    -       Head Office                            R&R  -        Resettlement and Rehabilitation
JBIC   -      Japanese Bank for International        ROW  -        Right-of-Way
Cooperation                            SC    -       Supervision Consultants
ICB    -      International Competitive Bidding      SIL   -       Specific Investment Loan
ICR    -      Implementation Completion Report       SOE  -        Statement of Expenditure
IL&FS -       Infrastructure Leasing & Financial     TN\HP -       Third National Highway Project
Services                               TTZ  -       The Taj Trapezium Zone
MOEF -        Ministry of Environment & Forestry     UP   -        Uttar Pradesh
MORTH-        Ministry of Road Transport & Highways    WTCP -      Western Transport Corridor Project
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Zhi Liu



INDIA
GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         9
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             14
4. Indications of borrower conmnitment and ownership                                    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             15
2. Financial                                                                            16
3. Technical                                                                            17
4. Institutional                                                                        17
5. Environmental                                                                        I8
6. Social                                                                               22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       27
2. Critical risks                                                                       28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             29
2. Other                                                                               29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or                        44
Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             66
Annex 11: Environment & Social Assessment, EMP, and RAP                                   68
MAP(S)
IBRD 31387



INDIA
Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASIN
Date: May 30, 2001                                Team Leader: Zhi Liu
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim               Sector Manager/Director: Vincent Gouame
Project ID: P071244                               Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, DV -
Privatization, TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Public Sector; Private Sector; Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant       [1 Guarantee     [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 589.00
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                             Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      161.20           5.80        167.00
IBRD                                                         377.60          211.40        589.00
Total:                                                       538.80          217.20        756.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
NHAI
Address: National Highway Authority of India, 1, Eastem Avenue, Maharani Bagh, New Delhi, 110065
Contact Person: Subhash Patel, Chief General Manager (World Bank Projects)
Tel: 91-11-682-4974                Fax: 91-11-692-4383                Email: nhai@vcnl.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual   88.00      147.00     177.00     118.00      59.00
Cumulative    88.00     235.00    412.00     530.00    589.00
Project implementation period: Five years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
00SPAD FaV   S  Ma . 25



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Bank adopts a programmatic approach to support the Government of India's (GOI) National
Highway Development Program (NHDP) through a series of loans. The Grand Trunk Road
Improvement Project (GTRIP) is the second project in the series, following the Third National
Highway Project (TNHP) which was approved by the Board in June 2000 and is under
implementation. Thus the development objectives of the project are consistent with those of
TNHP: (a) to reduce transport constraints on national economic activity; and (b) to improve
institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets, and services on a more commercial
basis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a) Vehicle travel time along the entire national highway corridor between Delhi and Calcutta
reduced by 25-30% by end of project (EOP); (b) truck operating costs reduced by at least 10% by
EOP; (c) incidence of road deaths reduced by 20% on project roads by EOP; and (d) about 1,200
km of national highways maintained under contract with private sector and managed by the
Corridor Management Units (CMU) by EOP.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0037/1[IFC/R2001-0037/11     Date of latest CAS discussion: 4/5/2001
The CAS identifies highway infrastructure bottlenecks as one of the major constraints to poverty
reduction and private sector-led growth. The GTRIP supports the CAS sector goal of reducing
highway infrastructure bottlenecks. The project is also designed to contribute to the two
important areas emphasized by the CAS: (a) improving government capability and effectiveness to
deliver core public services that are vital for economic growth and poverty reduction; and (b)
enabling the environment for private sector investments in infrastructure. The major project
works will be implemented in the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh, which are among
the less developed states in India. The project is expected to improve the ability of these states to
participate in the economic development and trade which is taking place to a larger extent
elsewhere in India.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The national highway network has a total length of 57,700 km, which accounts for about 1.7
percent of the total road network of 3.3 million km but carries over 40% of the road traffic. Over
95% of the national highway network are two-lane roads or narrower, and a significant
proportion is in poor surface condition. This results from years of inadequate allocation of
resources to the core highway system and poor management of transport infrastructure by the
public sector. During the market liberalization in the 1 990s, steady economic growth has driven
up the demand for improved road transport; and traffic on the national highways has been
- 2 -



growing at about 8-10% per annum. As a result, the trunk national highways are increasingly
congested.
The level of service is further worsened by the mixed traffic of fast and slow vehicles, highly
congested and unsafe urban crossings, and state border inspections/check points (for the purposes
of tax collection and commodity permits) that often hold up truck traffic for many hours. It takes
four to five days for a truck to go one way between Delhi and Calcutta (about 1,300 km).
Moreover, the poor driving condition in mixed traffic on the two-lane national highways is a
major contributing factor to road traffic accidents. India is among the nations with the highest
road accident rate per vehicle, and 38% of the road accidents occur on national highways. Where
both vehicle insurance system and health care are less developed, the economic and health impacts
of traffic accidents on poor households are especially severe.
Improving the level of service on the national highway corridors requires both capacity investment
and traffic efficiency/safety enhancement. The financial requirements for increasing the trunk
highway capacity through 4-laning, 6-laning, and expressway construction are expected to be
beyond the level that the public sector alone will be able to meet in the near future. However,
private sector participation in road financing is just starting, and is facing a number of institutional
and market constraints. For example, institutional capacity needs to be built up for the
preparation, implementation, and monitoring of highway concession projects. The domestic
financial market is yet to develop appropriate long-term financial instruments needed for private
investment in road infrastructure. Few projects are financially viable for a stand-alone private
investment, and most projects would require Public-Private Partnership (PPP) to become viable.
However, various modalities of PPP are still under development and need to be tested. All these
constraints must be overcome before private investment can be mobilized to provide significant
additionality to public investment.
National highway development in India is also heavily constrained by the weak institutional
capacity and lengthy procedures to address project-related environmental and social issues. While
relevant laws and government institutions are in place to deal with the issues, technical capabilities
are inadequate, and coordination is weak among the central and state administrative jurisdictions.
Moreover, there is a lack of adequate mechanism for the consultation with and participation of the
project affected people, stakeholders, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the
process. As many displaced households are of low income, their relocation and rehabilitation
need to be handled more carefully. There is a need for social and environmental capacity building
to ensure the speedy implementation of the NHDP.
To summarize, the following main issues are recognized in the national highway sector: (a)
serious road capacity constraint on the national highway network; (b) worsening road safety amid
growing motorization; (c) poor management of road infrastructure services by the public sector;
(d) weak enabling environment for private sector participation in road financing; and (e) weak
institutional capacity to address highway project related social and environmental issues.
Government strategy. The GOI recognizes that the poor performance of the national highway
system has been a major drag on the growth of national economy and is determined to upgrade
-3 -



the system through its NHDP. The program was based on the govemment strategy outlined in
the 1996 India Infrastructure Report. Covering a network of 13,000km, the program includes
the four-laning of a 6,000 km "Golden Quadrilateral" (linking Delhi, Calcutta, Chennai and
Mumbai), the North-South and East-West corridors, and the trunk roads to key ports. It also
includes the planning and construction of expressways where feasible. Total cost for the program
is estimated to be US$12 billion over eight years, and funding sources include govemrnment grants,
fuel levies, tolls, bonds, private investments, and loans from international development banks,
including the on-going TNHP funded by the World Bank. A cess of Rs. 1 per liter on petrol and
diesel was introduced by GOI in 1999, and a substantial portion (about Rs. 2000 crores or
equivalent of US$430 million a year) of the cess revenues is earmarked for national highway
development, maintenance, and operation. Moreover, GOI has made notable efforts to improve
the enabling environment for private sector participation in national highway financing. The
efforts include the development of policy guidelines and a legal framework for private investments
in national highway projects. The National Highway Act was amended to permit tolls on national
highways and to provide financial incentives such as public-private partnership to encourage
private investments on toll roads. According to the policy guideline, the government may provide
financial support up to 40% of the project cost to enhance the viability of the private investment
projects, and the amount of support would be determined through competitive bidding. A number
of projects have been identified for private investments through BOT schemes, and concessions
have been signed for nearly 20 bridges and short bypass projects, although these projects are
mostly small scale (less than 20 km each).
Institutional reform to improve the effectiveness of public road agencies is also an integral part of
the government strategy. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MORTH, formerly the
Ministry of Surface Transport) had long been responsible for the development and management of
the national highways. With close oversight, MORTH delegated considerable responsibilities to
the national highway branches in the state Public Works Departments (PWDs). Under the
National Highways Authority of India Act of 1988, GOI established the National Highways
Authority of India (NHAI) to take charge of major works programs on the national highway
network. The Act requires NHAI to act on business principles as far as possible in the discharge
of its functions. The agency has maintained a lean organization by outsourcing most of its
activities to the private sector. It has now assumed full responsibility for the implementation of
NHDP, including the extemally-aided projects financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and the World Bank. As part of this
program, NHAI has taken significant steps to develop and strengthen its institutional capacity for
the development, maintenance, and operation of the national highway system in response to the
needs of road users and other stakeholders. The institutional development being undertaken by
NHAI is fostering a cultural change in the Indian road sector of viewing roads as a service instead
of merely a physical infrastructure. However, NHAI is still in the early stages of reforms in
accounting policies and strengthening of its financial management systems, in its move towards
being an effective agency managing its resources on business principles. In this regard, actions
are being planned to address several policy and process related issues during implementation of
the GTRIP and the TNHP. NHAI is also a designated implementing agency for the preparatory
work and monitoring the implementation of private investment projects on the national highway
network. Recently the agency has taken responsibility for the maintenance and operation of 6,000
- 4 -



km Golden Quadrilateral, and is exploring suitable maintenance contracts with the private sector,
partly through the implementation of the CMU concept under the TNHP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The GTRIP will help address all five main sector issues discussed above by: (a) adding much
needed capacity to the heavily congested part of the national highway network; (b) reducing the
risks of road accidents and improving traffic efficiency; (c) promoting private sector participation
in road financing; and (d) enhancing institutional capacity for the effective delivery and
management of national highway assets and services. This broad scope of the project is desired
due to the expected great impact, and also realistic as the project will complement and consolidate
the similar effort being made under the on-going TNHP. TNHP comprises three major
components: (a) upgrading of 475 km national highway; (b) corridor management and road safety
works; and (c) institutional strengthening and training. It mainly aims to improve NHAI's
capacity in the areas of project implementation, accountability, strategic planning, and asset
management. The GTRIP will take a significant step further along the same institutional
strengthening direction set forth by the TNHP, especially with regard to private sector
participation and road safety.
Due to the programmatic approach, the GTRIP broadly follows the strategic choices made under
the TNHP. In addition, a strategic choice is made to support private sector participation in road
financing.
Institution choice. The GTRIP fully supports the GOI's strategy of shifting responsibility for the
NHDP from MORTH to NHAI. Both the TNHP and GTRIP, as well as ADB's proposed
Western Transport Corridor Project (WTCP), support NHAI's institutional development towards
a non-bureaucratic agency that manages national highways like a business. In addition to the
effort to maintain a lean organization through outsourcing most of its activities to the private
sector, NHAI is exploring various financial sources outside the central government budget, and is
taking initial step to include a national highway user group representative as a member of its
Board. Moreover, NHAI has demonstrated strong commitment through satisfactory progress in
the implementation of the TNHP and the preparation of the GTRIP. The institutional
strengthening actions to be supported under the GTRIP are defined in close coordination with the
TNHP and WTCP under the institutional development strategic framework agreed by NHAI,
ADB, and the Bank.
Public or private finance. Private investments in the road sector have so far been very limited, and
there are still many institutional and market constraints to overcome before private sector is able
to play a greater role in road financing. GOI is actively pursuing various options for attracting
private sector funding. The Bank has been providing assistance in this aspect through an
on-going Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) Project. NHAI is actively
exploring and experimenting various options to encourage private investments on national
highways. Nevertheless, in the short to medium term, before the enabling environment is matured
for substantial private sector financing, a large part of India's road infrastructure will need to be
provided and managed by the public sector. This project focuses on the urgently needed public
- 5-



investments, while supporting NHAI's efforts to promote private sector participation broadly in
road financing, operation and maintenance, construction and engineering services. A private
sector participation component is defined to help NHAI test a modality of PPP through a
relatively large pilot BOT project. This pilot project is timely as the private investment in road
infrastructure needs to be stimulated by successful examples and demonstration of government
commitment.
Corridor choice. There is coordination among the World Bank, ADB, and JBIC in terms of
assistance to the improvements of priority corridors in the NHDP. The major works of this
project and the on-going TNHP are on National Highway 2 (NH-2, also popularly known as
Grand Trunk Road) between Delhi and Calcutta. Interventions focusing on one particular
national highway corridor have an advantage for effectively addressing: (a) project related
environmental and social issues; and (b) corridor transport efficiency issues through a combination
of capacity investment, corridor management, and reduction of traffic delays caused by border
check posts. Moreover, the project will finance civil works associated with road safety, Corridor
Management Units, and public-private partnership on other selected national highways. These
civil works are proposed as part of the support to NHAI's institutional capacity building.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Highway upgrading: The national highway sections proposed for upgrading under the GTRIP,
totaling 420 kin, are all located along the 1,000 km of NH-2 from Agra in Uttar Pradesh (UP) to
Barwa Adda in Jharkhand. The entire stretch is divided into 16 construction sections. Eight
sections were chosen for financing under the TNHP on the basis of implementation readiness.
The sections proposed by NHAI for financing under the GTRIP are all remaining sections except
one (Allahabad section) which will be considered for financing under the Bank's next national
highway project. The upgrading works mainly involve the widening of existing two lanes to a
4-lane divided carriageways with service roads, bypasses, and other traffic separation measures
where required. In one section between Agra and Bhognipur, widening to 6 lanes is proposed for
accommodating the heavy traffic. The project also makes a provision for low-cost interim traffic
management measures, as necessary, to deal with the short-term congestion in the existing
national highway stretch passing through the city of Allahabad.
Road safety and corridor management works: This component includes the civil works
associated with the support to NHAI's institutional capacity building in the areas of road safety
and corridor management. It finances the improvement of hazardous locations on selected
national highways, and the implementation of civil works associated with the new Corridor
Management Units to be established under the project.
- 6 -



Public-private partnership in road concession: In collaboration with similar and related efforts
by ADB, this component will assist NHAI to undertake detailed preparation and implementation
of a pilot project to upgrade, under an innovative public-private partnership scheme, a selected
national highway section (over 60 kin) outside the NH-2 corridor. One candidate section would
be the stretch between Tindivanam and Tiruchirapalli on the NH-45 within Tamil Nadu. The
entire stretch is 200 km long, and is proposed to be upgraded from 2 lanes to 4 lanes. The project
is expected to require NHAI financial support (estimated to be around US$25 million) to enhance
its financial viability for private sector participation. It is proposed that a BOT scheme be
awarded based on competitive bidding on the required NHAI share of public-private investment,
under the fixed toll rate and fixed concession period. The feasibility study, detailed engineering
design, and draft Environmental Assessment (EA) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the
stretch have been completed with funding from the Bank's Second National Highway Project.
The component will fund consultant service for the preparation of concession (including legal
advisory, preparation of bid documents, and evaluation of bids) and a portion of the bidden
government (NHAI) financial support for the project or another more suitable candidate section.
Institutional strengthening: The component builds on the similar component under the TNHP,
and is designed in a close coordination with ADB's WTCP (which has a similar implementation
timetable to the current project) under the institutional development strategic framework agreed
among NHAI, ADB, and the Bank. A joint assistance strategy for the India's road sector between
the Bank and ADB has recently been developed in consultation with MORTH and NHAI to help
coordinate the assistance program of the Bank and ADB and policy dialogue in the national
highways and state highways subsectors. The TNHP focuses mainly on technical assistance to
NHAI to develop and implement the institutional strengthening program, setting up of a road
information system, establishment of two pilot CMUs, and implementation of a program of minor
road improvements to increase operational efficiency and reduce accidents. The GTRIP will
enhance the capacity of MORTH and NHAI to improve road safety and traffic efficiency, expand
its program of corridor management, strengthen the newly created social and environmental unit,
strengthen the public-private partnership for road financing, and develop a computerized national
highway asset inventory. Specifically, the component will include the following sub-components:
(a) NHAI's social and environmental capacity building, including (i) a poverty and highway
development study that would help understand the poverty dimension of the social issues involved
in highway development, and (ii) consultant services for training and streamlining monitoring
procedures; (b) training of trainers and dissemination of road safety manual; (c) public road safety
education and campaign through mass media; (d) implementation of road safety action plan to be
formulated under the TNHP; (e) computerizing the Golden Quadrilateral national highway asset
inventory; (f) CMUs related consultant services; (g) a cross-state border road efficiency study;
and (h) provision for subsequent project preparation and sector studies, including expressway
project preparation (the stretch from Vadodara to Mumbai is proposed as one of the candidates
for detailed project study).
-7-



Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
_ _M_  L    Total    - $M       ficing
1. Highway upgrading of 420 km of  Highways           685.30       90.6    527.40       89.5
NH-2 to four or six lanes including
construction, supervision, land
acquisition and resettlement, and
environmental management.
2. Road safety and corridor         Highways           20.20        2.7      16.20       2.8
management works.
3. Public-private partnership in road  PSI             25.60        3.4      20.60       3.5
concession, including technical
assistance, funding NHAI's share of
public-private financing of pilot BOT
project on NH-45.
4. Institutional strengthening, including  Institutional  19.00     2.5      18.90       3.2
(a) NHAI's social and environmental    Development
capacity building; (b) training of
trainers and dissemination of road
safety manual; (c) public road safety
education and campaign through mass
media; (d) implementation of road
safety action plan; (e) computerizing
the Golden Quadrilateral national
highway asset inventory; (f) CMUs
consultant service; (g) a cross-state
border road efficiency study; and (h)
project preparation and sector studies.
Total Project Costs                 750.10       99.2    583.10       99.0
Front-end fee                     5.90       0.8       5.90        1.0
Total Financing Required                   756.00      100.0    589.00      100.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The GTRIP seeks to support NHAI's long term transition from an agency focusing on the delivery
of national highway infrastructure to the one that will effectively manage the provision,
maintenance and operation of national highway assets on business principles. The recently
completed institutional development study proposed an Institutional Development Strategy and a
range of actions to improve NHAI efficiency and effectiveness. The TNHP will finance the
implementation of immediate and short-term actions, which mainly focus on NHAI's capacity in
project implementation, highway operation and maintenance, and on MORTH's capacity in overall
planning, policy and regulations. The GTRIP focuses on institutional strengthening actions that
would expand or complement the similar actions supported by TNHP. The main policies and
institutional reforms supported under the TNHP and GTRIP as well as ADB's WTCP include: (a)
keeping the NHAI lean by outsourcing to the private sector most of NHAI's functions related to
design, construction, maintenance, operation, and collection of road network infornation and
condition data; (b) making NHAI more responsive and accountable to users and stakeholders; (c)
making NHAI more autonomous and financially independent; and (d) leveraging NHAI's limited
resources with private financing to promote public-private partnerships in financing roads along
viable corridors.
Moreover, the GTRIP will support two policy oriented studies: (i) a study on the poverty impact
of highway development that will lay the ground work for measuring the impact of highway
development on poverty reduction and on other social dimensions, so as to enhance NHAI's
capacity to address highway project related poverty issues; and (ii) a national highway transport
efficiency study that aims at consensus building for removing the freight traffic delays caused by
cross-state border inspection and taxation. As part of the agreed institutional strengthening action
plan between the Bank and ADB, ADB will support four key studies under the WTCP, namely (i)
study of bond issues by NHAI and lessons learned; (ii) securitization study and development of an
action plan for NHAI; (iii) a study to enhance NHAI's treasury functions; and (iv) a study of toll
systems.
Road safety is another key policy area for intervention. Although both the Bank-financed Second
National Highway Project and TNHP have a road safety component, road safety is still very much
a "green" area for urgent public action, largely due to the rapidly growing magnitude of the
problem. The GTRIP will support the implementation of a comprehensive road safety action
plan, training, public education and campaign, as well as safety audit and hazardous location
improvement works.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
The major benefits include: (a) a reduction in transport costs, which will directly lower the
economic costs of goods and services, widen markets, and promote regional trade and private
business growth; (b) a reduction in road accidents and improved ability to alleviate the impact of
traffic accidents, which will have significant implication to public health improvement and poverty
reduction; (c) improved efficiencies in the utilization of public resources in the form of higher
level of output per unit agency cost; and (d) greater participation of private sector in the provision
of highway infrastructure and services.
The project will directly benefit the users of the national highways, roadside communities and
businesses, and the cities, towns and rural areas directly served by the project roads. These
benefits are mostly in the forn of (a) increased accessibility to markets, resources, jobs,
education, and health services, (b) improved security against economic shocks through access to
alternative jobs and to emergency services, and (c) more job opportunities from the civil works
during the project implementation and maintenance. These benefits will be measured through a
project component--a study of the poverty impact of highway development--which will collect
baseline and follow-up data for monitoring socioeconomic impacts, especially poverty impacts.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is prepared and will be implemented by NHAI with extensive outsourcing to the
private sector and close coordination with the states of UP, Bihar, and Jharkhand. Within NHAI,
implementation of the major works components is under the direct responsibility of a Chief
General Manager, supported by 5 Project Directors on site, each in charge of one of the 5
construction packages. High-level State Project Coordinating Committees have been established
in each of the three states to facilitate land acquisition, resettlement, utility shifting, forestry and
other issues which may require coordination between NHAI and the states. Responsibility for
land acquisition and resettlement and financing of all project-related costs will remain with NHAI.
NHAI has taken on state PWD engineers on deputation as well as specialists in environment, land
acquisition, social and financial management to assist with project implementation.
The road safety component will involve NHAI, MORTH and the states where the project roads
are located. While MORTH will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the
component, NHAI will be responsible for the procurement activities of the component. The
cross-state border road efficiency study will be conducted under the general guidance of
MORTH, and NHAI will be responsible for the procurement of consultant services.
Accounting and Internal Control Arrangements: NHAI has decentralized accounting
arrangements. Its on site project management teams prepare monthly trial balances which are sent
to the headquarters. All projects are supervised by independent professional construction
supervision consultants. The contractor's bills are checked by the consultants in addition to
ensuring quality control. Bills are also checked by NHAI technical and accounts staff before
making payments to contractors. The process of development of the computerized integrated
financial management system initiated for TNHP, being implemented by NHAI, is now in
- 10-



advanced stages and the system and its scope has now been widened to cover all NHAI activities
and will not be limited to project related accounting. NHAI has a strong team of finance
professionals who will coordinate the consolidation and subrnission of reimbursement claims for
the project. The internal audit function will be re-established and will assist management in
improving financial management functions. They will also assist NHAI to update the manual on
operational accounting policies and procedures.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Some of the project alternatives considered were discussed in Section B-3.
Specific Investment Loan (SIL) vs. Adaptable Program Loan (APL). SIL is considered
appropriate for this project, as the major physical investment of the project and its implementation
timetable are clearly defined by the client. APL was considered as an alternative to support GOI's
NHDP, but it was rejected on the ground that SIL is a better, more focused alternative for
addressing highway development related resettlement and relocation issues in India at this stage.
Moreover, the Bank's assistance to GOI's NHDP adopts a programmatic approach through a
series of SILs. The long term commitment of this approach can provide the leverage and time
frame needed to build step-by-step a program with stronger policy content in the sector. The
project is designed to further enhance the institutional policy objectives of the TNHP and
strengthen NHAI's planning, implementation and management capacity which at present would
not be considered adequate for undertaking APLs. Similarly, subsequent national highway
projects could be built upon the achievement of the objecti-ves of this project.
4-Laning vs. expressway. GOI recognizes that the development of an expressway network is
necessary in the medium term for supporting trade and economic growth. However, land
acquisition for expressway construction is extremely difficult and is expected to be very
time-consuming. Four-laning mainly within the existing right-of-way is thus considered to be a
reasonable compromise for meeting the urgent need for highway capacity, and is found to be
economically attractive. Moreover, four-laning is considered to be necessary for reducing the
friction between fast and slow vehicles. Expressway development requires careful planning and
strong institutional capacity to address environmental and social issues. Enhancing NHAI's
capabilities in these areas is supported by the institutional strengthening component of this
project.
National highways vs. state highways. Additional capacity is required for both national
highway and state highway networks. This project focuses on the national highways in parallel
with the Bank's state highway program in India. This project is also considered to be a timely
vehicle to help the central government implement urgent actions for road safety. Given the
magnitude of the road safety issues in India, public actions are required at both national and state
levels, but the central govermment road agency should act as a national champion for road safety
initiatives.
-1 1



Upgrading vs. maintenance. The national highway services can be improved through capacity
upgrading, better maintenance, or a combination of both. This project focuses on upgrading
works because improving road surface condition through clearance of maintenance backlog on the
core national highways would not be sufficient for achieving the level of service required by the
current and future levels of traffic. However, the project addresses the highway maintenance
issue through support to the Corridor Management Units which will test the alternative
maintenance contracts with the private sector. Moreover, the institutional development
framework agreed among NHAI, ADB, and the Bank sets forth a market-oriented approach for
improving the maintenance practice, mainly through performance-based O&M contracts with the
private sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           j           Project                  (PSR) Ratings
__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _   ____   _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Ba k f n n ed p o e t
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
COMPLETED or ONGOING
- Construction/rehabilitation of rural   Bihar Rural Roads Project    U             U
roads                              (Cr. 1072-IN)
- Construction/rehabilitation of rural   Gujarat Rural Roads Project  S             S
roads                              (Cr. 1757-IN)
- Capacity expansion of national   First National Highways            U             U
highway. Four laning and strengthening Project (Ln.2534-IN)
in four states
- Capacity expansion of state roads and States' Road Project          U             U
institutional development of state road  (Ln.2994-IN, Cr.1959-IN)
agencies
- Capacity expansion of national   Second National Highways           S             S
highways and institutional         Project (Ln.3470, Cr.2365-IN),
strengthening of MORTH and NHAI   and Third National Highways
Project (Ln.4559-IN)
- Enhancement of institutional capacity State Roads Infrastructure    S             HS
to prepare projects at the state-level    Development Technical
Assistance (Ln.4114-lN)
- Capacity expansion, maintenance and Andhra Pradesh State Highway    S             HS
institutional development of state road  Project (Ln.4192-lN)
agency
Gujarat State Highway Project     S              S
(Ln 4577-IN)
Karnataka State Highways
Improvement Project (Ln
4606-rN)
- 12 -



- Widening and strengthening of two    Infrastructure Leasing &     S            S
state roads in Gujarat in a commercial  Financial Services (Ln
format: Vadodara - Halol SH and   3992-IN; Cr. 2838-IN)
Ahmedabad - Mahesana SH
PLANNED                           Proposed Kerala, Uttar
- Capacity expansion and maintenance  Pradesh, Mizoram, Tamil
of state roads and institutional  Nadu, Orissa and Rajasthan
development of state road agencies  State Highways projects
(FY2001-03)
- Capacity expansion of national  Fifth National Highway Project
highways and institutional strengthening (FY2003)
of NHAI/MORTH
Other development agencies
ONGOING
ADB - Capacity expansion of national First Highway Project, Second
highways and institutional strengthening Highway Project, National
of NHAI/MORTH                     Highway Project, and
Surat-Manor Tollway Project.
- Japanese Bank for International  Yamuna Bridge Project,
Cooperation (formerly OECF) -     National Highway Project.
Capacity expansion of national
highways and institutional strengthening
of NHAI/MORTH
- ADB - TA for preparation of national Western National Highway
highway project                   Corridor Study 1998/99
- ADB - TA for preparation of     West Bengal, North-South
investment plan and strategy for the    Corridor Development, 1998/99
north-south corridor development in
West Bengal
PLANNED
ADB - Capacity expansion of national Proposed Western Transport
highways and institutional strengthening Corridor Project, 2001,
of NHAI/MORTH                     National Highway Corridor I &
lI, 2002 and 2003
ADB - Capacity expansion of state  Proposed Madhya Pradesh
highways and institutional strengthening State Highway Project, 2002
of state road agency
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 13 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
To varying degrees all projects initiated before the mid-i 990s have suffered from (a) poor quality
at entry and, in one case, long delay for start-up; (b) weak institutional capacities for project
management, and contract and consultant services administration; (c) inexperience in Bank's
procurement methods; (d) inadequate inter-agency coordination; (e) inordinate delays in handing
over project sites; (f) weak contractor capabilities and inadequate consultant capacity; (g)
excessive delays due to weak dispute resolution and decision mechanisms and also due to belated
payments to contractors; and (h) lack of awareness and low degree of acceptance towards
integration of environment and social issues in technical design.
A great deal of the above issues have been addressed during the preparation and implementation
of the TNHP. For the current project, key aspects of the preparation process have included:
*  Substantial attention to the implementation progress for TNHP.
*  Much stronger engineering preparation using international consultants, larger construction
packages and more thorough contractor prequalification. Very high degree of readiness
for implementation would be achieved prior to loan approval, with all engineering designs
completed and bids invited.
*  Much stronger processes for environmental assessment, stakeholder consultation, land
acquisition and resettlement, and government clearances. Full site readiness of substantial
reaches of each package (sections to be handed over to the contractor on mobilization)
will be a condition of contract award.
*  Support and facilitate NHAI's effort to attract international road construction contractors
to work in India in order to promote competition and technological improvement of
India's construction industry.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GTRIP and TNHP support GOI's NHDP, which was proposed by the Prime Minister's
Taskforce in 1998, and is GOI's top priority infrastructure investment program. The Prime
Minister took a comprehensive review of the program on May 26, 2000. NHAI has demonstrated
strong borrower commitment and ownership through: (a) the successful preparation of the TNHP
and GTRIP; (b) the satisfactory progress made so far in the implementation of TNHP; and (c) the
agency's performance in the improvement of institutional capabilities during the last few years.
The TNHP became effective in October 2000. Since then, the agency has made significant
progress in the procurement of civil works and consultant services, and in the institutional
arrangement for implementing the project-related safeguard policies. Civil works contracts for
over 70% of the total scope of the project have been awarded and mobilized. All these
experiences will be directly beneficial to the implementation of the GTRIP. NHAI has also made
significant effort in the preparation of the GTRIP, especially the social and environmental
safeguard measures.
- 14 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The most important contribution of the Bank in this sector is the knowledge of effective
institutions, policies, financing and implementation mechanisms in other parts of the world, and
experience with analysis of economic, social, environmental and poverty impacts of project. This
project focuses on the strengths and weaknesses of current practices in the sector, and will
mobilize technical expertise in examining and experimenting new approaches. Many of the
procedures which have been put in place during the preparation of TNHP and the current project
are now being adopted by NHAI for all of its project preparation activities, including
procurement, engineering, environment, land acquisition, resettlement, construction supervision
and dispute resolution practices.
The Bank has been supporting NHAI's institutional development, and more broadly, facilitating
the exchange of information between central government, states and the private sector.
Continued involvement of the Bank will facilitate institutional reforms in sound business
management, accountability and responsiveness to external stakeholders (including prompt and
accurate financial reporting consistent with national accounting standards), improved management
of road assets and traffic flow efficiency and safety, and better planning, policy and regulatory
capacity. The Bank is a key partner of the Global Road Safety Partnership, and has comparative
advantage in providing technical assistance for road safety.
The Bank's financial participation is also important to the implementation of India's NHDP, before
a more sustainable financial mechanism is developed for national highway development and
maintenance. The project will not only provide needed funding, but also help mobilize other
financial sources through support to the public-private partnership.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPVUS$908 million; ERR = 25.9 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The highway upgrading component including contingencies represents 90% of the total project
cost. Benefits were determined from savings in road user costs due to improved pavement
condition, reduced traffic congestion, and increased separation of fast and slow moving traffic,
and from savings in future maintenance costs arising from timely rehabilitation. The economic
analysis was based on the well-established Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
(HDM-III) developed by the Bank. Traffic volumes on the 7 selected packages ranged from
6,000 to 21,000 vehicles per day, including 65% to 90% trucks and buses. Various investment
alternatives were examined in terms of number of lanes, pavement type and strength, service roads
and bypasses. For the selected alternatives, the analysis showed Economic Rates of Return
(ERR) of 16.7% to 45.3% with an overall rate of return of 25.9% and Net Present Value of US$
908 million. If benefits are reduced by 20% and costs increased by 20%, the overall rate of return
- 15-



is 19.3%. A switching values analysis indicates that the cost of highway upgrading works would
have to increase by 175% or the benefits to drop by 64% before the NPV would fall to zero.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=JUS$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NHDP is the major expenditure program for the national highways for the next few years till
2008. It includes the upgrading of 13,000 km. core national highways and its total costs are
estimated to be US$12 billion. NHAI is entrusted to deliver the program. NHAI was established
under the 1988 National Highways Authority of India Act, and became operational in 1995. The
Act requires NHAI to act on business principles in the discharge of its functions. The sources of
NHAI funding include normal government budget, fuel levies (cess), bonds, tolls, and loans.
Levies of Rs. 1 per liter on petrol and diesel are collected under the Central Road Fund which was
created through the Parliament legislation. A fixed share of the cess revenues is allocated to
NHAI. It amounts to Rs 2,000 crores (or equivalent of US$ 435 million) in 2000/01, and is
expected to increase with total cess revenues. For externally financed projects, NHAI will get
80% of the external assistance as grant from GOI, and 20% as loan that NHAI will be required to
pay back to GOI, presumably through incomes generated from tolls, agency fee, etc. Moreover,
all counterpart fund will come from NHAI's fund (mainly the cess).
NHAI currently has few independent assets and little independent revenues. There will be a
financial gap between NHAI's current fund and the NHDP financial requirement. The gap is
expected to be closed by borrowing, tolls, and private investment. The key is to develop a
sustainable national highway financial mechanism. GOI is taking initial steps in this direction. For
example, a cess of Rs. 1 per liter on petrol and diesel was introduced by GOI in 1999. The
revenues are earmarked as dedicated fund for the development and maintenance of national, state,
and rural road infrastructure. A substantial portion of the revenues is allocated to NHAI for
national highway development. With the assistance from ADB, NHAI is exploring various
financial instruments (including bond issues, securitization, and toll systems) that would enable the
agency to be more financially independent. A Rs 500 crores (or equivalent of US$ 110 million)
National Highway Bond was recently issued. NHAI is also examining a market-oriented
approach for funding road maintenance, possibly through performance-based O&M contracts
with the private sector.
The substantial investment to be supported under the project is unlikely to crowd-out private fund
for road investment, as private road financing is still at the experimental stage, and would not be
mobilized fast enough to fund the urgently needed highway capacity. The project supports a
public-private partnership for a BOT project, which is designed to attract additional resources
from the private sector. It is a pilot project expected to provide demonstration effect that would
stimulate greater private sector financing.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be minimal, as GOI has made budget commitment
to the NHDP and necessary policy provision to NHAI to tap other financial sources. Moreover,
the budget commitment to the maintenance and development of the national highways is made in
- 16 -



a fixed portion of the total cess revenues which are expected to grow with increasing
motorization. The current cess revenues allocated to the entire national highway system (under
MORTH and NHAI) amount to US$750 million a year.
3. Technical:
Capacity and safety of the project roads will be substantially improved through widening from
two lanes to divided carriageways with at least four lanes and paved shoulders. Bypasses, service
roads, grade separated intersections, raised embankments and provision for pedestrians and local
traffic are provided as required to meet local conditions. Preparation studies considered
pavement alternatives of asphalt or cement concrete, and proposed a combination of the two, with
additional provisions for strengthening quality oversight for newly introduced construction
methods. Safety audit will be performed on the engineering design of all project roads and the
design will be modified according to the safety audit recommendations. The management of
mixed traffic to achieve traffic efficiency and safety after the 4-laning will be carried out through
the corridor management program to be supported by the project and facilitated in township areas
by provision of parallel service lanes.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
NHAI's capability to implement the current project, including environment and social safeguard
policies, has been greatly strengthened through the implementation of the TNHP.
4.2 Project management:
The capacity of NHAI for project management will be further strengthened through project
preparation and especially the implementation of TNHP. NHAI has mobilized a strong team in
headquarters and on site to work closely with consultants and local authorities during project
preparation, and this will continue during the implementation phase. Additional skills in land
acquisition, environment, resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R), and financial management are
being built up.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No significant procurement issues are expected at this stage. If any issues emerge, they will be
addressed based on the actual experience from the TNHP.
4.4 Financial management issues:
NHAI is also implementing the TNHP. The assessment and review of the financial management
arrangements for the implementation of this project have focused primarily on the follow-up on
actions agreed during the earlier appraisal.
The key issues that have been identified are as follows:
*  There has been little opportunity to establish the adequacy of the financial management
arrangements as no reimbursement claims or project management reports have been received
by the Bank for the TNHP.
- 17 -



* NHAI will seek the assistance of the internal auditors to be appointed to update accounting
manual and merge it with financial management manual (first draft to be prepared by
December 31, 2001).
* The computerized Project Financial Management System (PFMS) is in advanced stage of
preparation. The PFMS will ensure that the project-specific financial reporting system is the
product of mainstream accounting systems, and not limited to meeting just the Bank's
requirement.
* The current business and accounting practices do not allow NHAI to work out project wise
under or over absorption of their indirect costs. These costs are not directly allocated or
attributed to projects but charged off to Profit & Loss Account to offset against agency
commission income. It also implies that this percentage of works, capitalized as assets (as
NHAI is the owner of the works) is treated as revenue income in the Profit & Loss Account.
This is contrary to standard accepted accounting practices. It is recommended that NHAI
review this policy at the earliest.
* NHAI has not had internal audit done (except the internal reviews carried out by their own
staff) since 1998-99. NHAI is currently in the process of preparing a short list of firms of
chartered accountants to undertake the internal audit for the year 2001-2002.
NHAI is audited by the Controller & Auditor General of India (C&AG). NHAI needs to initiate
discussions with the C&AG on ways to streamline the entire audit process in order to meet the
time frame. NHAI will carry out a time-bound action plan detailed in Annex 6 for the
strengthening of the agency's financial management system. NHAI will work with a firm of
chartered accountants to assist in the consolidation and finalization of the accounting statements
by August 15, 2001, to meet the Bank's timeline for submission of audited statements and report.
Moreover, NHAI intends to convert its current disbursement system to the Project Management
Report (PMR) based disbursement by January 1, 2003.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Base EAs of the GTRIP and TNHP, together, from Agra to Barwa Adda section of the NlI-2,
were carried out during 1998-2000. The approach adopted was a reiterative one in which
environmental issues were identified in successive levels of detail and specificity at each step in the
process, and feedback from the stakeholders and public consultation process was incorporated.
Analysis of alternatives, community consultation and stakeholder involvement were key steps in
the EA process. Since the beginning with TNHP, the EA process of the GTRIP has evolved, and
addressed the potential impacts and mitigation measures in greater details. The Consolidated E1A
for the GTRIP and the 7 contract (package) specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
address impacts and propose adequate mitigation and environmental enhancement measures. An
independent review summarizes that the EA and the EMPs adequately address the Bank's
environment and social safeguard policies.
- 18 -



Key Environment Issues: Besides construction related impacts, the project may also lead to
potential impacts from induced development especially along the bypasses, in the Gautam Buddha
Wild life Sanctuary, and the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ). To address any unforeseen impacts on
the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary and the TTZ, a contingent fund of US$1.5 million is made
available in case of need for further impact study and implementation of further mitigation
measures.
The TTZ covers an area of about 10,400 km and has been identified as the zone of influence for
the protection of the Taj Mahal from pollution sources, especially air. Package I-A of the GTRIP
traverses the TTZ (and the west end of Package I-B touches the TTZ), although at its nearest, it
is more than 10 km. away from the Taj Mahal or any other World Heritage sites, within the zone.
The GTRIP is in confornity with the TTZ Development Plan, which envisages highway widening
to ease traffic congestion and reduce pollution (the initial 22 km. of Package I-A will be 6-laned,
and the remaining 4-laned). Additional mitigation measures in the EMP include 10 m thick band
of roadside plantation on either side of the highway. A detailed landscape plan has been prepared.
Due to intense agricultural activities in the region, natural forests along the project road have long
been removed except in some parts such as Agra Reserved forest area (Package I-A, for a 2 km.
stretch), and the Kaimur Hills forest area (Package IV-C). The project acquires 0.5 ha. of the
Agra Reserved forest area (Package I-A), and 2.35 ha. of the Kaimur Hills forest area (Package
IV-C). The Agra reserved forest is a degraded area, the green cover is thin, and is used as a
garbage dumping site. The Kaimur Hills Forest has been already reduced from dry deciduous to
scrub land. The EMP for Packages I-A and IV-C propose, in addition to compensatory
afforestation, physical barriers to prevent any further dumping of wastes; closing access for
trucks; regular policing and patrolling to prevent unwarranted intrusion in forest areas.
Package VB passes through 36.4 km. of protected forest area, 18 km. of which is through the
Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary (no forest land is proposed to be acquired for the project).
The sanctuary exists in two parts on either side of the road, with the road passing through the
buffer zone (400 m on either side of the highway had been designated as buffer when the
sanctuary was established. The road existed since the medieval age, and the area was declared as
a sanctuary in the 1 970s). During the EA process, consultations included inputs from the
community as well as forestry and wildlife specialists. The EMP incorporates the Sanctuary
Management Plan, developed by the Department of Forest and Wildlife. The EMP measures
include check dams, water holes, screen plantation, animal underpasses, check posts, noise
control, signage, closure of unregulated access for trucks, prohibition on extracting construction
materials from within the sanctuary area. Adequate resources have been allocated for
implementation of these measures, including an additional sum of INR 5 million to be transferred
to the sanctuary authorities linked to the progress of the implementation of the Sanctuary
Management Plan. At the Project Management Unit (PMU) an additional Manager
(Environment) will be specially deputed for coordinating implementation of the EMP for Package
V-B. A coordination committee is being constituted to oversee implementation of the EMP for
Package V which includes mitigation measures specifically related to the project area. In
- 19-



concurrence with other relevant agencies, NHAI will issue the order creating the committee by
July 31, 2001. Release of funds to the contractors will be linked to implementation progress in
performance indicators agreed in the Bills of Quantities for all works undertaken. The NHAI
Environmental Manager will be responsible for monitoring and oversight. The coordination
committee will recommend whether further mitigation measures/additional funds will be
necessary, and in consultation with the Bank, NHAI will decide on fund allocation from the
aforementioned contingent fund of US$1.5 million.
The EA has studied the potential of induced development in detail, and identified the highway
stretches which would be subjected to successive levels of urban-industrial development pressure
in future. The EA desegregated these highway stretches into 8 different policy zones for
controlled/guided development, and sets of policies for each zone have been prepared. Effective
control of ribbon development is an interdepartmental issue and is beyond just NHAI's purview.
However, budget allocation has been made in the EMPs to enable a policy dialogue at GOI level
and NHAI. The Corridor Management Units, proposed as part of the project will coordinate
these development controls.
Construction related issues and impacts: Improvement of the proposed highway is restricted to
the existing right-of-way, except in the case of the 15 bypasses. The project requires a large
volume of material excavation, procurement and transport; use of potable water (for concrete
pavement); setting up of stone-crushers, hot-mix plants and concrete batch plants, transport and
round-the-clock laying of concrete, etc. Additional impacts will result from spills of oil, fuel,
lubricants and bitumen, and operation of borrow areas, quarries and construction camps. These
impacts will be managed by implementation of the EMPs, which contain good environmental
management and mitigation measures, conservation and prevention measures, redevelopment
plans and a substantial tree plantation program.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Detailed EMPs include implementation schedule, monitoring program, budget, institutional
arrangements, and integration of the proposed mitigation measures into the contract. The EMP
measures include road landscape and plantation; preventive measures for minimizing
air/noise/water pollution; protection and restoration of surface water bodies (cascades,
silt-fencing, sedimentation chambers, oil interceptors), groundwater recharging pits; gabion
structures, turfing, reinforced earth walls and brick/stone pitching to prevent erosion;
conservation and redevelopment borrow areas; use of fly ash; noise enforcement measures and
noise barriers (especially in front of schools and hospitals); provision of underpasses for
livestock/animals; and pedestrian and other local facilities, etc. NHAI's Roadside Tree Plantation
Strategy covers all plantation regimes (compensatory, roadside, median, and possibility of
transplantation), coordination of NHAI with the Forest department including management of
funds.
Each EMP contains enhancement plans for several sites (altogether about 100), which are
important from environmental, ecological or community point of view. All enhancement plans are
complete with implementation designs and bill of quantities.
- 20 -



As part of the evolving EA process since TNHP, the consolidated EA for GTRIP also addresses
issues such as gender in construction management (including involving women as managers
during construction) and health issues such as the spread of HIV/AIDS. The EMPs provide such
recommendations that are in the purview of the project and can be facilitated or coordinated by
NHAI, such as a health management plan at the construction site, and safety plan during
construction.
The EMPs also provide for further and contingency actions. A pilot study on HIV is proposed.
The project also includes a road safety component and involves a road safety audit of the
engineering designs. With respect to Forests and Protected areas, major efforts are being made by
NHAI through EMPs to revitalize these areas within the Corridor of impact. In particular, NHAI
has provided US$1.5 million under the GTRIP for additional safeguard measures. This fund will
be made available in case of need for further study and mitigation measures relating to the TTZ
and the Gautam Buddha Sanctuary.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 2001 (Consolidated EA and
EMPs for selected contract packages)
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Since the project has been developed through a participatory process, stakeholder consultations
were carried out as part of the Environment and Social Assessment process at different stages
during project preparation and will continue through the rest of the project cycle. This has been
documented in the EA report in the Chapter on Community Consultations. In the same token,
NHAI will be conducting workshops in March 2001 to build further consensus to involve the
people in implementation of the EMPs that have been developed.
Community consultation was carried out at the Screening, Feasibility and during the
Social/Environment Assessment of the project. The different consultation means included
door-to-door personal interviews, village meetings, focus group discussions, and consultation
with experts and NGOs working in the area. Additionally, various stakeholders were consulted (in
13 separate consultation sessions) and as per the GOI, MOEF guidelines, 9 district level public
hearings were conducted.
The key stakeholders consulted were the urban, semi-urban and rural people, some of them who
may lose land or properties; communities, which may be impacted by increased traffic and safety
concerns; and hospitals, schools, and libraries, which may be impacted; road users including road
user associations; government officials from the line departments; local government agencies
including village level 'panchayats'; NGOs and community based organizations (CBOs) working
in the region; experts including forestry, wildlife and environmental professionals.
- 21 -



The Base EAs were disclosed by NHAI in March 2000 to the Public in the affected districts. The
Consolidated EA and the EMPs for the GTRIP have been disclosed at project affected sites and
the Bank's Project Information Center (PIC) both in Washington and New Delhi in January 2001.
Further details on consultations are described ahead in Section 6.2 and 6.3.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environnment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Institutional measures: Independent consultants, procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) will act as the Supervision Consultants (SC) or Engineers, and will be responsible
for implementing and monitoring all aspects of the project. Four such consultants will be
engaged, each with an Environmental Specialist. The PMUs of NHAI will be staffed, among
others, with Managers (Environment). The Environment and Social Management Unit at the
NHAI Corporate Office will coordinate the implementation of environmental components of the
project. Training of the NHAI staff, the SC and the Contractors' personnel will be undertaken as
per the training plan prepared as part of the EMPs. The training plan considers immediate and
construction related, medium-term and long-term environmental issues in highway development
program.
Monitoring: Day-to-day monitoring of the project is the responsibility of the SC. Further
monitoring by the PMU and the NHAI Corporate is proposed. Detailed monitoring and reporting
formats have been prepared, covering all aspects of the EMPs. During construction period, the
contractor will report to the SC once a month on implementation of the EMPs, and compliance.
Similarly, the SC will report to the PMU every month, and the PMU will submit quarterly reports
to the NHAI Corporate. Quarterly reports will be submitted by the NHAI to the Bank.
Environment performance indicators have been developed to reflect the objectives and results of
the EA in the EMP. To ensure effective monitoring of the EMPs, monitoring formats include
monitoring of performance indicators, as part of the supervision strategy for the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to result in social benefits through improved access and linkages of
backward areas. It involves Resettlement & Relocation (R&R) of affected and displaced
titleholders, squatters and encroachers. A social irnpact assessment has been carried out during
the project preparation, consisting of the following: (i) early screening as part of project feasibility
studies; (ii) public consultation; (iii) preparation of a project specific R&R entitlement framework
consistent with GOI's and the Bank's Operational Directives (OD) 4.30 and 4.20; (iv) census and
baseline socioeconomic survey of the potentially affected population; and (v) preparation of a
time-bound RAP.
A full census was undertaken to document the status of the potentially affected population within
the project impact area, with respect to their assets and sources of livelihood. This provided the
basis for establishing a cut-off date for determining who may be entitled to relocation assistance
or other benefits from the project. A detailed socioeconomic survey of a sample of the potentially
- 22 -



affected population was also carried out to develop the monitoring and evaluation parameters and
to develop the database. This survey also provided a baseline against which mitigation measures
and support will be measured and includes a comprehensive examination of people's assets,
incomes, important cultural or religious networks or sites, and other sources of income such as
dependence on common property resources. An analysis of survey results included a gender
analysis and examined the needs and resources of different groups and individuals, including
intra-household issues.
Acquisition of agricultural land and residential and commercial structures will be required for the
upgrading and widening of the road, to the extent that either resettlement or relocation is
necessary for the affected people. In some cases small portions of roadside dwellings and
businesses will be affected due to widening the legal right of way (ROW). In all cases, however,
compensation and assistance will be provided depending on the status and extent of the property
taken. A total of 622 hectares (see table below) of land is required for widening the existing
alignment and for 13 bypasses. The additional land required by the project falls under two
classifications: (a) public land owned by the Departments of State Government and village level
institutions; and (b) private land. A concerted effort by NHAI will be required to carry out the
land acquisition according to the plan for the project, where the ROW to accommodate the
proposed highway improvements in some alignments is not present, not sufficient, or not
available. The process of land acquisition has been initiated by the NHAI under the National
Highway Act and Land Acquisition Act.
Project-affected families and land required for each contract package
Contract   Families    Families      Families       Land to be     Land to be
affected   Displaced     Displaced       Acquired     Transferred*
Titleholder  Non-titleholder    (ha)           (ha)
I - A         1,125          307             336         71.08
I - B         1,713          397             40         103.33
I - C         1,764          690             143        216.41
II - B        1,347           21            1007         13.82            8.20
IV - A        1,089          568            274          24.75            6.72
IV - C        3,851        2,696              76        124.15           15.45
V-B             176           23              36         47.82           12.88
TOTAL        11,155        4,702            1912        622.36           43.80
* Includes government vested land and forest land.
- 23 -



Resettlement is required where residential and/or commercial buildings must either be fully
demolished or made uninhabitable. Relocation is required for displaced residents or affected
businesses of these buildings and other public and religious buildings and structures.
Rehabilitation will be required where resettlement relocation or other project impacts result in lost
livelihood or income. Emphasis has been given to identify alternate land since majority of the
people displaced will lose their agricultural land and for restoration of livelihood (annexl 1). In all
cases, it will be necessary to restore the economic status of affected persons to at least pre-project
levels or better. The displaced vulnerable people will receive the alternate land for agriculture,
house and shop free of cost and the non-vulnerable will purchase it with the compensation and the
assistance received to meet the replacement cost for the assets acquired.
NHAI prepared the R&R policy that includes an entitlement framework consistent with the Bank's
O.D. 4.30 and O.D. 4.20 to deal with land acquisition and other potential adverse social impacts
of the project. This was cleared by NHAI and endorsed by the Bank. The R&R policy addresses
the nature of entitlements to be given to titleholders, all squatters and vulnerable encroachers.
Moreover additional support will be extended under the R&R policy to achieve reduction and
equity. Following consultations, a framework has been developed which distinguishes between
compensation in cases of land acquisition or other losses of private property, and rehabilitation
and assistance given to all the affected people. Additional support has been provided to
vulnerable poor that also includes women headed households. To ensure property rights to
women altemate plots provided for rehabilitation will be registered on joint names along with
their spouses. The same policy will be applied for section III B and Etawah by-pass of
approximately 13 km, that are excluded from the proposed GTRIP. A consolidated Resettlement
Action Plan was prepared on the basis of individual RAPs that provides detailed mechanism for
implementing the provisions of the R&R policy and was approved by NHAI. The Bank will
endorse the document.
The prime considerations during project preparation were to avoid or minimize negative impact
on the people/communities due to land acquisition within the limitations of technical requirements
and cost effectiveness. Impacts have been avoided by lateral shifting of the proposed alignment
depending upon the availability of land. The participatory planning with people has helped in
minimizing losses, saving residential/commercial structures, cultural properties and community
infrastructure. As far as possible concentric widening has been adopted in the built-up stretches,
raised carriageways were incorporated wherever possible on bypasses and along the corridor to
minimize impact on properties or to avoid land acquisition.
The social impact assessment for 422.78 km. project roads identified 11,155 project affected
families that includes 8441 titleholders and 2,714 non-titleholders. Out of the total number of
affected families 6,614 will be displaced that includes 4,702 titleholders and 1912 non-titleholders
(see the above table). The figures in correlation with the quantity of land to be acquired indicate
that majority of the affected and displaced are due to acquisition of agricultural land. Further
details are given in the Executive Summary. Since the proposed project is to upgrade the existing
two lane to four lane within the existing right of way to the extent feasible, the project will not
have an impact on tribal community or groups. However, there are 66 tribal families who will be
affected and are thinly spread over the entire length. The social impact assessment documented
- 24 -



the resource base of these families and their losses that is included in the RAP. The budgetary
provisions for tribals are included in the overall budget prepared for the implementation of RAP.
Others belonging to the vulnerable groups in particular those on the threshold of poverty line and
below it are given targeted support in the RAP in accordance with the policy. The data collected
is disaggregated for each recognized category vulnerable and non-vulnerable and contains
information about their socioeconomic status in the RAP.
No large-scale movements of groups of people are envisaged. However, resettlement sites will be
developed if more than 25 families are willing to settle in a cluster. The project will seek to
facilitate people's self-relocation by giving adequate resources and support, rather than developing
clustered resettlement sites.
Studies on HIV/AIDS highlight that the truckers are carriers of virus. With increase in traffic
with the proposed project, the risks related to sexually transmitted infection may spread. This
impact will be minimized through effective preventive plans for awareness building and facilitate
convergence of National and State Health programs and is included in the RAP. A pilot study has
been undertaken to identify sensitive locations through focus group discussions with truckers and
other high risk groups. Detailed plans to implement the preventive measures with the help of
NGOs have been prepared.
Another potentially negative social impact is the risk of road accidents associated with increased
traffic speeds. In number of places widening has been proposed to minimize the propensity of
accidents by proposing service roads. Underpasses have been provided to facilitate the people
living on either side of the road to have access to facilities and to avoid disruption of social
relations and network. This impact will be further minimized through a safety audit on the
engineering design of the project and recommendations will be implemented.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As per the framework developed in the R&R policy, NHAI carried out public and community
consultations as an integral part of the environmental and social assessment process with different
social groups and stakeholders at the village, district and state level throughout project
preparation. At the local level, group discussions, participatory mapping of the resources and
infrastructure, and other methods have been used. Through comprehensive screening and local
consultation, the project preparation has minimized cases where land acquisition may be required,
or where there may be other loses of assets or resources. These consultations helped to finalize
various issues like location of bus stops and religious structures, realignments and suggesting
measures for economic rehabilitation and new rehabilitation sites. The process ensures that the
affected population and other stakeholders are informed, consulted and allowed to participate
actively in the development process. Moreover, follow-up consultations were organized at
sensitive locations to disseminate the information about the final design and the details of the RAP
and the NHAI prepared a separate document on the subsequent consultations.
A number of workshops and consultation meetings have been held in the three states (Uttar
Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkand) with government representatives, consultants, project affected
- 25 -



people and environmental protection agencies to build consensus on project objectives, design and
implementation arrangements and discuss impacts and rehabilitation or mitigation measures. The
project proposes to further ensure community participation during implementation of the
provisions included in the RAP and the detailed mechanism is given in annex 11.
To further strengthen the participatory processes for institutionalizing transparency all payments
regarding compensation and assistance will be paid through checks in public meetings.
The R&R policy and the RAP have been made public through District offices and District Public
Libraries and Bank's Public Information Center. The R&R policy has been translated in local
language and will be distributed to the affected people during implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The R&R policy recognizes the importance of NGO involvement to facilitate the implementation
of RAP through a participatory process. The process of appointing the NGOs has been initiated
for the four packages. Their representatives will be members of District and Grievance Redress
Committees that have been set-up for implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
For implementation of RAP, state level committees set up for the entire project, will provide
guidance on land acquisition and R&R issues. The NHAI has created a Social and Environment
Cell at the corporate office, led by a General Manager and one R&R manager to coordinate the
resettlement activities of all packages. Five PMUs have been established on site for the five
packages. Each PMU has a project director and several line managers, including one in charge of
EA and R&R. They, along with the NGOs for each package will be responsible to implement the
RAP. District level committees have been set up to facilitate the acquisition proceedings and
R&R related issues. Grievance redress comnmittees have also been established in each district.
The organizational framework for the RAP agreed during appraisal has been adequately staffed.
To promote local capacity building, efforts have been made, during project preparation, to carry
out the work in collaboration with the consultants and the project authorities. An Orientation
training program has been organized and further five training modules have been developed that
includes exposure to similar projects and sharing of experiences that will be carried out during
project implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes'?
Monitoring arrangements and formats have been provided in the RAP. The NHAI will prepare
monthly and quarterly progress reports during the first year of the implementation and for the
remaining two years quarterly reports will be prepared to monitor the physical and financial
progress. Annual and mid-term evaluation will be undertaken to evaluate the processes adopted
during implementation of the proposed activities included in the RAP. An end term evaluation will
be carried out to evaluate the impact the project has had on the project-affected people in
- 26 -



achieving the objectives of the R&R policy. The NHAI will hire consultancy services to monitor
and evaluate the R&R component of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Polic                                    Applicabirit
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 * Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The NHAI has prepared the R&R policy that includes an entitlement framework consistent with
the Bank's O.D. 4.30 and O.D. 4.20 to deal with land acquisition and other potential adverse
social impacts of the investment program (see section 6.1).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Benefits of the project are likely to be sustained over time as the traffic volumes increase.
Nevertheless, a key factor will be NHAI's capacity to maintain and efficiently operate the newly
created road assets. The project will enhance this capacity through institutional strengthening,
promotion of private sector involvement, and assured funding mechanisms. Key issues are (a)
clarifying roles of NHAI, MORTH and the states; (b) establishing an overall strategy for national
highway spending; and (c) adequate funding for maintenance. The implementation of the
recommendations of the Institutional Strengthening study and Corridor Management study will be
critical for project benefits to sustain over a period of time. Recent increases in NHAI revenues
from levies on petrol and diesel fuel are also an important step.
- 27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colunmu of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Newly increased traffic capacity is not      M         Secured maintenance funding and strengthened
efficiently managed and maintained.                    maintenance practice.
NHAI and MORTH commitment on road            M         The progress will be closely monitored through
safety actions is weak.                                quarterly and supervision mission reports, and
the outcomes of road safety actions will be
sustained through NHAI organizational
restructuring that aims to effectively respond to
the needs of road users.
Private sector participation is not actively  M        While the risk is small, it could arise due to the
pursued through public-private                         slow response from the private sector. The risk
partnership.                                           could be mitigated through knowledge sharing
and option study to be funded by the project.
NHAI and MORTH's commitment to               M         The progress will be closely monitored through
policy and institutional reforms becomes               quarterly and supervision mission reports, and
weak.                                                  remedial actions taken as appropriate.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in procurement and award of           N         NHAI's function in procurement and contracting
contracts.                                             is being strengthened under TNHP.
Delays in site readiness, and                M         Adequate staffing, high-level committees, early
unsatisfactory implementation of RAP                   appointment of NGOs and monthly monitoring
and EMP.                                               of action plans.
Unsatisfactory consultant/contractor         M         Strict prequalification criteria, supervision by
performance, construction delays, quality              intemationally experienced consultants, large
problems and cost overrun.                             construction packages.
Current accounting policies undermine        M         Recognizing that this may be a hindrance, NHAI
NHAI objective of managing its resources               has initiated discussions with GOI in order to
on business principles                                 define accounting policies more clearly.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 28 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditions only
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. The NHAI will maintain state high-level Project Coordinating Committees in the States of Uttar Pradesh,
Bihar and Jharkhand to coordinate issues related to land acquisition, R&R, environment, and shifting of
utilities, supported by district level committees and grievance cells for land acquisition and R&R.
2. The NHAI will maintain the External Stakeholders Advisory Group, which will meet at least twice each
year to review the overall program and strategy being implemented under the project.
3. The NHAI will implement Resettlement Action Plans, Environmental Management Plans, and Tree
Plantation Strategy, to the satisfaction of the Bank.
4. Any other road works which might be proposed for implementation under the project (e.g. because of
unforeseen land acquisition or environmental constraints or to utilize cost savings) would be considered for
financing only after completion of Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Action Plan
satisfactory to the Bank.
5. The Bank's social and environmental safeguard policies would be applied to any BOT projects supported
under the project, and the EA and RAP be completed prior to financial closure that will be endorsed by the
NHAI and cleared by the Bank.
6. The NHAI will initiate the cross-state border road transport efficiency study by December 31, 2001.
7. The NHAI will produce annual reports on the condition of NHAI road network and projected future user
costs and projected asset condition with forecast levels of maintenance.
8. The NHAI will produce annual report on travel speeds and accidents on road stretches for the hazardous
location imnprovement work.
9. The NHAI will produce a quarterly report on implementation progress with agreed formnat presented in
the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, and mid-terrn review report after 24 months.
10. For the two road sections along the NH-2 corridor from Agra to Dhanbad (Allahabad section
and Etawah bypass) which are not included in the scope of the project, the NHAI will follow the
same approach to the preparation and implementation of safeguard policies on these stretches as
in the TNHP and GTRIP, and the EA, EMP and RAP for the Etawah bypass are subject to Bank
review and supervision.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project imnplementation.
- 29 -



E 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
n 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Zhi Liu                           Vincent G uarne                         Lim
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce highway            Increased traffic capacity and  Central government annual   Government remains
infrastructure bottlenecks to  improved traffic safety on    reports.           committed to sector reforms.
support poverty reduction and high-demand national
private sector-led economic   highway corridors.
growth
Expanded public-private   MORTH and NHAI reports.  Continued funding for the
partnership in encouraging                           National Highway
private investments on large                         Development Program.
BOT projects.
More effective institution for  The Bank CAS Progress  Increased delegation,
managing national highways. Reports.                 independence and public
accountability of NHAI.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Reduce transport constraints  Average vehicle travel time   Project evaluation reports.    Civil works are completed on
on national economic activity. along the national highway                       time and meet design
corridor between Delhi and                           standards, and maintenance
Calcutta reduced by 25-30%                           funding is secured.
from the current 4 to 5 days,
by end of project (EOP).
Improved institutional    Truck operating cost along    Mid-tern review (MTR)   Majority of the cost savings
capacity to manage road   the national highway corridor mission reports.        are captured by road users,
programs, assets, and     between Delhi and Calcutta                            consumers, and farmers.
services.                 reduced by 10% in real terms
from the current Rs. 1 1 per
kin, by EOP.
Incidence of road deaths  Implementation Completion   Relevant state governments
reduced by 20% on project    Reports (ICR).          are engaged in seeking
roads by end of project, by                          solutions to remove the
EOP.                                                 cross-state border barriers.
About 1,200 km of national   Annual road condition   Central government assumes
highways maintained under  surveys.                  a role as road safety champion
contract with the private                            and step up road safety
sector and managed by the                            actions.
Corridor Management Units
by EOP.
Annual surveys on delays and Central government continues
accidents.                to pursue PSD initiatives.
Strong NHAI and MORTH
commitment on policy and
institutional reforms
continues.
- 31 -



| Key Performance 
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Cost effective delivery of   1.1. Ex post ERRs of the 420  Quarterly progress reports;    Newly increased capacity is
increased traffic capacity and  km project roads are on                          efficiently managed and
improved quality of national  average above 26%.      Supervision mission reports;  maintained.
highways.
1.2. All civil work contracts   Disbursement reports;
delivered to time, budget, cost
and safety constraints.    User surveys conducted for
baseline, MTR, and EOP;
1.3. 100% delivery of
entitlements to PAFs and   Annual road condition survey;
restoration of common
property resources as and  Annual surveys on delays and
when planned in RAP.       accidents on NH-2.
1.4. All EMPs carried out in
accordance with contract
clauses.
1.5. Level of users'
satisfaction with road
infrastructure on project roads
increased.
2. Improved road safety,   2.1. Safety audit and                                 Both NHAI and MORTH
maintenance and management hazardous location                                    strongly commit to road
of national highways.     improvement works                                      safety.
conducted on selected sections
of NIHDP network.
2.2. A comprehensive road
safety action plan
implemented on a pilot basis.
2.3. Two new CMUs
established by MTR.
3. Expanded public-private   Public-private partnership                          NHAI and MORTH continue
partnership in promoting   successfully executed to                              to pursue various options for
private investment on large   support large scale (over 50                       encouraging greater private
BOT projects.              km) BOT projects.                                     sector participation in road
sector.
- 32 -



4. Improved institutional   4.1. All technical assistance                             Strong NHAI and MORTH
capacity in social and      in effect;                                               comrnitment on policy and
environmental aspects, road                                                          institutional reforms
safety, corridor management,  4.2. NHAI HQ and field office                          continues.
public-private partnership,    staff trained;
and managing traffic
efficiency.                 4.3. Options to eliminate
cross-state border freight
delays analyzed and policy
dialogue with relevant states
initiated;
4.4. Over 120,000 trees
planted by MTR and over
200,000 trees planted by EOP;
4.5. Over 70% tree survival
rate achieved by EOP.
- 33 -



000  7   0007--    I   7 Key'efiac  Performance..........v                        ,
Hierarchy of Objectives *         Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components         I Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Highway upgrading of 420  1. US$ 685.29 million    Quarterly progress reports;    Timely procurement and
km to 4-lanes or 6-lanes                               Supervision mission reports.  contract implementation;
including works, supervision,
land acquisition and                                                              Timely site readiness
resettlement, and                                                                 including land acquisition anid
environmental management.                                                         utility relocation;
Full implementation of
Resettlement Action Plan and
Environment Management
Plan;
Satisfactory contractor
performance.
2. Road safety and corridor   2. US$ 20.25 million    Quarterly progress reports;    MORTH support;
management works, including                            Supervision mission reports;
safety audit and hazardous                            Consultant studies on selected NHAI acts as the national
location improvement works                            topics.                     champion of road safety;
on existing national
highways, and CMU civil                                                           Active participation of NGOs
works.                                                                            and civil society.
3. Public sector participation, 3. US$ 25.55 million  Quarterly progress reports;    Government remains
including preparation and                             Supervision mission reports;  committed to implementing
implementation of a pilot                             Consultant studies on selected institutional reforms and
BOT project based on                                  topics.                     retains strong ownership of
competitive bid on                                                                action plans;
government financial support
requirements.
4. Institutional strengthening, 4. US$19.02 million                               Central Government assumes
including NHAI capacity                                                           a role as the facilitator for
building in social and                                                            cross-state policy dialogue.
environmental aspects, road
safety, and highway asset
inventory; an Interstate
Highway Transport Efficiency
Study; and project preparation
and studies.
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
By Component:
Project Component t - US$685.29 million
1. Highway Upgrading - $ 685.29 million, including contingencies. This includes:
(a) civil works for widening and strengthening of about 420 km of national highway from two
lanes to four-six lane divided carriageway with service roads where required in seven contract
packages ($590.41 million).
(b) supervision consultant services for civil works in four packages ($34.96 million).
(c) Land acquisition, utility relocation, resettlement and rehabilitation, environmental
mitigation/management ($52.49 million) as described below -
(i) Land acquisition and utility relocation ($26.31 million). This item will be financed
entirely by NHAI.
(ii) R & R assistance ($17.15 million) will be paid to beneficiaries for each package through
a consultative process. Payments will be made from the project director's office, and the
Bank share ($12.40 million) will be reimbursed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE).
(iii) Resettlement implementation support, training and monitoring ($0.89 million) will be
provided through: four supervision level NGO consultancy packages ($450,000 total); two
to three monitoring consultancies ($200,000 total); training of NHAI and NGO staff plus
other R&R implementation expenses by SOE ($240,000).
(iv) Environment management and mitigation works ($5.29 million) and consultancy
services for training, monitoring, evaluation and policy planning ($1.37 million)
(v) Provision for additional safeguard measures (US$1.49 million). This fund will be made
available in case of need for fiurther study and mitigation measures relating to the Taj
Trapezium Zone and Gautam Buddha Sanctuary. A small fraction of the fund will be used
to support the sanctuary stakeholder committee's review and monitoring activities of the
implementation of the EMP for the stretch passing through the sanctuary.
(d) NHAI project management costs (not Bank financed, $7.43 million).
Project Component 2 - US$20.25 million
Road Safety and Corridor Management Works - US$ 20.25 million, including
contingencies
(a) consultant services for safety audit to be done on the road sections belonging to this project
and the TNHP ($0.22 millions). The minor mitigation measures and recommendations identified
through this study will be implemented during the execution of this project. The consultant
services will be retroactively financed under this loan.
- 35 -



(b) a program of road improvements specifically targeted at supporting improved methods for
reducing accidents and improving the safety on the national highway network under NHAI
($11.13 million). Expenditures under this component will be limited to $1,000,000 per
item/contract and subject to their selection and design by the consultancy services identified under
the institutional strengthening component (item 4 (e)). It should be ensured by NHAI through
appropriate monitoring that (i) candidate improvements directly address locations with accident
problems and safety issues; (ii) selection should be made in consultation with police and local
authorities.
(c) a program of maintenance works to introduce alternative contracting methods and strengthen
maintenance management practices under two or three more Corridor Management Units ($8.90
million) which will be taken up after the pilot experience on two CMUs of the TNHP. Priorities,
design and implementation support will be provided by the consultancy services listed under the
institutional strengthening component (item 4 (e)).
Project Component 3 - US$ 25.55 million
Public-Private Partnership in Road Concession - $25.55 million, including contingencies
(a) Consultant services including legal advisory, preparation of bid documents, and evaluation of
bid (0.55 millions).
(b) NHAI financial support (estimated to be $25 million) for civil works, with 80% of Bank
financing.
Project Component 4 - US$19.02 million
Institutional Strengthening - US$ 19.02 million, including contingencies. This component
includes:
(a) Social and environmental capacity building, including (i) a poverty and highway development
study (US$0.77 million), which will be financed retro-actively; and (ii) Consultant services for
training and streamlining monitoring procedures ($0.33 million).
(b) Road safety capacity strengthening (US$7.44 million), including training of trainers and
dissemination of road safety manual for 2 to 3 years, public education and campaign through mass
media, and implementation of the comprehensive road safety action plan.
(c ) National Highway Asset Inventory (US$4.00 million). This will involve digitizing all available
data on the Golden Quadrilateral and computerizing the national highway asset inventory and
characteristics to enable effective management, control and planning of road assets. If necessary,
an aerial survey of NH-2 corridor will be undertaken after the completion of the upgrading works,
to prepare ortho-photographic and strip maps of adequate scale (1:5000 or 1:2000) to show all
features in the ROW including settlements and encroachments. The baseline information will be
integrated with other road and traffic related databases using the GIS.
(d) A study on the cross-border road transport efficiency (US$0.33 million). The study will
examine the current system of cross- border inspections, state taxes imposed on inter-state freight,
- 36 -



freight tariffs, axle load control, etc. and recommend alternatives that will reduce or eliminate the
long delays occurring to traffic on the national highways. The study will be conducted in
collaboration with MORTH and will adopt a stakeholder participatory approach.
(e) Corridor Management Units related consultant services (US$2.20 million).
(f) Project preparation and sector studies (US$ 3.96 million). This component will provide
technical assistance for conducting sector and project preparation studies, including expressway
project preparation (the stretch from Vadodara to Mumbai is proposed as one of the candidates
for detailed project study).
Project Component 5 - US$5.89 million
Front End Fee ( $ 5.89 million)
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Conponent _               US $million    US $mitlion    US $million
Highway Upgrading                                        442.78        175.30        618.08
Private Sector Development                                 17.75         7.75         25.50
Corridor Management and Road Safety                        16.30          1.90        18.20
Institutional Strengthening                                11.40         6.25         17.65
Total Baseline Cost                                      488.23        191.20        679.43
Physical Contingencies                                   21.36          8.49         29.85
Price Contingencies                                      29.21         11.62         40.83
Total Project Costs             538.80       211.31        750.11
Front-end fee                     5.89         5.89
Total Financing Required             538.80        217.20        756.00
Local       Foreign    "Total
Project Cost By Category                US $rnillion    US $million    US $million
Civil Works                                                454.98         186.85       641.83
Goods                                                        2.28           2.28         4.56
Services                                                    30.66          22.18        52.84
Miscellaneous                                               50.88           0.00        50.88
Total Project Costs    538.80        211.31        750.11
Front-end fee                    5.89          5.89
Total Financing Required    538.80         217.20        756.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes. is 756 (USS5n). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 77.91% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Economic analysis was conducted for each of the nine highway upgrading packages. The total
cost of the component including contingencies represents 90% of the total project cost.
Economic analysis was not performed for the corridor management units works for which both
international and domestic experiences suggest that these works will be highly economically
viable.
Economic analysis for the individual upgrading packages was prepared by the consultants
appointed for the feasibility studies. Details of the analysis are described in the relevant feasibility
study reports, which are included in the project file. All analyses followed the conventional
highway cost-benefit analysis methodology, and were based on well established highway project
evaluation models, including the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III)
developed by the World Bank. To ensure consistency, NHAI re-evaluated all packages using
HDM-II1, with the same input data from the consultant reports. A summary of the results is given
on the table below:
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                    Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial Analysis
Analysis                            Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:                $1,461 m         $1,623 m
Savings in road
user costs and road
maintenance
Costs:                   $ 553 m           $ 614 m
Road construction,
land & resettlement,
future maintenance
Net Benefits:            $ 908 m          $ 1009 m
IRR:                       25.9%             25.9%
A standard conversion factor of 0.90 has been used throughout to convert financial costs to economnic costs.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The unit construction costs were based on the Bill of Quantities developed by the consultants for the 420
km of roads for which the preliminary engineering design was completed. Total costs include physical and
price contingencies, supervision costs, and costs of land acquisition, R&R and utility relocation. The
average cost of US$ 1.6 million per kilometer includes widening to 4 and 6 lanes and shoulder
reconstruction. Maintenance costs were based on the costs developed during the Road Maintenance Study.
The table below presents the main characteristics of each package (Note that two packages, I-A and II-B,
are further divided into two sub-packages, respectively, for the purpose of economic analysis):
- 39 -



1998           Total   Total
Length  Traffic Road      Cost    Cost ERR  NPV
Package  Section                           (km) (AADT) Widenin  (M$) (M$/km   (%) (M$)
._ _      g                     )
I-Al     Agra- Tundla                      22.0   17509 6 Lanes      54     2.45  45%    158
I-A2     Tundla - Thane Mathsena           28.8   11008 4 Lanes      40      1.38  36%    109
I-B      Thane Mathsena - Etawah Byp.      59.0    6416 4 Lanes      72      1.22  23%    71
Start
I-C      Etawah Bypass End- Sikandara      72.8    8938 4 Lanes    101       1.38  31%    195
II-BI    Bhaunti - Fatehpur Part I         30.5    8361 4 Lanes      72      2.35  17%    28
Il-B2    Bhaunti - Fatehpur Part 2         20.8    8361 4 Lanes      45      2.14  19%    26
IV-A     Varanasi - Mohania                76.0    7056 4 Lanes    114       1.50  26%    169
IV-C     Sasaram - Dehri                   30.0    6919 4 Lanes      65     2.16  21%      62
V-B      Barachatti - Gorhar               80.0    4117 4 Lanes    115       1.44  20%    91
Total                                     420.0                     678      1.61  26%    908
The HDM-1II model estimates the net reduction in total transportation costs over the life of the
project, taking account of savings in road user costs, primarily vehicle operating costs and time
savings, along with changes in construction and maintenance costs. User cost savings depend
mainly on changes in road roughness, traffic congestion and operating speeds. Existing traffic
volumes range from 13,000 to 38,000 passenger car equivalents per day.
Safety impacts are uncertain due to offsetting effects of improved road standards and expected
higher traffic speeds, and were not considered in the analysis due to lack of refined data on both
accident occurrence and costs. It was observed that on the existing road the accident rates are
around 37 fatalities per 100 million vehicle-km and 47 injuries per 100 million vehicle-kin, which
are very high. The benefits of widening and paving the shoulders were included in the analysis
through speed-flow equations based on lane and shoulder width. Speeds predicted by the
HDM-III model were consistent with observations of speeds on the roads. The effects of narrow
roads, non-motorized traffic, pedestrians and roadside activities were reflected in a "friction"
factor affecting traffic speed that was estimated to be on average 0.70. Altemative road widths
were considered in the analysis, before adopting the final pavement and shoulder widths.
Main Assumptions:
The base case without the project assumes that roads are maintained (routine maintenance, pothole
patching and reconstruction at 11 IRI) but not improved over the 20-year evaluation period. In the
with-project case, further pavement strengthening is provided through an overlay scheduled when the
roughness reaches 6.0 IRI. Roads are designed on the basis of current levels of truck overloading,
recognizing the substantial lack of success in introducing improved load enforcement or truck fleet
modernization in India.
- 40 -



For the purpose of economic analysis, a project life of 20 years is assumed. A 20% scrap value is assumed
for the end year of project life. A discount rate of 12% is used for the calculation of NPV. Where
applicable, a 0.9 standard conversion factor is used for converting financial costs into economic costs.
The base year traffic levels were updated from the latest traffic counts (all in recent years), and verified
through field inspection. The traffic growth rates for each package were estimated based on the predicted
rates of population growth and per capita income in the project areas, and the assumed income (total GDP)
elasticities of traffic demand. The assumed elasticities were based on various international empirical
studies of traffic growth at similar stage of economic development. Specifically, elasticities for passenger
vehicle traffic range from 1.8 to 2.0, and for freight vehicle traffic, 1.0 to 1.25. On average, the annual
traffic growth rate was estimated to be around 9% for passenger vehicles and between 7% and 8% for
freight vehicles during the first 10 years of the evaluation period, afterwards, a conservative growth rate of
6% was adopted for all vehicles.
Generated traffic was also considered for the first year after project completion. A conservative price
elasticity of 0.25 was assumed to estimate the generated traffic, which yields, on average, a generated
traffic equivalent to 5% of the normal traffic. The road user benefits accrued to the generated traffic were
calculated as 50% of the road user benefits accrued to normal traffic. Passenger value of tirne by type of
vehicle was based on the per capita income level of the average passengers using that type of vehicle. The
impact of road congestion was considered through the HDM-III model. The table below presents typical
vehicle characteristics and road user costs:
Typical Vehicle Characteristics and Road User
Costs
Light |  Medium          Heavy
Cars       Buses       Trucks       Trucks       Trucks
Vehicle Characteristics
Gross vehicle weight (tons)                         1.2        13.2          7.0         16.2         25.0
Number of passengers (#)                            4.8          43            0            0            0
Service life (years)                                10           10           10           10           10
Kilometers driven per year (kmn)                 18000       100000        65000        85000       85000
Hours driven per year (hours)                      600         3000         2200         2900        2900
Economic Costs
New vehicle price (Rs)                          213500       489000      460000        572800      776500
New tire price (Rs)                               1000         6700         3000         6500         6500
Maintenance labor (Rs/hour)                         10           10           10           10           10
- 41 -



Driver wages (Rs/hour)                              0          70           25          37           37
Time costs (Rs/hour)                               22          15            0           0            0
Fuel price (Rs/liter)                              10           9            9           9            9
Lubricants price (Rs/liter)                        26          26           26          26           26
Typical Road User Costs (Rs per
vehicle-kilometer)
Four/Six Lane Road (3 IRI)                        5.1         15.6         4.8          6.8         9.9
Congested Two Lane Road (4 IRI)                   6.0        21.2          5.7          7.4        11.2
Congested Two Lane Road (7 IRI)                   6.5        22.5          6.8          8.9        12.9
Congested Two Lane Road (10 IRI)                  7.6        25.5          8.4         10.9        15.0
Typical Traffic Composition (%)                  28%          6%          11%         49%           6%
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The major risks affecting economic analysis for the highway upgrading component are cost
overruns, delays in implementation and lower-than-expected traffic growth. Cost overruns were
considered by a 20% increase in costs. The delays in implementation were reflected by assuming
one or two year delay in the opening of all works, with a commensurate delay in the benefit
stream. To account of lower traffic growth, that can be caused by macroeconomic problems, a
6% and 4% growth rate for all vehicles was assumed over the evaluation period. All these
sensitivity scenarios yield a project ERR greater than 18%. If benefits are reduced by 20% and
costs increased by 20%, the project ERR is 19.3%. A sensitivity scenario considering the value of
passenger and cargo time to be zero, yields a project ERR of 19.6%, which indicates that a high
quality of the project benefits are coming from the expected improved surface condition of the
project roads.
Sensitivity Scenarios                     ERR            NPV ($ million)
Base case                            25.9%                908
One year delay in opening                   23.0%                783
Two year delay in opening                   20.0%                653
Traffic growth equal to 6% for all vehicles        22.3%                558
Traffic growth equal to 4% for all vehicles        18.7%                293
Value of passenger and cargo time equal to zero      19.6%                 434
Benefits decreased by 20 %                  22.0%                 622
Cost increased by 20%                     22.7%                 804
Benefits down 20% and costs up 20%               19.3%                519
- 42 -



Switching values of critical items: The cost of highway upgrading works would have to increase by 175
percent or the benefits to drop by 64 percent before the overall project NPV would fall to zero. For a
typical section with an estimated cost for widening to four lanes of US$ 1.5 million per kilometer, the
traffic would have to be around 5,000 AADT to justify the investmnent with a 12% rate of return. For a
typical section with a current traffic of 8,000 AADT, the cost for widening to four lanes would have to be
around US$ 3.0 million per kilometer to justify the investrnent with a 12% rate of return.
Distribution of benefits: All income groups use the national highways, as travelers and as suppliers and
consurners of goods and services. Without the project, high transport costs would continue to affect prices
and availability of services to the communities served by the project, and would constrain economic
development at all levels. With the project, transport costs will decrease, travel times will reduce, and
services such as electricity, health, education, and agricultural extension are more likely to become
available in rural areas. The trucking industry in India is competitive, and is likely to pass on the benefits
of vehicle operating cost savings through lower freight rates, higher quality of services, and extended
service coverage. Bus services that use the project roads are both publicly and privately operated. The
project benefits to the privately operated bus services are likely to reach the bus users through lower fares
and higher quality. Fares of the publicly operated bus services are not likely to be reduced, but the extent
and schedules of bus services are likely to respond to changes in road capacity and quality. The table
below shows the distribution of project benefits among vehicle classes and sources of benefits, which
indicates that 66% of the benefits will be allocated to trucks, 17% to buses and 17% to passenger cars.
Vehicle operating costs savings of the normal and generated traffic will account for 69% of the project
benefits, while travel time savings will account for 31% of the project benefits.
Project Net Benefits (M$)
Net Benefits                         908
Costs                               -553
Benefits                            1461
Distribution of Benefits by Vehicle Class (M$)
Cars                                 248                                  17%
Buses                                248                                  17%
Light Trucks                         161                                  11%
Medium Trucks                        731                                 50%
Heavy Trucks                          73                                   5%
Total                               1461                                 100%
Distribution of Benefits by Source of Benefits (M$)
Nornal Traffic                       978                                 67%
VOC Savings
Generated Traffic                     30                                  2%
VOC Savings
Normal Traffic                       438                                 30%
Time Savings
Generated Traffic                     15                                   1%
Time Savings
Total                               1461                                 100%
- 43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Years Ending
Year1e    arr I      Year3         4      Year5| Year6         Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         112.5      187.5     225.0      150.0      75.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        112.5      187.5     225.0      150.0      75.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    5.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing           118.4      187.5      225.0     150.0       75.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 88.0      147.0      177.0      118.0      59.0       0.0       0.0
Government               30.4       40.5       48.0      32.0       16.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   118.4      187.5     225.0      150.0      75.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Procurement
A.   Institutional Capacity
NHAI carries out procurement of works, goods and services in-house by a division headed
by Member/Chief General Manager. NHAI has prior experience of execution of large externally
aided projects under assistance from ADB and JBIC. Both Bank and ADB are supporting
NHAI's National Highway Development Program and agency's institutional development.
An assessment was carried out earlier in February 2000 to determine the institutional
capacity of the NHAI to undertake project procurement for Third National Highway Project [LN.
4559-IN] and it was determined that NHAI has the institutional capacity to carry out project
procurement.
NHAI has also confirmed that its Board has been fully delegated authority for award of all
contracts without any limitation of value. NHAI has an exclusive web-site 'www.nhai.org' that
gives procurement information on names of successful bidder, current bids, etc.
NHAI has carried out procurement for major consultancy and large work for Third
National Highway Project and has therefore gained further experience/expertise on Bank- funded
procurement. The officers recruited have good educational background. There is fairly effective
audit system combined with review by internal and external vigilance organization. NHAI has
good procurement cycle management support and control system, sound record keeping system
and a fairly established mechanism for settlement of dispute.
The overall risk assessment [with overall rating of - Average] and prior review thresholds
in Paragraph D below are arrived at after assessing NHAI's capacity for carrying out project
procurement as per Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
B.    Procurement Methods
All project activities financed under the Loan shall be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement, January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999, in respect of Goods and Works. Consulting services to be funded through the
Bank's Loan would be procured in conformity with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September
1997, and January 1999. All civil works, goods and services will be procured using India-specific
Bank's Model Standard Pre-qualification and Bidding Document. Specific procurement
arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al, and are briefly described as under:
- 45 -



B].   Works [US $641.84 Million]
International Competitive Bidding [ICB]: US$615.41 Million Equivalent : The work
relating to widening and strengthening of 420 km. of national highways from existing two
lanes to four-six lane divided highway with service roads and other traffic separation
measures where required will be implemented in seven contract packages of value, in the
range of US$48 to US$96 million equivalent, for an aggregate value of about US $530
million [excluding price escalation and contingencies] equivalent. The pre-qualification
applications have been received by NHAI and the selection process of firms is underway.
As an advance action, bidding documents are under preparation by NHAI and bids are to be
invited soon. There shall also be a component of work as a pilot project for private sector
participation based on Intemational Competitive Bidding for an estimated value of US$
25.00 million.
National Competitive Bidding [NCB] : US $10.01 Million Equivalent: The work relating to
corridor maintenance and safety hazardous location improvement work shall be
implemented in contract package sizes of US $1.00 to 2.00 million equivalent each,
approximately [excluding price escalation and contingencies], for a cumulative value of
US$8.90 million equivalent and US$11.13 million equivalent.
Direct Contracting/Shopping/Force Account: US $16.40 Million Equivalent: The work
relating to minor improvement program/environment management program /provision for
additional safeguard measure/small work for road safety and corridor management shall be
on the basis of [i] lump sum fixed price contract soliciting quotation from at least three
qualified suppliers/contractors [ii] direct contracting with a qualified supplier/contractor or
[iii] as a last resort through force account, with the value of each contract being less than the
equivalent of US $25,000 in all the three cases.
B2.   Goods [US $4.56 Million Equivalent]
Direct Contracting/Shopping : US $4.56 Million Equivalent : It is envisaged that for
implementation of road safety action plan there shall be need for Direct Contracting or
Shopping for items like computers, data collection, training aids such as audio/video
equipment, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US $10,000 per contract, subject to
cumulative value of US $560,000 equivalent.
The work of aerial survey estimated to cost US$ 4 million is envisaged to be done for the
National Highway Network under NHAI through National Remote Sensing Agency,
Hyderabad on a direct contracting basis.
B3.   Consultancy Services [US $52.81 Million Equivalent]
- 46 -



Arrangement in respect of procurement of consultancy services is as under:
S. No.   Description of Services                  Estimated Cost        Method of
[US $ Million]        Selection
[i]      Supervision of Civil Works             34.96                 QCBS
[Four Packages]
[ii]     Consultants Services (Legal,           0.55                  QCBS
Preparation of Bid Documents,
Evaluation of Bids)
[iii]    Safety Audit on Engineering Design     0.22                  Single Source
Selection
[iv]     Social and Environment Capacity        0.77                  Single Source
Building:                                                   Selection
- Poverty and Highway Development
Study
[v]      Social and Environment Capacity        0.33                  LCS
Building:
- Consultant Services (Training,
Streamlining, Monitoring Procedure)
[vi]     Training of Trainers and dissemination    1.60               QCBS/Single
of Road Safety manual                                       Source Selection
[vii]    Public Education and campaign          2.64                  QCBS
through mass media
[viii]    Implementation of Road Safety Action   2.64                 SFB
Plan
[ix]     Cross State Border Road Efficiency     0.33                  SFB
Study
[x]      Corridor Management Units -            2.20                  QCBS
Consultants Services
[xi]     Project Preparation and Sector Studies   3.96                QCBS
[xii]    R&R support                            0.85                  QCBS/LCS
[xiii]   Environmental Management Plan          1.37                  QCBS
[xiv]    Provision of Additional Safeguard      0.39                  SFB
Measure
For item [i] above Proposals have been invited by NHAI and consultants shall be selected one month in
advance of start of construction work.
- 47 -



C.    Procurement Planning
NHAI has prepared a procurement plan for the identified packages under the project, in the
format specified by the Bank. This has been reviewed and approved by the Bank and is being fed
in SAP Operations Procurement also. Procurement of all packages would be undertaken in
accordance with this procurement plan.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank [Refer Table BI
Prior Review
-  All ICB irrespective of value.
-  All NCB civil works contracts [for corridor maintenance] valued US $5 Million
equivalent and above and first two contracts, irrespective of value.
-   Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US $100,000 equivalent and above
for firms, and US $50,000 equivalent and above for individuals.
E.    NCB Provisions
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of
NCB, all NCB contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
[the Guidelines]. In this regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Loan
shall follow the following procedures:
[i] Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India
Task Force [and as amended from time to time], shall be used for bidding;
[ii] Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;.
[iii] No special preference will be accorded to any bidder either for price or other terms
and conditions when competing with foreign bidders, state-owned enterprises,
small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State;
[iv] Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price
with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder;
[v] Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Bank [i] for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and [ii] for
- 48 -



all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period. [Such concurrence
will be considered by Bank only in cases of force majeure and circumstances beyond
control of NHAI];
[vi] Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank. The
system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or " bracket " of prices shall
not be used; and
[vii] Rate contracts entered into by Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal will not
be acceptable as a substitute for NCB procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable
for any procurement under National Shopping procedures.
F.     Procurement Information
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
[a] Prompt reporting of contract award information by the Project Management Units [PMU]
for the respective components.
[b] Comprehensive quarterly reports by PMU indicating:
[i] revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
[ii] revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract
award and completion time for individual contracts; and
[iii] compliance report by the borrower within three months of the Loan signing
date.
G.    Proposed Procurement Arrangements
The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement
are summarized in Table A. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by
the IDA/Bank.
- 49 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              1CB              NCB           Other          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             615.40            10.01           16.40         0.00        641.81
(492.00)          (8.00)         (13.00)        (0.00)     (513.00)
2. Goods                               0.00             0.00           4.60          0.00         4.60
(0.00)           (0.00)         (4.54)        (0.00)       (4.54)
3. Services                            0.00             0.00          52.90          0.00         52.90
(0.00)           (0.00)        (52.85)        (0.00)       (52.85)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00             0.00           0.00          33.60        33.60
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00              0.00           5.89          0.00         5.89
(0.00)           (0.00)         (5.89)        (0.00)       (5.89)
6. Resettlement and                    0.00             0.00           17.20         0.00         17.20
Rehabilitation Support                (0.00)           (0.00)         (12.72)        (0.00)      (12.72)
|  Total                    r     615.40            10.01          96.99          33.60       756.00
___________________________ |       (492.00)           (8.00)        (89.00)        (0.00)      (589.00)
i Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through direct contracting, national shopping, or force
account, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, and
technical assistance services.
- 50 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Servces
Expenditure CaWgory   QCBS    QBS    SFB      LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              44.90    0.00    5.34    0.78     0.00    0.99    0.00     52.01
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.80    0.00      0.80
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total 44.90    0.00    5.34    0.78     0.00    1.79    0.00     52.81
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (000)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CO = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, Single Source Selection, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                 All ICB irrespective of          ICB             8 contracts (US$555 nn.
- Civil Works for                value                                        approximately)
Widening and/or
Strengthening           US$5 million or first two         NCB              First two irrespective of
contracts irrespective of                           value (US$3 mn.)
value
2. Goods                  Contracts for Aerial      Direct Contracting       1 No. (US$4 mn.)
Survey
3. Services
- Consulting Services   For firms USS100,000 and  Bank Guidelines and as at 18 numbers (US$50 million
above             Paragraph B3 above         approximately)
For Individual Consultants,
US$50,000 and above
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  612 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 52 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         n Amount in US$million T   Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                          510.72                      80%
2. Goods                                 4.54          100% of foreign or ex-factory costs and
80% of other items procured
domestically
3. Consultants                           52.85          100% of total expenditure net of taxes
4. Unallocated                           15.00
Total Project Costs                     583.11         _
Front-end fee        5.89
Total                                   589.00
Financial Management Issues:
The project will be implemented by NHAI established under the NHAI Act, 1988. NHAI is
also implementing the TNHP. NHAI has already in place plans to build institutional financial and
internal control capacity.
Current Accounting System:
NHAI follows commercial (accrual) double entry accounting systems based on accounting
standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and significant accounting
policies adopted by the Board of NHAI from time to time. However, it has been noted that there
is one significant deviation from accounting standards in relation to notional income and this has
been specifically described in the "Project Risks" section of this Annex. The Finance Division at
the Head Office (HO) at New Delhi coordinates the finance function. The Division works in close
coordination with the Project Management Units (PMUs) in implementation of the projects.
NHAI follows decentralized payment and financial accounting procedure. At the HO, an
off-the-shelf accounting package is used for accounting.
NHAI has several bank accounts in commercial banks for operation of its funds. PMUs also
operate and maintain bank accounts. Payments for various projects are handled and the books of
accounts maintained at the PMUs. Each PMU is treated as a separate payment/accounting center.
PMUs prepare monthly trial balances which are sent to the HO. The accounting system at the
PMUs is manual.
At the end of the year, the consolidation of accounts takes place at HO based on the trial
balances submitted by the PMUs. The financial statements are prepared in the formats prescribed
- 53 -



under the NHAI Rules, 1997. The Rules also provide for additional reports, as may be required
by the Central Government, in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG).
The budget of NHAI is compiled based on the information received from the PMUs and
various departments at HO. Though the budget is monitored regularly by HO on the basis of
monthly trial balances received from PMUs, NHAI does not prepare periodic statements
comparing the actual expenditure/income against the budget.
All payments are supervised by independent professional construction supervision
consultants. The contractor's bills are checked by the consultants in addition to ensuring quality
control. Bills are also checked by PMU technical and accounts staff before making payments to
the contractors. Cheques are signed jointly by the Project Manager and the Accounts Officer.
Monthly trial balances prepared by the PMUs are reviewed by the HO.
Flow of Funds:
NHAI will receive funds required for the implementation of the project through Ministry
of Road Transport & Highways (MORTH), Government of India (GOI) as capital grant through
the budgetary allocations of GOI. Necessary funds to meet the project expenses are released from
HO to PMUs on a quarterly basis.
Proposed Arrangements:
Accounts Manual:
The accounting guidelines, policies followed by NHAI are documented in an Accounts
Manual prepared about five years back. New developments have required fresh guidelines to be
issued from time to time. The Accounts Manual needs to be updated to incorporate these
changes. NHAI will seek the assistance of the internal auditors to update the accounting manual
also incorporating the financial management manual developed by consultants appointed for
development of a project financial management system.
Project Financial Management System
The computerized Project Financial Management System (PFMS) is in advanced stage of
preparation. NHAI has contracted AF Fergusons for the purpose. The project financial
management system has been documented in a 'Financial Management Manual' which will now be
merged with the updated accounts manual. The Manual would also serve as a reference document
for all project staff. Substantial work has been done under the consultancy and the PFMS should
be fully implemented by October 1, 2001. Key issues relating to the PFMS are as follows:
The development of a computerized integrated financial management system was initiated
under TNHP and is expected to replace the "off the shelf' package currently being used by NHAI
for its accounting. NHAI have renegotiated with the financial management consultancy firm, AF
Fergusons to widen the scope of the PFMS from the project-specific financial reporting system
- 54 -



for the proposed project to permit the project accounting system to be applied generally within
NHAI to upgrade its project accounting and integrate it with the mainstream accounting system.
*  The PFMS will provide all information required for PMR reporting - cover all aspects of
project accounting, procurement and contract administration and provide financial
information with adequate linkages to physical performance indicators.
*  A time bound action has been prepared for phased implementation and training of all
accounting staff in the PFMS. As per the current plans, the PFMS will be installed initially
in the 5 PMUs implementing the Bank Projects and in the HQ. 3 months implementation
assistance has been built into the consultancy contract. In addition, a dedicated IT person
will get associated with the PFMS project and take over the management of the systems
from the consultants.
Until the PFMS is installed and becomes operational, the Bank would recommend that the
NHAI ensure that the following accounting benchmarks are adopted as part of the accounting
procedures:
*  Quarterly consolidated financial statements are prepared. This would need the PMU's
accounts to be incorporated on a quarterly basis into the HQ accounts.
o  The quarterly financial statements provide a comparison of the actual expenditures against
the budgeted provisions.
Staffing and Training
The Finance Division at the HO is headed by a General Manager (GM, Finance) who
reports to the Member, Finance. The Member Finance is a member of the Board of NHAI and is
on deputation from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). He is supported by 3 Deputy General
Managers (Accounts), 3 Managers, 3 Accounts Officers, 6 Accountants and a Cashier. The PMUs
are staffed with an Accounts Officer and an accountant.
Training will be the most important requirement for the operation and implementation of the
financial management system. Accounting staff at the PMU and HO will be provided with training
on the Bank's disbursement and reporting requirements before the implementation process
commences.
Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements from the IBRD Loan would be initially be made according to the Bank's
current transaction-based disbursement procedures (reimbursements with full documentation or
against Statements of Expenditure, and direct payments). It is expected that the quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) would be prepared from the beginning of the project and used for
project management purposes. It is however, expected that assured preparation of regular, timely
and adequate PMRs could take up to eighteen months from the start of the project. Disbursement
- 55 -



would be converted to PMR-based system after satisfactory, regular and timely quality PMRs has
been demonstrated.
Financial Reporting
Project management reports (PMRs) would be generated from the manual/ computenrzed
accounting system for each implementing agency and for the whole project. These reports would
be management-oriented and would be used for project management. The reports would include:
(i) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including
sources and application of funds (by components and expenditure categories) and key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories; and
(iii) forecasts for the next 2 quarters. The formats of these reports would conform to the Bank's
requirements and will be incorporated in the Financial Management Manual.
Auditing Arrangements
External Audit
NHAI is audited by the Controller & Auditor General of India (C&AG). The following
audited annual project financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the
close of GOIs fiscal year.
Statement of Sources and Uses of funds classified by expenditure categories, components
and sources of funds.
Special Account reconciliation
Statement of withdrawals from the Credit/Loan based on SOEs or PMRs.
The following audit reports will be maintained under ARCS:
Agency                             Audit Report               Audited by
NHAI                               Proj ect/SOE               C&AG
NHAI                               Entity                     C& AG
GOI, Department of Economic Affairs  Special Account          C&AG
In accordance with the Bank policies for submission of a separate financial statement for the
entity as a whole for all revenue earning entities, NHAI would be required to submit entity
statement of accounts and an audit report on the same within six months of the close of the
financial year in addition to the project audited reports.
Internal Audit
NHAI has not had internal audit done (except the internal reviews carried out by their own
staff) since 1998-99. NHAI is currently in the process of preparing a short list of firms of
chartered accountants to under take the internal audit for the year 2001-2002. A time-bound
- 56 -



action plan for the process has been prepared, including obtaining the approval of Termns of
reference from the Bank. The process will be completed by July 31, 2001.
Project Risks
The issues that pose inherent risks are as follows:
* The current business and accounting practices do not allow NHAI to work out project wise
under or over absorption of their indirect costs. These costs are not directly allocated or
attributed to projects but charged off to Profit & Loss Account to offset against agency
commission income. Agency commission is charged at 3% (of the civil works & supervision
costs) for externally aided projects and 9% (of the civil works & supervision costs) for other
projects. This is the standard policy followed by PWD in the states. It also implies that this
percentage of works, capitalized as assets (as NHAI is the owner of the works) is treated as
revenue income in the Profit & Loss Account. This is contrary to standard accepted
accounting practices. In order to assist NHAI to move towards becoming an agency managing
its assets on business principles: (a) the current accounting policy of creating notional revenue
incomes as agency income at the cost of capitalization, which is a deviation from accepted
accounting standards, needs to be examined by NHAI and GOI; and (b) NHAI needs to build
on the processes of using accounting information to determine the actual project wise under
and over absorption of their indirect costs as a factor critical in arriving at informed
management decisions relating to sustainability. This can be addressed by building an
appropriate costing module as part of the development of the computerized PFMS.
* Additionally, the PFMS being developed does not specifically provide for cost allocations to
arrive at project wise profitability status. In the long run, this will be critical in arriving at
informed management decisions relating to sustainability. It is recommended that NHAI
addresses this issue in the future.
e NHAI has not had internal audit done (except the internal reviews carried out by their own
staff) since 1998-99. The Bank has agreed on a time-bound action plan for the process,
including obtaining the approval of Terms of reference from the Bank.
* Delays in the audit process. The annual accounts for the year ended 31 March 1999 and the
audit report thereon were issued in April 2000. The audit for the year 1999-2000 has been
completed but the audit report has yet to be finalized.
The Bank requires NHAI to provide the audited financial statements and audit report
within six months of the close of the financial year. With the introduction of the PFMS, NHAI
plans to complete the process of consolidation and finalization of accounts by the end of June to
enable it to comply with the Bank's audit requirements.
For the year 2000-2001, NHAI will work with a firm of chartered accountants to
complete the consolidation and finalization of the accounting statements to meet the Bank's time
line for submission of audited statements and report.
- 57 -



Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
While current capacity within NHAI to account for project funds is adequate, NHAI is
upgrading this capacity with thz development of the computerized Project Financial Management
System. A project financial m2nagement manual has been developed in conjunction with the
system. The system will be tested and debugged, and staff trained, over a 12 week period
beginning in June 2001, so that the system will be fully implemented from October 2001.
Agreed Actions                                         By when
Quarterly financial statements provide a comparison of the  For GTRIP: October 2001
actual expenditures against the budgeted provisions and
explanations of significant variations.                For entire NHAI: January 2002
Quarterly consolidated financial statements are prepared.  August 2001
This would need the PMU's accounts to be incorporated on a
quarterly basis into the HQ accounts.
Initiate 12-week system testing and debugging process  June 2001
Full implementation of PFMS for TNHP and GTRIP         October 2001
Appointment of chartered accountant firm for internal audit   July 2001
purposes
Training of staff in Bank's accountirng, reporting     July 2001
requirements and claim procedure
Prepare detailed plan for roll out of PFMS for all project
accounting needs of NHAI outside of GTRIP and TNHP     December 2001
Begin PFMS roll out in NHAI to integrate with mainstream  January 2002
accounts
Update and merging of Accounts and Financial Management   December 2001
Manuals
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       15                           10
First Bank mission (identification)             09/04/2000                    09/04/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     02/05/2001                    02/12/2001
Negotiations                                    05/15/2001                    05/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2001
Prepared by:
National Highways Authority of India
Preparation assistance:
Consultants and India Country Office
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Zhi Liu                           Task Leader, Transport Economist
A. K. Swaminathan                 Highway Engineer
Anil Bhandari                     Highways Adviser, Institutional Strengthening
Sonia Kapoor                      Environmental Specialist
Mridula Singh                     Social and Resettlement Specialist
Anil Somani                       Environmental Specialist
Guang Zhe Chen                    Transport Economist, India Transport Team Leader
Stein Lundebye                    Transport Specialist, Road Safety
Piers Vickers                     Transport Specialist
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao           Technical Specialist, Economic Analysis
Reidar Kvam                       Social and Resettlement Specialist
N. Rarnan                         Procurement Specialist
D. C. Mishra                      Procurement Specialist
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist
Manvinder Mamak                   Financial Management Specialist
Irene Christy                     Program Assistant
Douglas Gray                      Program Assistant
N. S. Srinivas                    Team Assistant
Sangeeta Anand                    Team Assistant
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Grand Trunk Road Project, Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, Main Report, version 1.0, May
2001
2. Grand Trunk Road Project, Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, Appendices, version 2.0, May
2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
1. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project:
Consolidated environmental Impact Assessment Report - Volume I, February 2001
2. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Project : Consolidated Environmental Impact Assessment Report -
Executive Summary Draft: January 2001
3. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Project: Noise Quality Assessment - Final Report, January 2001
4. NHAI - Tree Plantation Strategy - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project, March 2001
5. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Consolidated Resettlement Action Plan - Final
Report, February 2001
6. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Construction Period Road Safety Plan - Volume VI,
Final Report, February 2001
7. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Independent Review Report - Volume II, Final
Report, February 2001
8. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Air Quality Assessment - Volume III, Final Report,
February 2001
9. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Executive Summary - Final Report, February 2001
10. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Road Landscape and Tree Transportation Plan -
Volume V, Final Report, FebruLary 2001
11. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IA,
Final Report, February 2001
12. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IB,
Final Report, February 2001
13. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IIB,
Final Report, February 2001
14. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IC,
Final Report, February 2001
15. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IVA,
Final Report, February 2001
16. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package IVC,
Final Report, February 2001
17. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Environmental Management Plan - Package VB,
Final Report, February 2001
18. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Appendices to EIA Report - Volume IA, Final
- 60 -



Report, February 2001
19. NHAI - Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project: Noise Quality Assessment - Volume IV, Final
Report, February 2001
20. NHAI - Economic Analysis, February 2000
21. Institutional Strengthening of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), December 1999
22. NHAI, Corporate Plan 96-97, September 1996
23. NHAI, Options Report, Medium Term Construction Priorities for Expressways in India, December
1994
24. NHAI, Corporate Plan, Reference Documents, April 1996
25. NHAI, Organization and Development Proposals, May 1995
26. NHAI, Organization and Development Phase 2 Report, May 1996
27. Development of Long Term Plan for Expressways, Executive Summary, October 1991
28. Development of Long Term Plan for Expressways in India, Final Report, October 1991
29. Medium Term Construction Priorities for Expressways in India, 1996
30. NHAI, Resettlement Action Plan, October 2000 - Consultancy Services for Package - I, Four Laning
and Strengthening of the Existing Two-lane from km 199.66 (Agra) to 393 (Rajpur) of NH-2
31. NHAI, Resettlement Action Plan NH-2 (Package II), Construction Package 'B' - Four Laning and
Strengthening of Highway from km 393 (Sikandara) to km 115 (Khaga) Section of NH-2 (11/28/2000)
32. NHAI, NH2 Varansasi - Aurangabad 4-laning and Strengthening Project, Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Action Plan, Construction Package A & Package C, September 2000
33. NHAI, Resettlement Action Plan, Consultancy Services for Four-laning and Strengthening of the
Existing two-lane Section of NH2, km 180.00 to km 398.75 (Madanpur to Barwa Adda) (package
V(B))
34. NHAI, Follow-up Public Consultation Programme, April 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 61 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Cirand Trunk Road Improvement Project
May-2001
Differenc-e between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project iD    FY   Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P055454        2001 KERALA RWSS                                         0.00      65.50                  0.00       0.00      61.17      -0.11       0.00
P035173        2001 POWERGRID II                                      450.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     450.00       0.00       0.00
P050658        2001 TECHN EDUC III                                      0.00      64.90                  0.00       0.00      59.15       -0.51      0.00
P059242        2001 MP DPIP                                             0.00     110.10                  0.00       0.00     103.53       -3.50      0.00
P010566        2001 GUJARATHWYS                                       381.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     340.11       1.45       0.00
P038334        2001 RAJ POWER I                                       180.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     161.46     -16.99       0.00
P067543        2001 LEPROSY II                                          0.00      30.00                  0.00       0.00      29.57       0.00       0.00
P049770        2000 REN EGY II                                         80.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00     125.24       3.67       0.00
P045049        2000 AP DPIP                                              0.00    111.00                  0.00       0.00     100.77       -1.09      0.00
P035172        2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTUFtING PROJECT            150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     134.69      15.02       0.00
P010505        2000 RAJASTHAN DPIP                                      0.00     100.48                  0.00       0.00      91.80       3.24       0.00
P067330        2000 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT                  0.00     142.60                  0.00       0.00     108.37      -14.04      0.00
P059501        2000 TAforEcon Reform Project                            0.00      45.00                  0.00       0.00      42.07       1.00       0.00
P055456        2000 Telecommunicabons Sector Reform lA                 62.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      58.24       4.54       0.00
P050667        2000 UP DPEP III                                         0.00     182.40                  0.00       0.00     143.17      28.28       0.00
P050657        2000 UP Health Systems Development Prcject               0.00     110.00                  0.00       0.00     101.64       3.01       0.00
P009972        2000 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECT                     516.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     485.B4       7.31       0.00
P049537        1999 AP POWER APL I                                    210.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     113.71      67.38       0.00
P050651        1999 MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                                 0.00     134.00                  0.00       0.00     119.30     129.20       0.00
P050646        1999 UP SODIC LANDS II                                   0.00     194.10                  0.00       0.00     153.08      39.66       0.00
P050637        1999 TN URBAN DEVIl                                    105.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      38.99     -13.24       0.00
P045050        1999 RAJASTHAN DPEP                                      0.00      85.70                  0.00       0.00      73.19      31.49       0.00
P045051        1999 2ND NATL HIVIAIDS CO                                0.00     191.00                  0.00       0.00     136.50       1.45       0.00
P041264        1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                               65.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00     106.79      10.08       0.00
P010561        1998 NATLAGR TECHNOLOGY                                 96.80     100.00                  0.00       0.00     150.05      63.35       0.00
P035169        1998 UP FORESTRY                                         0.00      52.94                  0.00       0.00      29.73      15.46       0.00
P035824        1998 UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                                79.90      50.00                  0.00       0.00     105.95      57.11       0.00
P035827        1998 WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                                0.00     300.00                  0.00       0.00     249.36      36.34       0.00
P010496        1998 ORISSA HEALTH SYS                                   0.00      76.40                  0.00       0.00      65.86      24.81       0.00
P049477        1998 KERALAFORESTRY                                      0.00      39.00                  0.00       0.00      22.92       2.11       0.00
P038021        1998 DPEP III (BIHAR)                                    0.00     152.00                  0.00       0.00     114.83      76.97       0.00
P049385        1998 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                              301.30     241.90                  0.00       0.00     330.20      122.29      0.00
P009584        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                      0.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       8.73       8.62       0.00
P036062        1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                                      0.00      28.00                 20.00       0.00      15.28      12.10       0.00
P043728        1997 ENVCAPACITYBLDGTA                                   0.00      50.00                  0.00       0.00      32.29      26.21       0.00
P044449        1997 RURAL WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT                           0.00      19.50                  0.00       0.00      15.48      14.67       -0.80
P009995        1997 STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                              350.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     226.72      90.06       0.00
P045600        1997 TA Srs RD INFRA DEV                                51.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00      12.35      12.94      12.94
P049301        1997 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                                50.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00      67.87      72.40       0.00
P010473        1997 TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                                0.00     142.40                  0.00       0.00      100.93     86.28       0.00
P010511        1997 MALARIACONTROL                                      0.00     164.80                  0.00       0.00      118.24     81.34       0.00
P010531        1997 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                                0.00     248.30                  0.00       0.00      147.32     107.50     67.31
P035158        1997 APIRRIGATION III                                  175.00     150.00                  0.00       0.00     208.30      111.46      0.00
P035825        1996 STATE HEALTH SYSII                                  0.00     350.00                  0.00       0.00     139.82      152.72      0.00
P010529        1996 ORISSAWRCP                                          0.00     290.90                  0.00       0.00      93.68      50.20       0.00
P043310        1996 COALENV&SOCIALMITIGATION                            0.00      63.00                  0.00        0.00     30.57      28.85       0.00
P010480        1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                                167.00     25.00                  0.00       10.00     74.99      81.57       6.49
P039935        1996 ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                               200.00       5.00                  0.00      168.87       9.61     179.09      0.00
P035821        1996 DPEP II                                             0.00     425.20                  0.00        0.00     141.03     29.23       0.00
P035170        1996 ORISSA POWER SECTOR                               350.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     222.18      162.45      0.00
P010484        1996 UP RURAL WATER                                     59.60       0.00                  0.00        7.20     28.42      24.56       6.92
P010485        1996 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                                    0.00    142.00                  0.00       19.64     40.65      77.96      13.06
P010503        1995 AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                                0.00      59.50                  0.00       0.00       6.53       11.83      0.90
P010489        1995 AP 1ST REF. HEALTHS                                 0.00     133.00                  0.00       0.00      30.11      28.91       0.00
- 62 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                    GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P010476       1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                                    0.00    282.90                 0.00       0.00     113.16    118.67      24.73
P010461       1995 MADRAS WAT SUP II                                275.80      0.00                 0.00     189.30      19.83    205.54       2.07
P010463       1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREV                             143.00     25.00                 0.00      65.81      69.14    136.86      10.66
P010464       1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                                0.00    260.30                 0.00       0.00      75.13     69.29       0.00
P010563       1995 FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)                700.00      0.00                 0.00     316.30       6.23    -377.47      0.00
P010522       1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                  0.00    126.00                 0.00       0.00      58.58     42.60      30.96
P009870       1994 CONTAINER TRANSPORT                               94.00      0.00                 0.00      15.00     39.35      51.71      51.70
P009964       1994 WATER RES CONSOLID H                               0.00    258.00                 0.00       0.00      66.79     68.21       0.00
P010457       1994 POPULATION IX                                      0.00     88.60                 0.00       0.00     29.89      29.92       0.00
P010455       1994 BLINDNESS CONTROL                                  0.00    117.80                 0.00      10.00     46.38      52.32       0.00
P010448       1994 FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                               0.00     47.00                 0.00       0.00       6.57     25.65      -2.05
P010410       1993 RENEWABLE RESOURCES                               75.00    115.00                26.00       0.00      36.83     69.60       0.00
P009977       1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                               0.00    194.00                 0.00       0.00      46.84     53.04      53.05
P009946       1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS II                                 153.00    153.00                 0.00       0.00     45.36      34.59      27.12
P009963       1992 POPULATION Vlil                                    0.00     79.00                 0.00       0.00      30.89     33.90       0.00
P009869       1989 NATHPAJHAKRI HYDRO                               485.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      71.47     71.47      30.92
Total:    6025.90    6822.22               46.00      802.11     6942.83    2832.59    336.01
-63 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1990              TDICI-VECAUS II                0.00    0.74    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.74    0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/92/94   TISCO                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Tanflora Park                 0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare              0.00    2.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.53    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Industries              0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                          0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India              0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1997              20TH Century                   7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              20th Century                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                            5.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Ambuja Cement                 2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00    2.67    4.94    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00    9.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.67    0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
2001               Basix Ltd.                    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                  0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT                         19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00   19.80    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         19.50    0.00    0.00   43.55   19.50    0.00    0.00   43.55
1995               Centurion Bank                0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.67    0.00    0.00
2000               Chinai                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule                     11.71    4.58    0.00   17.97   11.71    4.58    0.00   17.97
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                     11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                    6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00    6.25    4.39    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                         0.00    1.85    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.85    0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Driveshafts               0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98/00         Global Trust                  0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00
Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               HDFC                          0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HOEL                          0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00
1990              IAAF                           0.00    2.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.37    0.00    0.00
1998              ICICI-IFGL                     0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.00    0.00
1990/94            ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79    0.00    0.00
1990/95/00        IDFC                           0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00
1998              IL & FS                        0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.12    0.00    0.00
1990/93/94/98      IL&FS Venture                 0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00
1992/95            ITW Signode                   0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00
1981/86/91/93/96
Total Poitfolio:      187.09   147.87    5.00    70.52   150.81  136.34    5.00   70.52
- 64 -



Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000              SREI II                          10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Sarshatali Coal                 30.00      0.00      5.00     0.00
2000              APCL                             7.10      0.00      1.90      0.00
1999              Carraro                         10.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              GTF Fact                         10.00     0.00      2.41      0.00
2000              IndAsia                          0.00      0.00     15.00      0.00
2001              Internet Express                 0.00      0.00      5.00      0.00
2001              Jetair                           0.00     15.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       67.10     15.00    29.31      0.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 South       Low.
Indbi       Asia  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Pnn-lAtion mid-valr Imnllionsl                           997 5      1 t7t     2.417                   Life expectancy
GBtP Dor csaoia fAtlas method. USSI                       440        440        410
GNP fArlas method, USS bi,lionsl                         441 A       .'i1       9Rg:
Averace annual orowth. 1993-99
Pnnrvlatirrn t%l                                           1 7        19         1 9*
L.aborforco (%                                             21         2.3        23      GNP                                 Gross
Most recent *stimatelast*xt year available. 1993-99)                                     capita                            p anrimrynt
Poverty (% of ooDulation below national oovesyv line)      3S
llrhrn nnnofitonn tI% of lotsl ooouttlion)                27          7R         J1
Lifo exnectancv at birth fvoarsl                           63          62        s0
In-nt mnrtalilv (oar 1.000 live birthttsl                  72         7*         77
r.hild nralnnltnth,n (% of cijtldren lJfdatr Sl            S3          S1        43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved wator source (li of oovulation)          81         77        64
illito-rarv (I of nooulsltiOn antn 15.1                    44         4r         19
Grom; orimrarv enrollment 1% of school-aoe oooulaton)     100        t0tl        9f          -India          Low-income group
Mal.                                                    1119       11n        1n2
Fe,mle                                                   40         9n         AA
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ration'
GDP IUS$bilionsl                               150.1    290.5       419.1     447.3
G-ros do      jnPr inveslm,nt/lGnP             27 R       24 1       21 P.        9
Pynortn nf nnndr. AndK Aervia.s/lnP              fi 7      7 3       11 t       121                       Trade
Gross dor,estic savinaslGOP                     20.7      21.R       19.2       20.0
Gross nratinntl avinnsiGnpP         .           7>2       21 4       7;n A       2 1
Current account balancolGOP                      -0.5     .1 8       -0.8       -0.8      Domestic
Intorrst ar-ymenlxfGDP                            l3       1 1        11 1       1.2                                    Investment
tntal dPbht/GO,P                                119       728        234        22 9       avings
Total debt setvicolotxorts                      10 1      28.6       17.0       15.6
Present valueonf deht/G0P                                            20.1
Present valua of dettlexnorts                                .      143 3
Indebtedness
1979-S9  1f99.99      1998       1999   1999-03
(avaraDo annual orowthl
tiOP                                   57        5.8       f.i R5                8.              India RLow-incomegroup
GNP n,eranitr                         .33        t, 9      4 9        4 9        4 7
Exoorts of coros and services          4.9      11.8      12.5        1.7        7.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999       Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(I of GOPI
Aarirl.,ture                                    3f.8      31.6       29.1       27.7
Industrv                                        25.0      27.6       25.7       26.3    1t
Man,,fachtrinn                                17 4      17.4       15i        1. S                      7   _
Services                                        38.3      40.8       45.2       46.0      o9
Private r.n.-rmntinn                            f9 2      RC, 1      SR R       R8.n    -15
G-neral novernment ronsm-otion                  100       12.9           3      170                              --I-GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                    8.7       9.6       14.0       15.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averace annual arowthl
Anricolt.re                                      34        3          7 72       I1 3    4e
Industrv                                         6.6       6.5        4.0        8.8     30-
Man0faOt-rino                                  7 n       7.0        3 8        8 5     20
Servires                                         8.7       7          R A.3      79      t_
Private r.nns,mntinn                             S.5      S.2         3          2 .9     o      _      _    _    _    _    _
rpeneral envernment cons,,mntinn                 78       S 9       14 5       1093.3
Gross domestic investment                        5.7       6.2        4.3       11                      5 -10
Imnorts of nondc and services                   Fi s       R 8       -2.5       -3 R                   Eexports    *'Imports
Gross national Droduct                           5.5       5.8        6.7        6.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country tin boldl comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missinn. the diamond will
he incomnlete.
- 66 -



In dia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                          6.2       13.2       4.6      1_
Implicit GDP deflator                          15.8      8.3        8.9       3.3
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                         23.5       21.8      23.6              94    95    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                                    0.4      -1.7    -0.01              -GDP deflator            CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -12.5     -10.6    -11.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   16,613     33.667    38,326      60oo0o
Tea                                                    550        547       564
Iron                                            ..     557        380       374      40,000
Manufactures                                    .. 12,730      26,870    31,314
Total imports (cif)                                   21,219     41,858    55,385     27         M        II
Food                                           ..      714       2,543    2,459      290500
Fuel and energy                                       3,768      6,435    10,682
Capital goods                                  ..     5,288      9,122    10,192 
93  94  95  96  97   98  99
Fxnnrt rinr  index f1995=1001                            11          94        r9
ImDort Drice index (1995=1001                     ..      89         92        90                  99Exports     'Imports
Terms nf trade. 11995=1001                               19R        17        '107    I
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
IUSS millions)l1979                                     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 9,980   21,201     47,484    54.047      o
Imports of goods and services                13,120   27,934     58,565    67,250
Resource balance                             -3140   -6,733    -11,081   -13,203
Net income                                      527     -798      -2,955    -3,133
Net current transfers                         1,852    2,281     10,587    12,638     '1      l      i       t
Current account balance                        -761   -5.249     -3,449    -3,699
Financing items (net)                           985    4,400      7,382     9,487
Changes in net reserves                        -224      850      -3,933    -5,788    -2
Memo:
Reserves includina oold fUSS mnillions)       7.581    4.582     33.584    38.150
C.onverrinn ratA (DEC. locallUSS)               8.1      16.7      42.1      43.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
fUSS miltions)                                                                         CompositIon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         17,898   75,407     98,232   102.626
IBRD                                         728    6,615       7,993     7,879                  G 4,329    A 7,879
IDA                                         4,505   12,521     18,562    18,984
Total debt service                            1,282    6,955     10,001    10,527                                        18,984
IBRD                                         127       881      1,627     1.415
IDA                                           43       188      1,372       458                               _
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F: 42.241                        c:26
Official grants                              717       698        476       300
Official creditors                           646    2,489       1,727     1,701                                         4,503
Private creditors                              13    2,870     -1,433       414
Foreign direct investment                     49       252      2,635     2,155
Portfolio equity                               0       168        342     3,026                                E:24,664
World Bank program
Commitments                                  766    2,987       2,055       909      A - IBRD                     E - eilataral
Disbursements                                695    2,011       1,421     1,592    5B-IDA    0- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          77       450      2,193     1,211     CC-IMF                        G-Short-erm
Nettlows                                     619    1,561        -772       381
Interest payments                             93       619        806       663
Net transfers                                525       942     -1,578      -282
Development Economics                                                                                                     8125/00
- 67 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environment & Social Assessment, Environmental Management Plan, and Resettlement
Action Plan
India: Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
This Annex is divided into four sections covering the (i) overall design process; (ii) analysis of
alternatives; (iii) major issues and associated management measures; and (iv) implementation and
monitoring. The material presented is based on the Executive Summary of the Final Report on
Environmental and Social Assessments and Management Plans dated February 2001, and hereafter
referred to as the Executive Summary report, which is available in the project files.
1.    Overall Design Process
1.1   Environmental and Social Assessment
The EA process for each consultancy package employed an iterative approach in which
environmental issues have been identified in successive levels of detail and specificity at each
stage. This process included Preliminary Environmental and Social Screening, documentation of
Baseline Conditions, Assessment of Potential Impacts, Community Consultation, Integration of
Environmental Assessments in the Design Process, Assessment of Alternatives, Mitigation &
Enhancement Measures and Environmental Management Plans. These resulted in Base EA/EMPs.
A Feasibility Study Report, Preliminary Project Report, Detailed Project Report, and EIA have
been prepared for each consultancy package as well as an EMP for each contract package.
A social impact assessment had been carried out on the basis of a census to (i) ensure that all
impacted persons are identified and (ii) provide the basis for establishing a cut-off date for
determining who may be entitled to relocation assistance or other benefits from the project. The
assessment informed engineering designs and helped minimize negative impacts. Community
consultations at various levels were undertaken to gather and disseminate information about the
project from and to potentially project affected people. A RAP was prepared for each of the
consultancy packages. A socioeconomic survey was conducted on 25% of the PAPs to provide a
database to develop indicators for the monitoring and evaluation of the RAP. The entitlement
framework was derived entirely from NHAI's R&R Policy, which was earlier endorsed by the GOI
and the World Bank.
The emphasis during project preparation has been to ensure that the environmental and social
management measures are fully integrated into all stages of project development and operation.
1.2   Independent Review
The Base EA/EMPs were subjected to a review by independent consultants, who identified
deficiencies, obtained additional information as necessary and consolidated the Base EA/ EMPs.
During consolidation, the consultants ensured that these met relevant World Bank safeguard
standards and also ensured that the project design addressed the key environmental and social
issues. Independent consultants also carried out a review and consolidation of the various
individual RAPs. This resulted in (i) uniformnity across the RAPs; (ii) additional provisions for
participation of women in the project; (iii) additional plan components for safety and hygiene; (iv)
enhancement of common property resources; (v) prevention measures and awareness campaign
- 68 -



for highway related diseases; (vi) a revised and detailed budget; and (vii) a detailed monitoring
plan for the EMPs, completed with monitoring procedures and reporting formats.
1.3    Environmental and Forestry Clearances
The environmental legislation applicable to the project included: the Forest Conservation Act;
Environment Protection Act (including the EIA Notification); Wildlife Protection Act; Air Act;
Water Act; and Motor Vehicles Act. The laws that formed the basis of planning, construction and
operation of the project in relation to the social and cultural environment included: the Land
Acquisition Act; the National Highways Act; Environment Protection Act (including the EIA
Notification); and Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act.
The project has obtained all the necessary Central (MOEF) and State Government (Pollution
Control Board, Forest Department, Groundwater Board) clearances.
1.4    Community Consultation
Public participation and community consultation has been integrated into the social and
environmental assessment process of the GTRIP. Consultation was used as a forum to establish a
two-way process for sharing information, to build awareness among the stakeholders and to
translate the outcomes into project design. It assisted in the identification of problems as well as
the needs of the population likely to be impacted. This public consultation - carried out during
screening, feasibility and assessment stages - has been conducted through various means:
door-to-door interviews, focus group discussions (9 different types), expert consultation (at
district level) and stakeholder consultation. As per MOEF guidelines, district level public hearings
were conducted.
The main issues raised during consultations were related to resettlement, safety, cultural assets,
bypasses, air pollution, noise, flora, roadside drainage and roadside amenities. All of these issues
have been incorporated prior to finalizing the project design. For instance, the density and species
selection of trees was altered; service roads, underpasses and parking bays were included to
improve road safety; and landscaping activities were planned to enhance cultural assets.
1.5    Public Disclosure
A list of locations where the EIA, EMP and RAP reports of the various packages have been
disclosed is provided in Table 1. Additional public information dissemination was carried out after
the EA documents were prepared through public notices, newspaper advertisements, briefing
material (in Hindi), maps, charts, banners, reading material (sunmmary of the EMPs and RAPs in
Hindi) and audio visual presentation materials in Agra, Kanpur, Sasaram and Barhi.
Table 1: Public Disdosure Locations for EIA, EMP and RAP reports
Package  - Route Description                  Locations
I - A    Agra- Shikohabad       NHAI, PMU Office, Agra, UP
DM Agra, UP
I -B    Shikohabad - Etawah Bypass (start) DM Ferozabad, UP
Etawah bypass (end)- Bhognipur   DM Etawah, UP
I-C                             DM Auriya, UP
Govt. Library, Lucknow, UP
Regional Office, SPCB, UP
69 -



11- B    Bhaunti - Fatehpur Border  NHAI, PMU Office, Kanpur, UP
DM Office, Kanpur Nagar, UP
DM Office, Kanpur Dehat, UP
UP State Pollution Control Board
State Library, Kanpur
IV -A    Raja Talab - Mohania     NHAI, PMU Office, Varanasi, UP
IV -C    Sasaram bypass           Library, BHU, Varanasi, UP
DM Office, Kaimur [Bhabhua], Bihar
DM Office, Varanasi, UP
DM Chandoli, UP
UP, State Pollution Control Board
State Library, Kanpur
V- B    Raniganj - Barakatha     NHAI, PMU Office, Kodenna, Bihar
DM Office, Gaya, Bihar
DM Office, Hazaribagh, iharkhand
State Pollution Control Board, Jharkhand
2.     Analysis of Alternatives
2.1    General Approach
The analysis of alternatives in the project has been carried out at 3 levels: strategic, program, and
project levels. Various options were considered and eliminated at each successive level.
Environment and social issues were included in the criteria against which the various altematives
were evaluated at each level.
2.2    Alternatives
At a strategic level, alternatives consisted of choices between various modes of transport. This
was carried out as a part of the Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plans. A number of studies were
undertaken by the MoST and Planning Commission with regard to development of the surface
transport network. The studies demonstrated the net positive impacts expressways and
high-capacity highways might have in terms of social and economic development. The studies
concluded that additional highway capacity would have positive net environmental benefits;
primarily in terms of a reduction in the pollution load due to less congestion.
At a program level, during the late 1980's the MoST commissioned a study of the need for and
identification of major expressways to be developed over the longer term. However, to date, the
financial and institutional resources to embark on expressway construction have been limited.
Therefore, the MoST proposed that a medium term programme be prepared for highway
improvement and capacity augmentation. As part of this medium term program, studies for
prioritization and analysis of options were carried out in 1995 for 3 high density corridors -
Delhi-Ambala, Delhi-Kolkata, and Chennai-Trichy.
At a project design level, altematives were considered in terms of: (i) no action vis-a-vis the
project; (ii) various alignment altematives available within the existing RoW; (iii) bypasses as
altematives, and various bypass alignment altematives; (iv) road configuration alternatives; and (v)
other engineering alternatives. Environment and social considerations were integral to the analysis
of alternatives at these design stages. The avoidance and minimization of negative environmental
and social impacts have been considered in project design.
- 70 -



3.    Major Issues, Avoidance, Mitigation and Enhancement Measures
3.1    Climate
The GTRIP is located in a humid sub-tropical region with marked monsoon effects. The weather
generally remains dry and hot, while in winters cold weather prevails. By and large, no change in
the macroclimatic setting is envisaged. The micro-climate is likely to be temporarily affected by
vegetation removal, potential decrease in surface water bodies and the addition of pavement
surface. The proposed compensatory afforestation, landscape development and retention ponds
will positively influence the microclimate.
3.2    Air Quality
Ambient air quality monitoring was carried out to establish the baseline concentrations at
receptors. The SPM levels already exceed permissible limits at major urban locations and in the
Taj Trapezium Zone. Other air pollutants were within the permissible limits. During construction,
an increase in the concentration of air pollutants is likely from hot-mix plants, batching plants and
various construction activities. Adequate mitigation measures - restrictions on the including the
location of plant, the use of dust extraction units on hot mix plants and spraying of water in dusty
areas - have been included to address these temporary impacts.
During operation, the project should improve air quality, other things being equal, through the
removal of bottlenecks and congestion in built-up areas. Special mitigation measures for the
abatement of pollution in the Taj Trapezium - acquiring additional land for the planting of
pollution resistant species - have also been included.
3.3    Water
The project corridor traverses the Ganga drainage system. The baseline water quality monitoring
carried out at 17 locations indicates that concentrations of major physico-chemical parameters
along the entire GTRIP is within limits. Overall, the water table varies between 2 to 9m for most
part of the year, and, therefore the availability of ground water is not a limiting concern.
Waterlogging occurs at certain stretches along the road and is due to previous borrowing
operations.
No major adverse hydrological impacts are anticipated under this project. Construction activities
around surface bodies can affect water quality and, therefore, adequate mitigation measures have
been incorporated. These measures include protection of water body banks and edges, cascading
to protect for scour, silt fencing to prevent construction run off entering water courses and oil
interceptors. Many water bodies will be partially filled up due to the proposed widening. A total
of 190 wells and 548 hand pumps will be relocated due to the project. Relocation of all these
community water resources has been designed in consultation with the community. All
community resources impacted due to the project will be relocated to suitable locations before
construction starts. The project's water requirement will not alter the water availability scenario.
3.4    Soils - Erosion & Quality
Soils along the road corridor are generally neutral to slightly alkaline. Heavy metal concentration
in the soil is well below USEPA limits. Loss of topsoil, especially in irrigated areas, due to land
- 71 -



acquisition is a long-term residual impact. However, land acquisition has been minimized,
particularly along the stretches where agricultural use of land predominates.
The potential for erosion is limited to a few high embankment areas due to shallow slopes and
moderate rainfall in the corridor. Once trees are removed during pre- construction and ground
cover is cleared on the expanding side for widening, erosion could increase. To mitigate soil
erosion, slope protection works, including turfing of slopes, reinforce earth walls, stone and brick
pitching and gabion structures - will be undertaken as applicable.
Contamination of soil can take place due to leakage or spillage of fuel, lubricants, asphalt and
bitumen as well as refuse and solid waste generated from labor camps. Proper equipment and
construction camp management practices will be adopted to ensure that these impacts do not
occur.
3.5    Quarries and Crushers
Existing quarries and crushers that are already in operation (with the required environmental
clearances and approved redevelopment plans) will be used. No new quarries will be opened.
Unless these crushers control the pollution level specified under the Air and Water Acts and
satisfy CPCB norms, they will not be used. Though quarry materials are to be transported over
long distances to construction sites, almost all quarries identified have proper access roads.
Therefore, no major impact during the hauling of materials is envisaged.
3.6    Borrow Pits
Borrow areas have been identified along the vicinity of the GTRIP corridor. These are barren
areas (or areas which are not cultivable), areas where the owners are willing to create ponds, or
fishponds, and agricultural areas where the existing level of ground is higher than the surrounding
and the owners want these parcels of land to be lowered to facilitate irrigation. Borrow areas
located within the Gautam Buddha Wild Life Sanctuary or any other forest will not be used.
Productive agricultural areas have been avoided for borrowing. The selection of borrow areas to
be used have been based on environmental as well as civil engineering considerations. The specific
contractual requirements for borrowing have been developed for non-cultivable lands, productive
lands, elevated lands, fish ponds and borrow areas near settlements. If the borrow area pits are not
treated properly, stagnant water pools will be formed and these pose health hazards. To mitigate
such impacts, specific redevelopment measures - filling and providing layer of preserved topsoil,
plantation of trees along the edge of borrow areas - have been developed and included in contract
clauses.
3.7    Fly Ash Utilization
There are seven coal-based thermal power plants in the states of UP and Bihar, within a distance
of 1 OOkm from the corridor. Fly ash generated from these plants has the requisite physical
properties for use as embankment fill material. Although fly ash is an excellent fill material, it
poses potential adverse health impacts. Therefore, extreme care will be taken during handling and
transportation of this material as fly ash gets air borne easily and causes dust nuisance. No adverse
impact from fly ash is envisaged during the operation phase, as it will remain within the
embankment in a compacted form and topped by a layer of turf to prevent erosion.
- 72 -



3.8    Noise
Noise level monitoring was carried out for various land uses along the project corridor. The noise
levels ranged between 5OdB(A) and 88dB(A). Along the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary, a
high daytime noise level of 76-78 dB(A) was observed. Noise levels close to the highway are
already higher than permissible levels. These are predicted to remain high during project
operation. At several locations, noise level will increase by as much as 5-l OdB(A). Some locations
have very sensitive receptors such as schools and hospitals.
During construction, noise standards will be strictly enforced for all vehicles, plant, equipment,
and construction machinery. Construction sites will not be located within 300 m of settlements.
No hot mix, batching and aggregate crushing plants will be located within 200m of sensitive areas
such as schools and hospitals. Noise barriers will be erected at several places where noise during
operation is expected to be high and would severely impact sensitive receptors.
3.9    Flora-Roadside trees
The total number of trees existing on the entire RoW is about 95,000. These are generally trees
planted through social forestry programs, although some of the trees are quite old and some are in
decay. A total no of 48,119 trees are to be felled due to the project. The cutting of trees may have
several impacts including loss of shade, loss of tree products, temporary increase in erosion,
reduction in air quality and rising ambient noise.
NHAI has developed a tree plantation strategy, which will be followed. Tree felling has been
minimized and a significant proportion of trees (46 to 61% arnong different packages) has been
saved through design modifications. The forest departments of UP, Bihar and Jharkhand will plant
2 saplings for each tree cut. In the case of trees which have significant cultural or societal value
and which are healthy, transplantation will be undertaken - about 700 in all. There will be no
pesticide use either for removing the existing vegetation or in promoting the growth of new
roadside vegetation.
The implementation of NHAI's tree plantation strategy will be monitored by the state High Power
Committees and by the project level supervision consultants and NGOs. The quarterly review
meetings of the High Powered Committees will review and monitor funds transferred from NHAI
versus fund received by each district forest officer by quarter, and compare these with amounted
requested and released, to identify any delays in implementation for tree plantation. Memoranda
of understandings are under negotiations between NHAI and the concerned state forestry
departments to ensure funds for tree re-plantation will be released based on survival rates, which
have been included in the project performance indicators. District forest officers will report to
NHAI Environment Managers on number of trees planted by quarter and their survival rates in the
following years (and at end of project).
3.10   Flora- Reserved Forests and Wildlife Sanctuary
The project corridor traverses the Agra and Kaimur Hills Reserved Forests. Both these are
degraded areas. The highway also passes through the buffer area (bands of 400m on either side of
the highway) of the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary. The forest cover in the sanctuary is
- 73 -



deciduous, with grassland and scrubland. None of the flora found in the area is classified as rare,
endangered or threatened as per the IUCN guidelines. Part of the Agra Reserved Forest that is
close to the road is currently used as a rubbish dump, including unprotected disposal of
slaughterhouse waste.
The major threats to flora in these areas come from deforestation for fuel, overgrazing and illegal
tree felling. The road construction activity itself will not have an impact on the already degraded
status of the reserved forests and sanctuary. No land is to be acquired for road construction in
these areas. A total of 12,000 saplings within the sanctuary area will be planted. To prevent any
further dumping of waste within the RoW or in the adjoining Agra Reserved Forest, a physical
barrier to prevent trucks from emptying rubbish from the highway will be erected. The project
will prohibit the use of quarries located within the forest areas. In addition to compensatory
afforestation, measures such as regular policing and patrolling by the NHAI authorities have been
planned to prevent unwarranted intrusion in forest areas.
3.11   Fauna
No endangered or rare species have been reported in the area, except for the wildlife sanctuary
stretch. However, the presence of endangered fauna, especially the tiger, in the area was a major
driving force in the original declaration of the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary. Other
important species thought to live within the sanctuary include the wolf, leopard, hyena, jackal,
spotted deer, sambhar, barking deer, chinkara and nilgai.
The envisaged impacts on fauna during construction and operation are disturbance due to noise,
and an increased risk of accidents given rising vehicle speeds. The only real potential road safety
impact on fauna may occur within the stretch through the Gautam Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary,
although there is no evidence of any road-kills in the recent years.
Several mitigation measures for the Gautam Buddha Wild Life sanctuary have been proposed on
the basis of consultatioiis with the local community, forest officials, wild life experts and also as
per the recommendations of the Forest Management Plan. All the measures recommended by the
stakeholders especially the wild life officials and NGOs have been incorporated in form of
mitigation measures which form part of the respective contract documents - for example,
construction activity restricted to ROW, location of construction camps outside Sanctuary,
prohibition of use of water resources within the Sanctuary and inclusion of wildlife crossings.
3.12   Project Affected Persons
Adverse socioeconomic impacts include all disruptions on the social and economic interactions of
communities due to the road project. This involves effect on both the adjacent communities
(mostly direct) as well as the nearby communities (mostly indirect). Although 11,155 families
would be impacted, less than 60% would be actually displaced. The number of affected persons is
29,483 while that of the displaced persons 20,105 (68% of the total affected persons). Size of the
displaced families (3 persons per family) is significantly higher than that of the affected families
(2.6 persons per family) who are not displaced (mainly squatters and encroachers). Of the 11,155
families affected, about 6,614 families will be displaced. Of the displaced families, the share of ST
and WHH families is low. The number of ST population displaced is only 45; that too dispersed
over the entire 422km length of GTRIP (i.e. about 1 family per 10km).
- 74 -



An Entitlement Framework has been developed and this provides for distinct entitlements and
assistance for each category of the displaced families/persons. Families or persons experiencing
minor impacts (or partial impacts not resulting in displacement) are also entitled for separate
awards. The Framework is shown in the Executive Summary report.
Vulnerable groups - woman-headed families, scheduled caste families, scheduled tribe families,
families below poverty line, disabled persons, destitute persons and orphan families - constitute
about 37% of all affected families. Most of the affected vulnerable group families live below the
poverty line.
There are 2,714 non-titleholder families affected by the project, which is about 24% of the total
project-affected families. Of these families, 1,912 will be displaced. Of the non-titleholder farnilies,
323 (about 12%) are encroachers, and 1529 (about 56%) are squatters.
Of the 11 ,155 families affected by the project, around 10% are impacted due to full or partial loss
of residential structures. Of the rest, about 71% derive their livelihood from agricultural activities,
and the remainder from commercial activities. A large number of families who derive their
livelihoods from agriculture, are either marginal farmers (farmers with marginal land) or are
sharecroppers/tenants. Similarly, the residual families derive their livelihood from petty roadside
businesses (includes petty roadside industrial units). All of them will fully or partly lose their
livelihood as a consequence of acquisition or eviction. Income restoration plans are developed to
adequately compensate or mitigate losses for the affected people regardless of their tenure.
3.13   Land Acquisition and Community resources
The total land required for widening and upgrading the project corridor is about 666 ha of which
622 ha will be acquired from private holdings (agricultural land, residential land, commercial land
and residential-cum-commercial land). The other 44 ha will be transferred from government and
forestlands. Families will be affected and displaced due to the acquisition of this land. The land
acquisition plan is available in the Executive Summary Report.
Community resources - 52 schools, 8 police stations, 14 petrol pumps, 14 hospitals, I post office,
and I powerhouse - are likely to be impacted due to the project, but none will be displaced. The
location of some of these amenities along the National Highway is a concern as poorly planned
locations is contributing to congestion of the highway.
3.14 Avoidance and Mitigation of Social Impacts
Fear of future uncertainties, inducement of land prices, inducement of squatter influx, public health
and safety, as well as road safety were social issues identified by PAPs. Precautionary measures -
such as public participation in decision making, PAPs/NGOs involvement in valuing land, use of a
baseline cut off date to establish whether PAPs are eligible for assistance or not - have been or
will be taken to avoid or mitigate such general social impacts.
Several measures have been adopted for minimizing resettlement in different packages of the
project. These include applying alternative alignments, adopting contextually suitable road
cross-sections, lateral shifting of alignments, designing appropriate street furniture and facilities.
The participatory planning with people has helped minimization of losses, saving
residential/commercial structures, cultural properties, and community infrastructure (schools,
- 75 -



colleges, governmental buildings and bus shelters).
Support will be provided to affected or displaced persons and families to compensate for the
losses incurred by them. The project's entitlement framework has been developed. This addresses
the loss of land and other assets, loss of diminished livelihood and indirect impacts. The support
includes replacement costs (specified in a detailed entitlement framework), as well as additional
support for displaced families, both titleholder and vulnerable non-titleholders (includes
indigenous people). The sites for resettlement have yet to be identified. However, according to
Section 8.3 of NHAI's R&R Principles and Policy Framework, the standards of services for the
resettlement sites should be better, and no worse, than those lost.
The Bank does not require provision of assistance to those non-vulnerable people supplementing
their agricultural income from land they hold legally by cultivating other adjacent lands in public
zones that are near enough to use as opportunity (but not law) allows. In specific projects (such
as in the India State Highways program), a distinction has therefore been made between
vulnerable and non-vulnerable encroachers. Non-vulnerable encroachers are asked to vacate the
public property without compensation or assistance, while vulnerable groups among them are
accorded more targeted development assistance.
To assist PAFs regain their previous living standards, income restoration plans have been
developed and included in the RAP. In addition, there are special income restoration plans for
project displaced persons/families, project-affected vulnerable group persons/families and, the
other project-affected person/families needing assistance in skill upgradation or in alternative
vocation. The income restoration plan is available in the Executive Summary report.
3.14   Cultural Sites and Archaeology
Many important cultural and historical settlements lie along the highway, including the cities of
Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, Sarnath and Gaya. There are three archaeological protected
monuments and sites of significance within 1km of the project corridor - Budiya ka Taal and
Rambagh in Package I, and Sher Shah Suri's tomb in Package IVC. No other protected
monuments, sites or cultural relics are close to the highway. Of all the protected monuments, only
Budiya ka Taal is located on the edge of RoW of the project road, but there will be no adverse
physical impact on the protected monument. .
Fifty-five km of the road lies within the Taj Trapezium, although the Taj Mahal itself is on average
about 15km from the road and 9 km at its closest. The Taj Trapezium Zone includes over 40
protected monuments, four of which are listed as World Heritage Site (WHS) namely the Taj
Mahal, the Agra fort and the Fatepur Sikri and a the Bird Sanctuary within the Bharatpur National
Park. The tomb of Akbar (at Sikandra) and Itrnad-ud-Daula's tomb have been proposed for
designation as the World Heritage Site. In addition, there are more than 40 protected monuments
within the trapeziurn. These monuments are not within 2km of the highway and are not directly
impacted. As the proposed project involves the improvement of road geometries and quality of the
pavement, the air quality is expected to improve during the operation stage (in comparison to the'
no-project' scenario). Other heritage sites within the Taj Trapezium Zone are fiurther away from
the project corridor.
- 76 -



Though shrines and other sacred structures are not of any significance at the regional level, they
are important to local communities. Most of these structures are within or adjacent to the existing
RoW. There are a total of 152 temples, 14 mosques, 41 shrines, 2 churches and a Gurudwara
along the Project Road. A number of other community resources also have some cultural
relevance to the community, especially when located close to religious assets. These will be
subjected to varying degrees of impact depending upon their location in relation to the RoW.
Mitigation and enhancement measures have been planned. These will be selected and implemented
on a case-to-case basis.
3.15   Road Safety
Safety of the project road will be substantially improved through widening from two lanes to
divided carriageways with at least four lanes and paved shoulders. Bypasses, service roads, grade
separated intersections, raised embankments and provision for pedestrians and local traffic through
parallel service lanes will be provided to minimize the conflict between local and through traffic
which is so often the cause of accidents. A safety audit will be performed on the engineering
design of all project roads and detailed designs will be modified according to the safety audit
recomnmendations. Furthermore, the project includes a pilot component to address traffic and
safety management comprehensively through a corridor management program. Other actions that
tackle the non engineering aspects of road safety - education, enforcement, institutional
framework for safety management etc. - are being addressed through the Third National Highway
Project.
4.    Implementation and Monitoring
4.1   Implementing Agencies
The NHAI is responsible for the overall implementation of the environmental, social and R&R
measures and will supervise, through Project Management Units (PMUs) established at five
locations along the corridor, the various implementing agencies - contractors, consultants, NGOs,
local government bodies, pollution monitoring agencies and the respective state Motor Vehicles
departments.
The NHAI has demonstrated through its implementation of the Third National Highway Project,
that it has the capacity to execute satisfactorily the necessary safeguards for a World Bank
financed project. The NHAI has created an Environmental and Social Management Unit (ESMU)
at the NHAI HQ, headed by a General Manager, supported by separate environmental and social
managers. At each PMU, environment and social managers have been appointed. District Level
Committees and Grievance Redress Committees in each district have been set up. In addition, to
facilitate implementation of the RAP and the social actions in the EMP, NGOs have been
appointed. Co-ordination and policy support will come from the ESMU at the NHAI Corporate.
- 77 -



4.2     Training
Adequate provision (Rs.2. 1 and Rs 1.16 million for EMP and R&R respectively) is included in the
budget for the cost of training of staff from NGOs, NHAI (HQ and PMU), supervision
consultants, contractors and PAFs. Environmental and social training under GTRIP has been
devised taking into account the training already imparted under TNHP. The environmental
training will use lecture, seminar and site visit formats to cover the topics appropriate for different
target groups and delivery will be timed to ensure that skills and knowledge are raised prior to
work starting. To develop in house expertise of an international standard, some of the
environmental and social staff within NHAI will take formal training overseas lasting several
weeks. There is also provision for broad based awareness raising of social and R&R issues within
NHAI and the road construction industry. A training plan for income restoration of PAPs is
available in the Executive Summary Report.
4.3     Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Seven EMPs, one for each civil works contract package, have been produced, together with a
consolidated EMP for the project as a whole. These contain detailed actions to avoid, mitigate
and manage the negative impacts and to enhance positive impacts on the project corridor. For
each measure, its location, timeframe, imnplementation and supervision responsibilities have been
specified. All the environmental elements have been incorporated in the design and bid
documents.
Overall, the budget for EMP implementation is Rs. 327 million and the summary break-up is
included in Table 2. This is apart from the cost of works that have been internalized in the civil
works of the project.
Table 2: Environmental Budget in the project (in '000 INR)
Budget Head.                 I-A      I-B       T-C 11B          IV-A      IV-C      V-B      Total
Mitigation / Enhancement costs  51,321    49,382    48,088    33,053   47,192    22,335    43,630    295,001
Monitoring Costs              1,549     1,651    1,648    1,807    1,693    1,277     1,777    11,402
Training & Mobilisation Costs*  500       500     500      500      500       500      500      3,500
Advocacy and Policy Planning    218      218      298      204      254       164      270      1,626
Total Amount assigned         53,588    51,751   50,534    35,564    49,639    24,276    46,177   311,529
Contingency @ 5%              2,679     2,588    2,527    1,778    2,482    1,214    2,309     15,576
Total (INR thousand)          56,267    54,339    53,061    37,342    52,120    25,490    48,486    327,106
'The provision for vehicle for monitoring will be made from contingency fimd for the EMP implementation.
4.4     RAP Implementation
The Contract Resettlement and Rehabilitation Officer (CRRO) in each of the PMUs will be
responsible for planning, implementation and monitoring of R&R with assistance from NGOs.
They will ensure that civil works are not started on any road segment before compensation and
assistance to the affected population have been provided in accordance with the NHAI R&R
policy framework. The fund flow mechanism for the compensation and the assistance part of the
budget has been prepared.
The total budget for implementing the R&R component of the project is Rs. 1720 million (US$ 37
million at February 2001 rate of exchange, World Bank Rs 617.8 million and NHAI Rs. 1,102.2
million), which is about 6.6% of the total cost of civil works in the project.
- 78 -



All civil works contracts will include a clause requiring the government to provide at least 30% of
the land free of encumbrance, pay compensation to the affected people, and begin relocation and
rehabilitation of affected people before works are begun.
4.5    Contingency Plans
The project includes an additional contingency provision of $1.5 million for use in (i) better
defining and analyzing unforeseen environmental or social impacts that may arise during
implementation in selected sensitive locations such as the Taj Trapezium Zone and Gautam
Buddha Wildlife Sanctuary and (ii) implementing additional mitigation measures as necessary. For
the Gautam Buddha Sanctuary, a coordination committee is being constituted to oversee
implementation of the EMP for Package V which includes mitigation measures specifically related
to the project area. The coordination committee will recommend whether further mitigation
measures/additional funds will be necessary, and NHAI will decide on fund allocation in
consultation with the Bank.
4.6    Monitoring
To ensure effective implementation, monitoring plans have been included in the EMPs. Detailed
formats for monitoring have been prepared. A reporting system with two important aspects has
been formulated: reporting on progress and environmental compliance monitoring. The reporting
system will operate linearly with the contractor reporting to the Supervision Consultant, who in
tun will report to the PMU. The PMU will be responsible for preparing targets for each of the
identified EMP activities (the outline of such targets has already been prepared). All subsequent
reporting by the contractor will be monitored as per these targets set by the PMU before the
contractors move on to the site. The compliance monitoring and the progress reports on
environmental components will be clubbed together and submitted to the NHAI (through the
PMUs) quarterly during implementation. The operation stage monitoring reports may be annual or
biennial provided the Project Environmental Completion Report shows that the implementation
was satisfactory. Otherwise, the operation stage monitoring reports will have to be prepared as
specified in the said Project Environmental Completion Report.
The Resettlement Action Plan contains indicators and benchmarks for achievement of the
objectives under the resettlement programme. Two levels of monitoring have been identified in the
RAP - intemal (NGOs, Grievance Redressal Committees and Market Value Assessment
Committees) and extemal (third party NGO). The basis for monitoring and evaluation will be
physical indicators, financial indicators, the perception on the RAP and estimation of quality of
life.
- 79 -






MAP SECTION






IBED 31387
80'                            82'                             84"D                             860                             88R
INDIA
GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
igarh                      CHIN A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-j:   NATIONAL HIGHWAY UPGRADING UNDER
-.vz  z; >,   <$  \_8_i                                  NATHE GRAND TRUNK ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
jt,   -:hicigarh  w  .                          E     NATIONAL HIGHWAY UPGRADING UNDER THE            CITIES, BY POPULATION
THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT                   100,000
-t<lltbUh .t f    *Dehro Gun                              'N               %4 -)                           NATIONAL HIGHWAYSALREADY 4-LANED,        Kuiho    100,000-250,000
Yoyqnr ~           3t:'                                 7 ,jOR 4I-ANING IN PROGRESS                                                           GYoya    250,000-5000,000
Sah76npvr.  ~ ~     ~      ~       I"                      ----NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                            Aga3D5-001,0,0
)   p U   t  (f7;,    7>t$>;m fl 8,   t= OTHER ROADS  AgrucloPatna.   1 o,000,000-2,500,000
---RAILROADS
Kolkata   >2,500,000
NJ  h,JS,,an                                     --   - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
n     _             __ MCeTt                @        t                 N    C   fl  A    'erut                                                       Patna  STATE CAPITALS
o   ~~       Moroda;914          *)
\~~  0yt~~~-  ---.,          ft,~~~~~,-                                           0             100           200               -      STATE BOUNDARiES
s      t i   aziabad 5az-ia                                                                                      KILOMETERS                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
bad        B la-Ushob,                arei+y                                                                                p       Lw  Mp D   i _  O
kWW<i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                                  (;>-.FThS , st$1d6 X.
*Aisgorh                     i  5hhh       7        ~          -'                                    Th.2; L--i so   s - po  ho-i To  so  0
-22; 78 7 8061 V . 0 B2^ f  Noihuso t  X     x                 4        '        v                                - K    rh. 
HEnos                                                                                                                       -d/
g    ~ ~~      2>    < ~~Kan                                                                                                                              Bohur
26'                                                                                                                      '        s&.I..r           I26'-
'21                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANG.
-obolpur
.22 '            78~~~                    j        ,82                                i pu)                                                                           K v o p r  88   u  t
JUNE 2001



